FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20120717060700.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 17, 2012, Mattel, Inc. ("Mattel" or "the Company") issued a press release regarding its second quarter 2012 financial results, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. This exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
In its second quarter 2012 press release, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel's business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is provided in Exhibit II to the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
In the same press release described in Item 2.02 above, Mattel also announced that the Company's Board of Directors has declared a quarterly dividend of $0.31 per share on the Company's common stock, to be paid on September 21, 2012 to stockholders of record on August 29, 2012.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 17, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Second Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital Deployment
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., July 17, 2012  Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ: MAT) today reported 2012 second quarter financial results. For the quarter, the Company reported net income of $96.2 million, or $0.28 per share, compared to last year's second quarter net income of $80.5 million, or $0.23 per share.
"In the second quarter, we delivered solid performance as we continued to build momentum with key brands, such as Barbie, Monster High, American Girl and Hot Wheels, as well as the Batman  The Dark Night Rises property, despite a continued cautious global retail environment and a strengthening U.S. dollar," said Bryan G. Stockton, Mattel Chief Executive Officer. "As we look forward, we remain focused on executing our portfolio of strong brands, countries and customers to deliver in the all-important holiday season."
 
 
Mattel Reports Second Quarter 2012 Results/Page 2 2 2
 
Financial Overview
For the quarter, net sales were $1.16 billion, flat compared to last year, including an unfavorable change in currency exchange rates of 4 percentage points. On a regional basis, second quarter gross sales increased 1% in the North American region, which consists of the U.S., Canada and American Girl, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates. For the International region, gross sales decreased 1%, including an unfavorable impact of currency exchange rates of 10 percentage points. Operating income for the quarter was $131.4 million, compared to prior year's operating income for the quarter of $109.3 million.
The Company's debt-to-total-capital ratio was 38.1%. For the first half of the year, the Company's cash and equivalents declined by approximately $997 million, compared with a decline of approximately $863 million in last year's first half.
For the first half of the year, cash flows used for operating activities were approximately $61 million, a decrease of $166 million compared to approximately $227 million of cash flows used for operating activities in the first half of 2011. The decrease is primarily due to lower working capital usage. Cash flows used for investing activities were approximately $816 million, an increase of $772 million, driven primarily by the acquisition of HIT Entertainment. Cash flows used for financing and other activities were approximately $120 million, a decrease of $472 million, compared to approximately $592 million in 2011, primarily due to the 2011 repayments of long-term debt and lower share repurchases.
Capital Deployment
The Company announced today that its Board of Directors declared a third quarter cash dividend of $0.31 per share on the Company's common stock. The dividend will be payable on Sept. 21, 2012, to stockholders of record on Aug. 29, 2012. The dividend is the third of four quarterly dividends the Company expects to pay this year, reflecting an annualized dividend of $1.24 per share, which represents a 35% increase to last year's total dividends. During the second quarter of 2012, the Company repurchased 70,000 shares of its common stock at a cost of approximately $2 million.
Sales by Brand
Mattel Girls and Boys Brands
For the second quarter, worldwide gross sales for Mattel Girls & Boys Brands were $781.6 million, down 1% versus the prior year. Worldwide gross sales for the Barbie brand were up 5%. Worldwide gross sales for Other Girls Brands were up 96%, primarily driven by Monster High. Worldwide gross sales for the Wheels category, which includes the Hot Wheels, Matchbox and Tyco R/C brands, were up 9%, primarily driven by Hot Wheels. Worldwide gross sales for the Entertainment business, which also includes Radica and Games, were down 36%, primarily driven by decreases in the CARS 2 movie property.
 
Mattel Reports Second Quarter 2012 Results/Page 3 3 3
 
Fisher-Price Brands
Second quarter worldwide gross sales for Fisher-Price Brands, which includes the Fisher-Price Core, Fisher-Price Friends and Power Wheels brands, were $407.3 million, or up 2% versus the prior year, driven by strength in Fisher-Price Friends with the addition of the HIT Entertainment portfolio and Disney's Jake and the Never Land Pirates property.
American Girl Brands
Second quarter gross sales for American Girl Brands, which offers American Girl branded products directly to consumers, were $68.7 million, up 3% versus the prior year, primarily driven by strong sales of McKenna, the 2012 Girl of the Year.
Live Webcast
Mattel will webcast its 2012 second quarter financial results conference call at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time today. The conference call will be webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of the Company's corporate website: http://corporate.mattel.com. To listen to the live call, log on to the website at least 15 minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. An archive of the webcast will be available on the company's website for 90 days and may be accessed beginning two hours after the completion of the live call. A telephonic replay of the call will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. Eastern time the morning of the call until Friday, July 20 at midnight Eastern time and may be accessed by dialing + (404) 537-3406. The passcode is 91283277.
Information required by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G, regarding non-GAAP financial measures, as well as other financial and statistical information, will be available at the time of the webcast on the "Investors & Media" section of http://corporate.mattel.com under the sub-headings "Financial Information"  "Earnings Releases."
,
About Mattel:
Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ: MAT) (www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced, Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, Radica and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands, including Thomas & Friends, Little People, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. In 2012, Mattel was named as one of FORTUNE Magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For" for the fifth year in a row. Mattel also is ranked among Corporate Responsibility Magazine's "100 Best Corporate Citizens." With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs approximately 28,000 people in 43 countries and territories and sells products in more than 150 nations. At Mattel, we are "Creating the Future of Play." Follow Mattel on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/mattel.
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to the Company's expected financial performance and expected quarterly cash dividend payments in 2012. These forward-looking statements are based on currently available operating, financial, economic and other information and are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties. A variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, could cause actual future results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Some of these factors are described in the Company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors" section of Mattel's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and Mattel's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for fiscal year 2012, as well as in Mattel's other public statements. Mattel does not update forward-looking statements and expressly disclaims any obligation to do so.
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
 
WORLDWIDE GROSS SALES INFORMATION (Unaudited)
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW DATA (Unaudited)
 
 


