FILE:MAT/MAT-8K-20121116112500.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Retirement of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Appointment of New Chairman of the Board
On November 15, 2012, Robert A. Eckert, Chairman of the Board of Directors (the ""), notified Mattel, Inc. ("") that he would retire from his service as a director and Chairman of the Board, effective December 31, 2012. Mr. Eckert's departure from Mattel's Board will constitute a "retirement" from Mattel's Board for purposes of all Mattel plans, agreements and arrangements to which Mr. Eckert is a party or participant.
Board
Mattel
In connection with Mr. Eckert's retirement, Mattel's Board appointed Bryan G. Stockton, Chief Executive Officer, to succeed Mr. Eckert as the Chairman of the Board, effective as of January 1, 2013. Further, Mr. Stockton's annual target bonus will increase from 130% to 150%, effective as of January 1, 2013.
Change in Position and Retirement of Executive Vice President of Worldwide Operations
On November 15, 2012, Thomas A. Debrowski, Executive Vice President of Worldwide Operations, notified Mattel that, effective as of March 31, 2013, he will cease to serve as Mattel's Executive Vice President of Worldwide Operations. Mr. Debrowski and Mattel have agreed that, as of April 1, 2013, he will serve as an Executive Advisor, a non-officer position, reporting to Mattel's Chief Executive Officer, until his retirement from Mattel, which is anticipated to occur in 2013.
In connection with Mr. Debrowski's change in position, Mattel and Mr. Debrowski will enter into an amendment to the grant agreement for his 2011-2013 long-term incentive program performance-based restricted stock unit award (""). The form amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 (the ""). Pursuant to the Amendment, Mr. Debrowski will be eligible to receive pro-rata time vesting of the LTIP RSU based on the total number of months elapsed from the commencement of the performance period only until March 31, 2013, instead of through the date of his retirement as provided in his original LTIP RSU agreement. The LTIP RSU will continue to be payable at the end of the award's three-year performance period based on Mattel's achievement of the performance measures. Further, pursuant to its authority under Mattel's 2005 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (""), Mattel has determined that Mr. Debrowski will be eligible to receive service credit in the SERP only until March 31, 2013 (rather than until the date of his retirement).
LTIP RSU
Amendment
SERP
While Mr. Debrowski serves as an Executive Advisor, he will be paid a salary not to exceed his current salary; and he will not be eligible for a 2013 plan year bonus under the Mattel Incentive Plan. When Mr. Debrowksi ceases to be an Executive Advisor, his departure from Mattel will constitute a "retirement" from Mattel for purposes of all other Mattel plans, agreements and arrangements to which Mr. Debrowski is a party or participant.
 
On November 16, 2012, Mattel issued a press release regarding the announced retirement of Mr. Eckert and the appointment of Mr. Stockton, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.0 hereto. The exhibit is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Amendment to the Grant Agreement for Long-Term Incentive Program Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units for Senior Executives under the Mattel, Inc. 2010 Equity and Long-Term Compensation Plan (the "") is entered into as of [                    ], 2012, between [                    ] ("") and Mattel, Inc. (the "").
Amendment
Executive
Company
WHEREAS, the Executive and the Company entered into a Grant Agreement (the "") which sets forth the terms of Executive's Long-Term Incentive Program Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units (the "") that were granted on March 22, 2011, under the Mattel, Inc. 2010 Equity and Long-Term Compensation Plan (the "");
Grant Agreement
LTIP RSUs
Plan
WHEREAS, the parties wish to amend the Grant Agreement as set forth herein.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements contained herein, the parties hereby agree as follows effective as of [            , 2012] (the ""). Except as otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Agreement.
Effective Date
1. . The Agreement is hereby amended to the extent necessary to provide the following:
Amendment
1.1 . Section 4(iii) of the Grant Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Section 4(iii) of the Grant Agreement
"iii. In the case of a Termination of Employment (a) by the Company other than for Cause (as defined in Section 4.i, above) or (b) by the Holder for Good Reason (as defined below), the number of Units earned shall be determined as follows: first, the Committee shall determine the number of Units earned based on actual achievement of the Company Performance Measures and TSR following the end of the Performance Cycle; and second, the number of Units so obtained shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the total number of full months elapsed from the first day of the Performance Cycle to the date of the Holder's Termination of Employment and the denominator of which is the total number of months in the Performance Cycle. In the case of a Termination of Employment as a result of the Holder's Retirement, the number of Units earned shall be determined as follows: first, the Committee shall determine the number of Units earned based on actual achievement of the Company Performance Measures and TSR following the end of the Performance Cycle; and second, the number of Units so obtained shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the total number of full months elapsed from the first day of the Performance Cycle to [] and the denominator of which is the total number of months in the Performance Cycle. The number of Units earned pursuant to this Section 4(iii) shall be settled in accordance with Section 7 as for all other holders whose awards are settled on the Settlement Date. For purposes of Sections 4 and 5, the Holder's Termination of Employment shall be considered to be for "Good Reason" if it is as a
date cease to be executive officer
result of the occurrence of any of the following events, provided that the Holder gives the Company written notice of the intent to terminate employment within 90 days of the occurrence of such event and Mattel fails to cure such event (to the extent curable) within 30 days after receiving such notice: (a) without the express written consent of the Holder, any material diminution in the duties, authority or responsibilities of the Holder; (b) any material failure by Mattel to comply with any of the compensation and benefits provisions in any Individual Agreement during the term of Holder's employment with Mattel; (c) any other action or inaction that constitutes a material breach of any Individual Agreement; or (d) without the Holder's consent, any requirement by Mattel that the Holder be based at any office or location other than an office or location in the greater Los Angeles, California area, or at an office other than Mattel's headquarters, except for travel reasonably required in the performance of the Holder's responsibilities. If such event is not cured, the Holder must terminate employment within 120 days following the initial occurrence of the event giving rise to termination for Good Reason. The foregoing definition of "Good Reason" shall apply notwithstanding any contrary definition of "Good Reason" in any Individual Agreement.
2. . Except as set forth herein, all other terms and conditions of the Grant Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Other Terms and Conditions
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment as of the day and year first written above.
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., November 16, 2012  Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ: MAT), the world's largest toy company, today announced that the Board of Directors has named CEO Bryan G. Stockton, 59, as Chairman of the Board effective January 1, 2013. Mr. Stockton succeeds Robert A. Eckert, 58, who has informed the Board of his decision to retire from his service as director and Chairman of the Board effective December 31, 2012. Mr. Stockton will continue to hold the position of chief executive officer, a position held since January 2012.
"During the last year as CEO, Bryan has further demonstrated his leadership abilities as evidenced by the strong year-to-date results. The Board is confident that Bryan will continue to drive the company forward with his keen strategic focus and his experience in growing brands and countries," said Christopher A. Sinclair, lead director for Mattel. "I also want to take this opportunity to thank Bob not only for his leadership as chairman during the last year, but also his last 12 years of service to Mattel."
"It has been my great honor to be a part of Mattel for more than a decade," said Mr. Eckert. "I am confident that this next generation of leaders, with Bryan at the helm, will take Mattel and its industry leading portfolio of brands and countries to even higher levels."
"I want to thank the Board, as well as Bob, for this additional leadership opportunity," said Mr. Stockton. "My experiences over the last 12 years at Mattel have taught me that the combination of Mattel's power brands and our dedicated employees continues to deliver an excellent investment opportunity to Mattel's stockholders. This is an exciting time to be a part of Mattel  whether as an employee, a partner or an investor."
 
mattel.com
CEO BRYAN G. STOCKTON NAMED CHAIRMAN OF MATTEL/Page 2
 
During 2011, Mr. Stockton served as chief operating officer with responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the company, including its business units: Mattel Brands, Fisher-Price, American Girl, and the North American and International divisions, as well as responsibility for the Operations and Corporate Responsibility functions. Mr. Stockton joined Mattel in November 2000 as executive vice president of Business Planning and Development, and was responsible for identifying and developing strategic opportunities for the company, as well as managing all merger and acquisition activity. He gained responsibility for International in 2003, where he began driving strong performance of Mattel's business outside the U.S. He was promoted to president of International in 2007.
Mr. Stockton served on the Board of Bob Evans Farms, Inc. from 2006 to August 2012; held a variety of board leadership positions with the Toy Industry Association, from 2003 to 2012, including two years as chairman; was a board member on the Mattel Children's Hospital UCLA from 2001 to April 2010; and served as Chairman of World Trade Week Southern California for 2003. He currently serves as a member of the President's Advisory Council at Otis College of Art & Design, and was appointed to the UCLA Anderson Board of Visitors effective August 2012 and the 2015 Special Olympics World Summer Games Los Angeles Board of Directors effective June 2012.
In May 2000, Mr. Eckert joined Mattel as chairman and chief executive officer from Kraft Foods, Inc., the largest U.S.-based packaged food company in the world. Under his leadership of discipline and financial focus, Mattel achieved its long-term performance targets to deliver growth, build operating margins, and generate and deploy significant cash flow.
About Mattel:
Mattel, Inc. (NASDAQ: MAT) (www.mattel.com) is the worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and family products. The Mattel family is comprised of such best-selling brands as Barbie, the most popular fashion doll ever introduced, Hot Wheels, Matchbox, American Girl, Radica and Tyco R/C, as well as Fisher-Price brands, including Thomas & Friends, Little People, Power Wheels and a wide array of entertainment-inspired toy lines. In 2012, Mattel was named as one of FORTUNE Magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For" for the fifth year in a row. Mattel also is ranked among Corporate Responsibility Magazine's "100 Best Corporate Citizens." With worldwide headquarters in El Segundo, Calif., Mattel employs approximately 28,000 people in 43 countries and territories and sells products in more than 150 nations. At Mattel, we are "Creating the Future of Play." Follow Mattel on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/mattel.


