ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained herein. The Company is a pharmaceutical services company providing drug distribution and related healthcare services and solutions to its pharmacy, physician, and manufacturer customers, which currently are based primarily in the United States and Canada. The Company is organized based upon the products and services it provides to its customers. Substantially all of the Companys operations are located in the United States and Canada. The Company also has a pharmaceutical packaging operation in the United Kingdom. On July 31, 2007, the Company completed the spin off of its former institutional pharmacy business, PharMerica Long Term Care (Long Term Care). In connection with the spin off, the Company continues to distribute pharmaceuticals to and generate cash flows from the disposed institutional pharmacy business. The historical operating results of Long Term Care are not reported as a discontinued operation of the Company because of the significance of the continuing cash flows resulting from the pharmaceutical distribution agreement entered into between the disposed component and the Company. For periods prior to August 1, 2007, the Companys operating results include Long Term Care. Historically, the Company has evaluated and reported gross profit, operating expense, and operating income margins as a percentage of operating revenue because the gross profit and operating expenses relating to bulk deliveries were negligible, as a majority of this revenue represented direct shipments from manufacturers to customers warehouses. In fiscal 2008, the Company began to transition a significant amount of business previously conducted on a bulk delivery basis to an operating revenue basis as a result of a new contract that the Company signed with its largest customer. As a result, the Companys revenue from bulk deliveries in the future will be insignificant to its total revenue and, therefore, beginning in fiscal 2008, the Company began to report gross profit, operating expense, and operating income margins as a percentage of total revenue (refer to Summary Segment Information table on page 28). Acquisition On October 1, 2007, the Company acquired Bellco Health for a purchase price of $162.2 million, net of $20.7 million of cash acquired. Bellco is a pharmaceutical distributor in the Metro New York City area, where it primarily services independent retail community pharmacies. The acquisition of Bellco expanded the Companys presence in this large community pharmacy market. Nationally, Bellco markets and sells generic pharmaceuticals to individual retail pharmacies, and provides pharmaceutical products and services to dialysis clinics. Bellcos revenues were $2.1 billion in fiscal 2008. Divestiture During fiscal 2008, the Company committed to a plan to divest its workers compensation business, PMSI. In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASBs) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, the Company classified PMSIs assets and liabilities as held for sale in the consolidated balance sheets and classified PMSIs operating results and cash flows as discontinued in the consolidated financial statements for the current and prior fiscal years presented. Previously, PMSI was included in the Companys Other reportable segment. In October 2008, the Company completed the sale of PMSI for approximately $34 million, net of a working capital adjustment, including a $19 million subordinated note payable due from PMSI on the fifth anniversary of the closing date (the maturity date), of which $4 million may be payable in October 2010, if PMSI achieves certain revenue targets with respect to its largest customer. Interest, which accrues at an annual rate of 7%, will be payable in cash on a quarterly basis, if PMSI achieves a defined minimum fixed charge coverage ratio or will be compounded semi annually and paid at maturity. Additionally, if PMSIs annual net revenue exceeds certain 26 Table of Contents thresholds through December 2011, the Company may be entitled to additional payments of up to $10 million under the subordinated note payable due from PMSI on the maturity date of the note. The Company recorded a non cash charge of $225.8 million in fiscal 2008 to reduce the carrying value of PMSI. This charge, which is included in the loss from discontinued operations for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, was comprised of a $199.1 million write off of PMSIs goodwill and a $26.7 million charge to record the Companys loss on the sale of PMSI. The tax benefit recorded in connection with the above charge was minimal as the loss on the sale of PMSI will be treated as a capital loss for income tax purposes, and the Company does not have significant capital gains to offset the capital loss. Reportable Segments The Companys operations are comprised of two reportable segments: Pharmaceutical Distribution and Other. The Other reportable segment includes the operating results of Long Term Care, through the July 31, 2007 spin off date. The operating results of PMSI, which was sold in October 2008, have been reclassified to discontinued operations. Pharmaceutical Distribution During fiscal 2008, the Pharmaceutical Distribution reportable segment was comprised of four operating segments, which included the operations of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation (ABDC), the AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group (ABSG), Bellco Health (Bellco), and the AmerisourceBergen Packaging Group (ABPG). We recently completed our integration of Bellcos separate operations within ABDC and ABSG and as of September 30, 2008, the Pharmaceutical Distribution reportable segment was comprised of three operating segments, which included ABDC, ABSG and ABPG. Servicing both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Pharmaceutical Distribution segments operations provide drug distribution and related services designed to reduce healthcare costs and improve patient outcomes. ABDC distributes a comprehensive offering of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals, over the counter healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, and related services to a wide variety of healthcare providers, including acute care hospitals and health systems, independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, medical clinics, long term care and other alternate site pharmacies and other customers. ABDC also provides pharmacy management, staffing and other consulting services, scalable automated pharmacy dispensing equipment, medication and supply dispensing cabinets, and supply management software to a variety of retail and institutional healthcare providers. ABSG, through a number of individual operating businesses, provides pharmaceutical distribution and other services primarily to physicians who specialize in a variety of disease states, especially oncology, and to other healthcare providers, including dialysis clinics. ABSG also distributes vaccines, other injectables, plasma, and other blood products. In addition, through its specialty services businesses, ABSG provides a number of commercialization services, third party logistics, group purchasing, and other services for biotech and other pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as reimbursement consulting, data analytics, practice management, and physician education. As previously noted, the dialysis related business of Bellco has been integrated within ABSG as of September 30, 2008. ABPG consists of American Health Packaging, Anderson Packaging (Anderson), and Brecon Pharmaceuticals Limited (Brecon). American Health Packaging delivers unit dose, punch card, unit of use, and other packaging solutions to institutional and retail healthcare providers. American Health Packagings largest customer is ABDC, and, as a result, its operations are closely aligned with the operations of ABDC. Anderson is a leading provider of contracted packaging services for pharmaceutical manufacturers. Brecon is a United Kingdom based provider of contract packaging and clinical trials materials services for pharmaceutical manufacturers. Other Prior to its divestiture, Long Term Care was a leading national dispenser of pharmaceutical products and services to patients in long term care and alternate site settings, including skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities and residential living communities. Long Term Cares institutional pharmacy business involved the purchase of prescription and nonprescription pharmaceuticals, principally from our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment, and the dispensing of those products to residents in long term care and alternate site facilities. 27 Table of Contents AmerisourceBergen Corporation Summary Segment Information Total RevenueFiscal year ended September 30, 2008vs.2007Change 2007vs.2006Change 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands) Pharmaceutical Distribution $ 70,189,733 $ 65,340,623 $ 60,437,757 7 % 8 % Other (a) 1,045,663 1,211,548 N/M (14 ) Intersegment eliminations (714,214 ) (836,884 ) N/M (15 ) Total $ 70,189,733 $ 65,672,072 $ 60,812,421 7 % 8 % Operating IncomeFiscal year ended September 30, 2008vs.2007Change 2007vs.2006Change 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands) Pharmaceutical Distribution $ 836,747 $ 729,978 $ 640,938 15 % 14 % Other (a) 24,994 31,187 N/M (20 ) Facility consolidations, employee severance and other (12,377 ) (2,072 ) (20,123 ) 497 (90 ) Gain on antitrust litigation settlements 3,491 35,837 40,882 (90 ) (12 ) Total $ 827,861 $ 788,737 $ 692,884 5 % 14 % Percentages of total revenue: Pharmaceutical Distribution Gross profit 2.91 % 2.87 % 2.85 % Operating expenses 1.72 % 1.75 % 1.79 % Operating income 1.19 % 1.12 % 1.06 % Other (a) Gross profit N/M 29.37 % 29.47 % Operating expenses N/M 26.98 % 26.90 % Operating income N/M 2.39 % 2.57 % AmerisourceBergen Corporation Gross profit 2.92 % 3.38 % 3.49 % Operating expenses 1.74 % 2.18 % 2.35 % Operating income 1.18 % 1.20 % 1.14 % (a) Other represents Long Term Cares operating results for the ten month period ended July 31, 2007 and for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. 28 Table of Contents Year ended September 30, 2008 compared with Year ended September 30, 2007 Consolidated Results Operating revenue of $67.5 billion in fiscal 2008, which excludes bulk deliveries, increased 10% from the prior fiscal year. This increase was due to growth in our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment, particularly within our ABDC operating segment, and the Bellco acquisition. Additionally, in the March 2008 quarter, we began to transition a significant amount of business previously conducted on a bulk delivery basis to an operating revenue basis. This business transition, which contributed 3% of the operating revenue growth for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, resulted from a new contract that we signed with our largest customer. The Company reports as revenue bulk deliveries to customer warehouses, whereby the Company acts as an intermediary in the ordering and delivery of pharmaceutical products. Bulk delivery transactions are arranged by the Company at the express direction of the customer, and involve either shipments from the supplier directly to customers warehouse sites (i.e., drop shipment) or shipments from the supplier to the Company for immediate shipment to the customers warehouse sites (i.e., cross dock shipment). Bulk deliveries of $2.7 billion in fiscal 2008 decreased 39% from the prior fiscal year. This decline was due to the customer transition discussed above. The Company is a principal to these transactions because it is the primary obligor and has the ultimate responsibility for fulfillment and acceptability of the products purchased, and bears full risk of delivery and loss for products, whether the products are drop shipped or shipped cross dock. The Company also bears full credit risk associated with the creditworthiness of any bulk delivery customer. As a result, and in accordance with the Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 99 19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent, the Company records bulk deliveries to customer warehouses as gross revenues. Due to the insignificant service fees generated from bulk deliveries, fluctuations in volume have no significant impact on operating margins. However, revenue from bulk deliveries has a positive impact on our cash flows due to favorable timing between the customer payments to us and payments by us to our suppliers. Total revenue of $70.2 billion in fiscal 2008 increased 7% from the prior fiscal year. This increase was driven by the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment, which received a 3% contribution from the Bellco acquisition. Gross profit of $2.0 billion in fiscal 2008 decreased 8% from the prior fiscal year. This decline was related to the Other segment, as prior years consolidated results included $307.1 million of gross profit from the operating results of Long Term Care through the July 31 spin off date. The Other segment gross profit decrease was offset, in part, by the 9% increase in the Pharmaceutical Distribution Segments gross profit for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, primarily due to revenue growth, including the acquisition of Bellco. In fiscal 2008 and 2007, we recognized gains of $3.5 million and $35.8 million, respectively, from antitrust litigation settlements with pharmaceutical manufacturers. These gains, which are net of attorney fees and estimated payments due to other parties, were recorded as reductions to cost of goods sold and contributed 0.2% and 1.6% of gross profit in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company is unable to estimate future gains, if any, it will recognize as a result of antitrust settlements (see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements). As a percentage of total revenue, gross profit in fiscal 2008 decreased 46 basis points from the prior fiscal year, which included the operating results of Long Term Care. Distribution, selling and administrative expenses, depreciation and amortization (DSAD&A) of $1.2 billion in fiscal 2008 decreased 16% from the prior fiscal year. This decline was related to the Other segment, as prior years consolidated results included $282.1 million of DSAD&A from the operating results of Long Term Care and was partially offset by operating expenses of our recent acquisitions, primarily those of Bellco. 29 Table of Contents The following table illustrates the charges incurred relating to facility consolidations, employee severance and other for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2008 and 2007 (in thousands): 2008 2007 Facility consolidations and employee severance $ 9,741 $ (5,863 ) Information technology transition costs 1,679 Costs relating to business divestitures 2,636 9,335 Gain on sale of assets (3,079 ) Total facility consolidations, employee severance and other $ 12,377 $ 2,072 In fiscal 2008, the Company announced a more streamlined organizational structure and introduced an initiative (cE2) designed to drive increased customer efficiency and cost effectiveness. In connection with these efforts, the Company reduced various operating costs and terminated certain positions. The Company expects to incur the majority of employee severance costs related to the above efforts through December 31, 2008. In fiscal 2008, the Company terminated approximately 130 employees and incurred $10.0 million of employee severance costs, relating to the aforementioned efforts. In fiscal 2007, the Company completed its integration plan to consolidate its distribution network and eliminate duplicative administrative functions. The plan included building six new facilities, closing 31 facilities, and outsourcing a significant amount of its information technology activities. In fiscal 2008, the Company reversed $1.0 million of employee severance charges previously estimated and recorded related to this integration plan. In fiscal 2006, the Company incurred a charge of $13.9 million for an increase in a compensation accrual due to an adverse decision in an employment related dispute with a former Bergen Brunswig chief executive officer whose employment was terminated in 1999. In October 2007, the Company received a favorable ruling from a California appellate court reversing certain portions of the prior adverse decision. As a result, the Company reduced its liability in fiscal 2007 to the Bergen Brunswig chief executive officer by $10.4 million (see Bergen Brunswig Matter under Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements). The fiscal 2007 compensation expense reduction was recorded as a component of facility consolidations and employee severance. Costs related to business divestitures in fiscal 2008 and 2007 related to PMSI and the Long Term Care spin off, respectively. In fiscal 2007, the Company recognized a $3.1 million gain relating to the sale of certain retail pharmacy assets of its former Long Term Care business. The Company paid a total of $6.8 million and $20.7 million for employee severance, lease cancellation and other costs in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. Remaining unpaid amounts of $21.4 million for employee severance, lease cancellation and other costs are included in accrued expenses and other in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2008. Most employees receive their severance benefits over a period of time, generally not in excess of 12 months, while others may receive a lump sum payment. Operating income of $827.9 million in fiscal 2008 increased 5% from the prior fiscal year due to the 15% or $106.8 million increase in the Pharmaceutical Distribution segments operating income, which was offset, in part, by a decrease of $32.3 million in gains from antitrust litigation settlements, and an increase of $10.3 million in facility consolidation, employee severance and other costs. Additionally, the prior fiscal year benefited from a $25.0 million contribution from Long Term Care, prior to its July 2007 spin off. As a percentage of total revenue, operating income in fiscal 2008 decreased 2 basis points from the prior fiscal year despite 30 Table of Contents Pharmaceutical Distributions operating income as a percentage of total revenue increasing by 7 basis points. The costs of facility consolidations, employee severance and other, less the gain on antitrust litigation settlements, decreased operating income by $8.9 million in fiscal 2008 and reduced operating income as a percentage of total revenue by 1 basis point. The gain on antitrust litigation settlements, less the costs of facility consolidations, employee severance and other, contributed $33.8 million to operating income in fiscal 2007 and increased operating income as a percentage of total revenue by 5 basis points. Long Term Cares operating income in fiscal 2007 increased operating income as a percentage of total revenue by 4 basis points. Other loss of $2.0 million and $3.0 million in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily related to other than temporary impairment losses incurred with respect to equity investments. Interest expense, interest income, and their respective weighted average interest rates in fiscal 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in thousands): 2008 2007 Amount Weighted AverageInterest Rate Amount Weighted AverageInterest Rate Interest expense $ 75,099 5.48% $ 75,661 5.65% Interest income (10,603 ) 3.33% (43,417 ) 4.26% Interest expense, net $ 64,496 $ 32,244 Interest expense was relatively consistent when compared to the prior fiscal year as an increase of $85.2 million in average borrowings was offset by the decline in the weighted average interest rate. Interest income decreased substantially from the prior fiscal year primarily due to a decline of average invested cash and short term investments from $976.2 million during the prior fiscal year to $309.5 million during fiscal 2008. The decrease in invested cash and short term investments from the prior fiscal year was primarily due to our use of cash for share repurchases, acquisitions, and capital expenditures, all of which, in the aggregate, exceeded our net cash provided by operating activities since the prior fiscal year. Our net interest expense in future periods may vary significantly depending upon our borrowings, interest rates, and strategic decisions to deploy our invested cash. Income tax expense reflects an effective income tax rate of 38.4%, versus 37.0% in the prior fiscal year. The increase in the effective tax rate from the prior fiscal year was primarily due to the company having benefited less in the current year from tax free investment income. We expect our effective tax rate going forward will approximate the fiscal 2008 tax rate. We adopted FASBs Financial Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, effective October 1, 2007. The cumulative effect of adoption of this interpretation resulted in a $9.3 million reduction in retained earnings. The adoption of the provisions of FIN No. 48 did not have a significant impact on our effective tax rate in fiscal 2008. Income from continuing operations of $469.1 million in fiscal 2008 decreased 1% from $474.8 million in the prior fiscal year. The 5% increase in 2008 operating income was offset by the increase in net interest expense and the increase in the effective income tax rate. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.89 increased 14% from $2.53 per share in the prior fiscal year. The difference between diluted earnings per share growth and the decline in income from continuing operations was due to the 14% reduction in weighted average common shares outstanding from purchases of our common stock in connection with our stock repurchase program (see Liquidity and Capital Resources), net of the impact of stock option exercises. The costs of facility consolidations, employee severance and other, less the gain on antitrust litigation settlements decreased income from continuing operations by $5.5 million and decreased diluted earnings per share by $0.03 in fiscal 2008. The gain on antitrust litigation settlements less the costs of facility consolidations, employee severance and other 31 Table of Contents contributed $17.0 million to income from continuing operations and $0.09 to diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2007. Additionally, the inclusion of Long Term Cares operating results in fiscal 2007 increased diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by $0.08. The loss from discontinued operations of $218.5 million, net of income taxes, relates to the PMSI business, which was sold in October 2008. The loss from discontinued operations in fiscal 2008 includes a $224.8 million charge, net of income taxes, recorded to reduce the carrying value of PMSI. Loss from discontinued operations of $5.6 million, net of income taxes, in fiscal 2007 included a $24.6 million charge, net of income taxes, incurred by the Company related to an adverse court ruling with respect to a contingent purchase price adjustment in connection with the 2003 acquisition of Bridge Medical, Inc. (Bridge), as previously discussed in Legal Proceedings under Item 3. Substantially all of the assets of the Bridge business were sold in July 2005. The aforementioned charge in fiscal 2007 was substantially offset by income from discontinued operations relating to the PMSI business. Segment Information Pharmaceutical Distribution Pharmaceutical Distribution total revenue of $70.2 billion in fiscal 2008 increased 7% from the prior fiscal year primarily due to the 5% revenue growth of ABDC and the acquisition of Bellco, which contributed 3% of the total revenue increase. During fiscal 2008, 68% of total revenue was from sales to institutional customers and 32% was from sales to retail customers; this compared to a customer mix in the prior fiscal year of 64% institutional and 36% retail. In comparison with the prior fiscal year results, sales to institutional customers increased 15% primarily due to the acquisition of Bellco (the revenue of which is heavily weighted towards institutional customers) and the strong growth of certain large customers. Sales to retail customers decreased 5% primarily due to our decision not to renew a contract, effective January 2007, with a large retail customer and the July 1, 2008 loss of certain business totaling approximately $3.0 billion of annual revenue from a large retail drug chain customer. ABDCs total revenue (excluding Bellco) increased by 5% in fiscal 2008 in comparison to the prior fiscal year. This revenue growth was primarily due to the increase in sales to certain of our large institutional customers, offset, in part, by the decline in retail customer revenue, as discussed above. ABSGs total revenue (excluding Bellco) of $13.0 billion in fiscal 2008 increased 3% compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to strong double digit growth of its non oncology distribution businesses. Oncology distributions revenue, which represents approximately 60% of ABSGs total revenue, was flat compared to the prior fiscal year. ABSGs revenue growth was affected primarily by declining anemia drug sales and by one of its large customers for oncology drugs being acquired by a competitor in October 2007. The former customer contributed approximately $800 million to ABSGs revenue in fiscal 2007. The majority of ABSGs revenue is generated from the distribution of pharmaceuticals, primarily injectibles, to physicians who specialize in a variety of disease states, especially oncology. ABSG also distributes vaccines, plasma, and other blood products. ABSGs business may be adversely impacted in the future by changes in medical guidelines and the Medicare reimbursement rates for certain pharmaceuticals, including oncology drugs administered by physicians and anemia drugs. Since ABSG provides a number of services to or through physicians, any changes to this service channel could result in slower or reduced growth in revenues. Revenue related to the distribution of anemia related products, which represented approximately 5.8% of Pharmaceutical Distributions total revenue in fiscal 2008, decreased approximately 23% from the prior fiscal year. The decline in sales of anemia related products since the second half of fiscal 2007 has been most pronounced in the use of these products for cancer treatment. Sales of oncology anemia related products represented approximately 2.2% of total revenue in fiscal 2008 and decreased approximately 32% from the prior fiscal year. Several developments contributed to the decline in sales of anemia drugs, including expanded 32 Table of Contents warning and other product safety labeling requirements, more restrictive federal policies governing Medicare reimbursement for the use of these drugs to treat oncology patients with kidney failure and dialysis, and changes in regulatory and clinical medical guidelines for recommended dosage and use. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has announced that it is reviewing new clinical study data concerning the possible risks associated with erythropoiesis stimulating agents and may take additional action with regard to these drugs. In March 2008, manufacturers of certain anemia products announced further labeling revisions to reflect additional safety information. Moreover, the FDA announced on July 30, 2008 that it is ordering additional safety labeling changes related to the use of the drugs in the treatment of certain cancers. As a result, we expect oncology related anemia drug sales to decline further in fiscal 2009 from our fiscal 2008 total. CMS has indicated that it may impose additional restrictions on Medicare coverage in the future. Also, on July 30, 2008, CMS announced it is considering a review of national Medicare coverage policy for these drugs for patients who have cancer or pre dialysis chronic kidney disease. Further changes in medical guidelines for anemia drugs may impact the availability and extent of reimbursement for these drugs from third party payors, including federal and state governments and private insurance plans. Our future revenue growth rate and or profitability may continue to be impacted by any future reductions in reimbursement for anemia drugs or changes that limit the dosage and or use of anemia drugs. We currently expect that our total revenue growth in fiscal 2009 will be between 1% and 3%, as this range reflects market growth of 1% 2% as estimated by industry data firm IMS Healthcare, Inc., (IMS), the expected strong growth of certain of our large institutional customers, primarily within ABDC, offset in part by the loss of certain business with a national retail chain customer to a competitor, effective July 1, 2008. Sales to this chain customer approximated $3.0 billion of total revenue in fiscal 2008. The Pharmaceutical Distribution segments expected growth largely reflects U.S. pharmaceutical industry conditions, including increases in prescription drug utilization, the introduction of new products, and higher pharmaceutical prices offset, in part, by the increased use of lower priced generics. The segments growth has also been impacted by industry competition and changes in customer mix. Industry sales in the United States, as estimated by IMS, are expected to grow between 1% and 2% in 2008 and 2009 and between 3% and 6% during the five year period ending 2012. IMS also indicated that certain sectors of the market, such as biotechnology and other specialty and generic pharmaceuticals would grow faster than the overall market. The Pharmaceutical Distribution segments future revenue growth will continue to be affected by various factors such as: competition within the industry, customer consolidation, changes in pharmaceutical manufacturer pricing and distribution policies and practices, increased downward pressure on reimbursement rates, changes in Federal government rules and regulations, industry growth trends, such as the likely increase in the number of generic drugs that will be available over the next few years as a result of the expiration of certain drug patents held by brand manufacturers, and general economic conditions. Pharmaceutical Distribution gross profit of $2.0 billion in fiscal 2008 increased $167.4 million or 9% from the prior fiscal year. The increase in gross profit was primarily due to revenue growth, growth of our generic programs, the acquisition of Bellco, and strong brand name manufacturer price appreciation. As a percentage of total revenue, gross profit in fiscal 2008 and 2007 was 2.91% and 2.87%, respectively. Fiscal 2008 gross profit benefited from gains of $13.2 million relating to favorable litigation settlements with a former customer (an independent retail group purchasing organization) and a major competitor and a $8.6 million settlement of disputed fees with a supplier, and was offset, in part, by an $8.4 million inventory write down of certain pharmacy dispensing equipment. Fiscal 2007 gross profit was impacted by ABSGs $27.8 million charge relating to the write down of tetanus diphtheria vaccine inventory to its estimated net realizable value (see MBL Matter under Note 13 of consolidated financial statements). Our cost of goods sold includes a last in, first out (LIFO) provision that is affected by changes in inventory quantities, product mix, and manufacturer pricing practices, which may be impacted by market and other external influences. We recorded a LIFO charge of $21.1 million and $2.2 million in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. The fiscal 2008 LIFO charge reflects greater brand name supplier price inflation, which more than offset the impact of price deflation of generic drugs. During fiscal 2007, inventory declines resulted in liquidation 33 Table of Contents of LIFO layers carried at lower costs prevailing in the prior fiscal year. The effect of the liquidation in fiscal 2007 was to decrease cost of goods sold by $7.2 million. Pharmaceutical Distribution operating expenses of $1.2 billion in fiscal 2008 increased $60.7 million or 5% from the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily related to the operating expenses of our recent acquisitions, primarily those of Bellco. Additionally, operating expenses in fiscal 2008 were impacted by ABDC impairment charges related to capitalized equipment and software development costs totaling $10.8 million, primarily due to ABDCs decision to abandon the use of certain software which will be replaced in connection with our Business Transformation project. Operating expenses in fiscal 2008 were also impacted by a $5.3 million write down of intangible assets relating to certain smaller business units. As a percentage of total revenue, operating expenses in fiscal 2008 decreased 3 basis points from the prior fiscal year due to improvements in operating leverage, primarily in ABDC, where operating expenses declined despite an increase in total revenue, due to a more streamlined organizational structure within ABDC and ABSG and the cost savings achieved resulting from our cE2 initiative. Pharmaceutical Distribution operating income of $836.7 million in fiscal 2008 increased 15% from the prior fiscal year as the increase in gross profit exceeded the increase in operating expenses. As a percentage of total revenue, operating income in fiscal 2008 increased 7 basis points from the prior fiscal year due to the improvements in the gross profit and operating expense margins. Other The Other reportable segment includes the operating results of Long Term Care, through the July 31, 2007 spin off date. The operating results of PMSI, which was sold in October 2008, have been reclassified to discontinued operations. Intersegment Eliminations These amounts represent the elimination of the Pharmaceutical Distribution segments sales to the Other segment. ABDC was the principal supplier of pharmaceuticals to the Other segment. Year ended September 30, 2007 compared with Year ended September 30, 2006 Consolidated Results Operating revenue of $61.3 billion in fiscal 2007, which excludes bulk deliveries, increased 9% from the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily due to increases in operating revenue in our ABDC and ABSG operating segments, both of which are included in the Pharmaceutical Distribution reportable segment. Our acquisitions contributed 1% of the operating revenue growth in fiscal 2007. The Company reports as revenue bulk deliveries to customer warehouses, whereby the Company acts as an intermediary in the ordering and delivery of pharmaceutical products. Bulk deliveries of $4.4 billion in fiscal 2007 decreased 3% from the prior fiscal year. Revenue relating to bulk deliveries fluctuates primarily due to changes in demand from the Companys largest bulk customer. Due to the insignificant service fees generated from bulk deliveries, fluctuations in volume have no significant impact on operating margins. However, revenue from bulk deliveries has a positive impact on the Companys cash flows due to favorable timing between the customer payments to the Company and payments by the Company to its suppliers. Total revenue of $65.7 billion in fiscal 2007 increased 8% from the prior fiscal year. This increase was due to growth in our Pharmaceutical distribution segment. 34 Table of Contents Gross profit of $2.2 billion in fiscal 2007 increased 5% from the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily due to the increase in Pharmaceutical Distribution operating revenue, an increase in compensation under its fee for service agreements and the growth of its generic programs, offset in part by a $27.8 million charge incurred by ABSG relating to tetanus diphtheria vaccine inventory and the decline in gross profit of the Other Segment. During fiscal 2007 and 2006, the Company recognized gains of $35.8 million and $40.9 million, respectively, from antitrust litigation settlements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, which represented 1.6% and 1.9% of gross profit, respectively. DSAD&A of $1.4 billion in fiscal 2007 increased 1% from the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily related to our operating revenue growth, operating expenses of our acquired companies, an increase in bad debt expense of $11.0 million and an increase in share based compensation of $8.1 million, all of which was partially offset by a decline in DSAD&A of the Other Segment, and a decline in employee incentive compensation. As a percentage of total revenue, DSAD&A in fiscal 2007 decreased 14 basis points from the prior fiscal year primarily due to the decline in DSAD&A of the Other Segment resulting from the divestiture of the Long Term Care business. The following table illustrates the charges incurred by the Company relating to facility consolidations, employee severance and other for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 (in thousands): 2007 2006 Facility consolidations and employee severance $ (5,863 ) $ 4,271 Information technology transition costs 1,679 9,218 Costs relating to the Long Term Care transaction 9,335 6,634 Gain on sale of assets (3,079 ) Total facility consolidations, employee severance and other $ 2,072 $ 20,123 In fiscal 2007, the Company completed its integration plan to consolidate its distribution network and eliminate duplicative administrative functions. The plan included building six new facilities, closing 31 facilities and outsourcing a significant amount of its information technology activities. In fiscal 2006, the Company incurred a charge of $13.9 million for an increase in a compensation accrual due to an adverse decision in an employment related dispute with a former Bergen Brunswig chief executive officer whose employment was terminated in 1999. In October 2007, the Company received a favorable ruling from a California appellate court reversing certain portions of the prior adverse decision. As a result, the Company reduced its liability in fiscal 2007 to the Bergen Brunswig chief executive officer by $10.4 million (see Bergen Brunswig Matter under Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements). The fiscal 2006 compensation expense and the fiscal 2007 reduction thereof have been recorded as a component of facility consolidations and employee severance. In fiscal 2007, the Company recognized a $3.1 million gain relating to the sale of certain retail pharmacy assets of its former Long Term Care business. In fiscal 2006, the Company realized a $17.3 million gain from the sale of the former Bergen Brunswig headquarters building in Orange, California. This gain was recorded as a component of the facility consolidations and employee severance. The Company paid a total of $20.7 million and $20.6 million for employee severance, lease cancellation and other costs during fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively, related to the integration plan. Remaining unpaid amounts of $15.9 million for employee severance, lease cancellation, and other costs are included in accrued expenses and other in the accompanying consolidation balance sheet at September 30, 2007. Most employees receive their severance benefits over a period of time, generally not in excess of 12 months, while others may receive a lump sum payment. 35 Table of Contents Operating income of $788.7 million in fiscal 2007 increased 14% from the prior fiscal year due to the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment, offset in part, by the Other segment. As a percentage of total revenue, operating income in fiscal 2007 increased 6 basis points from the prior fiscal year due to the improvement in Pharmaceutical Distributions operating income margin. The gain on antitrust litigation settlements, less the costs of facility consolidations, employee severance and other contributed $33.8 million to operating income in fiscal 2007 and contributed 5 basis points to operating income as a percentage of total revenue. The gain on antitrust litigation settlements, less the costs of facility consolidations, employee severance and other contributed $20.8 million to operating income in fiscal 2006 and contributed 3 basis points to operating income as a percentage of total revenue. Other loss of $3.0 million in fiscal 2007 primarily related to other than temporary impairment losses incurred with respect to equity investments. Other income of $4.4 million in fiscal 2006 primarily included a $3.4 million gain resulting from an eminent domain settlement and a $3.1 million gain on the sale of an equity investment, offset in part, by losses incurred relating to another equity investment. Interest expense, interest income and their respective weighted average interest rates in fiscal 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in thousands): 2007 2006 Amount Weighted AverageInterest Rate Amount Weighted AverageInterest Rate Interest expense $ 75,661 5.65 % $ 65,874 5.64 % Interest income (43,417 ) 4.26 % (53,410 ) 4.03 % Interest expense, net $ 32,244 $ 12,464 Interest expense increased from the prior fiscal year primarily due to an increase of $114.3 million in average borrowings primarily related to the Companys Canadian operations. Interest income decreased from the prior fiscal year due to a decline in average invested cash and short term investments of $313.6 million from the prior fiscal year. The decrease in invested cash and short term investments from the prior fiscal year was primarily related to the Companys $1.4 billion of purchases of its common stock in fiscal 2007, offset largely by $1.2 billion of net cash provided by operating activities. Income tax expense reflects an effective income tax rate of 37.0%, versus 36.6% in the prior fiscal year. The tax rate for fiscal 2007 was greater than the tax rate from the prior fiscal year, which benefited from more favorable tax adjustments than fiscal 2007 and a larger portion of the Companys invested cash in tax free investments. Income from continuing operations of $474.8 million in fiscal 2007 increased 9% from the prior fiscal year due to the increase in operating income, partially offset by the increase in interest expense. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.53 in fiscal 2007 increased 21% from $2.09 per diluted share in the prior fiscal year. The difference between diluted earnings per share growth and the increase in income from continuing operations was due to the 9% reduction in weighted average common shares outstanding from purchases of our common stock in connection with our stock repurchase program (see Liquidity and Capital Resources), net of the impact of stock option exercises. The divested Long Term Care business contributed $0.08 and $0.10 of diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. The gain on antitrust litigation settlements less the costs of facility consolidations, employee severance and other contributed $17.0 million to income from continuing operations and $0.09 to diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2007. The gain on antitrust litigation settlements, the eminent domain settlement, the sale of an equity investment and the favorable tax adjustments, less the costs of facility consolidations, employee severance and other contributed $23.2 million to income from continuing operations and $0.11 to diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2006. 36 Table of Contents Loss from discontinued operations of $5.6 million, net of income taxes, in fiscal 2007, included a $24.6 million charge, net of income taxes, incurred by the Company related to an adverse court ruling with respect to a contingent purchase price adjustment in connection with the 2003 acquisition of Bridge. Substantially all of the assets of the Bridge business were sold in July 2005. The aforementioned charge was substantially offset by income from discontinued operations of the PMSI business. Income from discontinued operations of $33.3 million, net of income taxes, in fiscal 2006 primarily related to the PMSI business. Segment Information Pharmaceutical Distribution Pharmaceutical Distribution total revenue of $65.3 billion in fiscal 2007 increased 8% from the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily driven by the strong, above market, 27% revenue growth of ABSG, principally in its distribution businesses. ABDC grew its total revenue by 4% in comparison to the prior fiscal year. During fiscal 2007, 64% of total revenue was from sales to institutional customers and 36% was from sales to retail customers; this compared to a customer mix in the prior fiscal year of 62% institutional and 38% retail. In comparison with the prior year results, sales to institutional customers increased 10% primarily due to the strong growth of the specialty pharmaceutical business. Sales to retail customers increased 5% as growth in retail chain sales was offset, in part, by our decision to discontinue servicing the large lower margin customer discussed below. The ABDC total revenue growth rate in fiscal 2007 benefited from increased sales to certain of its large customers and the 1% revenue contribution resulting from the full year impact of its 2006 Canadian acquisitions. ABDCs total revenue growth rate was negatively impacted by the Companys decision not to renew a contract, effective January 2007, with a large, low margin customer that contributed approximately $1.0 billion of total revenue for ABDC in fiscal 2006 and the July 2006 loss of two customer accounts that totaled $1.2 billion of revenue in fiscal 2006. These customer accounts transitioned to another distributor after they were acquired by a company supplied by that distributor. ABSG grew at a rate in excess of overall pharmaceutical market growth. ABSGs total revenue of $12.6 billion in fiscal 2007 grew 27% from the prior fiscal year. The majority of this groups revenue is generated from the distribution of pharmaceuticals to physicians who specialize in a variety of disease states, especially oncology. ABSGs oncology business continued to outperform the market and was ABSGs most significant contributor to revenue growth. During fiscal 2007, the oncology business benefited from a semi exclusive distribution agreement that it signed with a large biotechnology manufacturer during the second half of fiscal 2006 and ABSGs Besse Medical business experienced strong growth in fiscal 2007 primarily arising from the distribution of a new physician administered ophthalmology product, which was introduced in the second half of fiscal 2006. ABSG also distributes vaccines, plasma and other blood products. Approximately 6% of the Companys total revenue in fiscal 2007 related to the distribution of anemia related products, which are distributed by both ABDC and ABSG. Several developments contributed to the decline in sales of anemia drugs during the second half of fiscal 2007, including the decision in March 2007 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to require an expanded warning label on these drugs, CMSs review of reimbursement policies for these drugs and restrictions on recommended dosage or use. In July 2007, CMS issued new, more restrictive policies regarding Medicare coverage of anemia drugs used in the treatment of oncology patients and for kidney failure and dialysis. On November 8, 2007, the FDA announced revised boxed warnings and other safety related product labeling changes for these drugs addressing the risks posed to patients with cancer or chronic kidney failure. CMS also has indicated that it may impose additional restrictions on Medicare coverage in the future. Further changes in medical guidelines for anemia drugs may impact the availability and extent of reimbursement for these drugs from third party payers, including federal and state governments and private insurance plans. 37 Table of Contents This segments growth largely reflects U.S. pharmaceutical industry conditions, including increases in prescription drug utilization, the introduction of new products, and higher pharmaceutical prices offset, in part, by the increased use of lower priced generics. The segments growth has also been impacted by industry competition and changes in customer mix. Pharmaceutical Distribution gross profit of $1.9 billion in fiscal 2007 increased 9% from the prior fiscal year. The increase in gross profit was primarily due to the increase in total revenue, an increase in compensation under our fee for service agreements, and the growth of our generic programs offset in part by competitive pricing pressures and ABSGs $27.8 million charge relating to the write down of tetanus diphtheria vaccine inventory to its estimated net realizable value (see MBL Matter under Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements). As a percentage of total revenue, gross profit in fiscal 2007 increased 2 basis points from the prior fiscal year. The Companys cost of goods sold includes a last in, first out (LIFO) provision that is affected by changes in inventory quantities, product mix, and manufacturer pricing practices, which may be impacted by market and other external influences. During fiscal 2007, inventory declines resulted in liquidation of LIFO layers carried at lower costs prevailing in the prior year. The effect of the liquidation in fiscal 2007 was to decrease cost of goods sold by $7.2 million. Pharmaceutical Distribution operating expenses of $1.1 billion in fiscal 2007 increased 6% from the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily related to our total revenue growth, operating expenses of our acquired companies, an increase in bad debt expense of $8.6 million primarily related to the bankruptcy of a retail chain customer in our West Region and an increase in share based compensation, and was partially offset by a decrease in employee incentive compensation. As a percentage of total revenue, operating expenses in fiscal 2007 decreased 4 basis points from the prior fiscal year due to economies of scale realized as a result of the increase in operating revenue, productivity gains achieved throughout the Companys distribution network as a result of our Optimiz&reg; program and a decrease in employee incentive compensation, and was partially offset by the increase in bad debt expense and the operating costs of our recently acquired companies. Pharmaceutical Distribution operating income of $730.0 million in fiscal 2007 increased 14% from the prior fiscal year as the increase in gross profit exceeded the increase in operating expenses. As a percentage of total revenue, operating income in fiscal 2007 increased 6 basis points from the prior fiscal year due to the improvement in the operating expense margin. Other The Other reportable segment includes the operating results of Long Term Care, through the July 31, 2007 spin off date. The operating results of PMSI, which was sold in October 2008, have been reclassified to discontinued operations. Intersegment Eliminations These amounts represent the elimination of the Pharmaceutical Distribution segments sales to the Other segment. ABDC was the principal supplier of pharmaceuticals to the Other segment. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies are those policies which involve accounting estimates and assumptions that can have a material impact on the Companys financial position and results of operations and require the use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and managements judgment. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Below are those policies applied in preparing the Companys financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. For a complete list of significant accounting policies, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. 38 Table of Contents Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Trade receivables are primarily comprised of amounts owed to the Company for its pharmaceutical distribution and services activities and are presented net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and a reserve for customer sales returns. In determining the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts, the Company considers a combination of factors, such as the aging of trade receivables, industry trends, its customers financial strength, credit standing, and payment and default history. Changes in the aforementioned factors, among others, may lead to adjustments in the Companys allowance for doubtful accounts. The calculation of the required allowance requires judgment by Company management as to the impact of these and other factors on the ultimate realization of its trade receivables. Each of the Companys business units performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers financial condition and maintains reserves for probable bad debt losses based on historical experience and for specific credit problems when they arise. The Company writes off balances against the reserves when collectability is deemed remote. Each business unit performs formal documented reviews of the allowance at least quarterly and the Companys largest business units perform such reviews monthly. There were no significant changes to this process during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and bad debt expense was computed in a consistent manner during these periods. The bad debt expense for any period presented is equal to the changes in the period end allowance for doubtful accounts, net of write offs, recoveries and other adjustments. Schedule II of this Form 10 K sets forth a rollforward of the allowance for doubtful accounts. Bad debt expense for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $27.6 million, $48.5 million and $37.5 million, respectively. Long Term Cares bad debt expense, which is included in the above amounts, for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 was $17.6 million and $15.2 million, respectively. The bankruptcy of a regional chain customer in ABDCs West Region accounted for a significant portion of the increase in bad debt expense from fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2007. An increase or decrease of 0.1% in the 2008 allowance as a percentage of trade receivables would result in an increase or decrease in the provision on accounts receivable of approximately $3.3 million. Supplier Reserves The Company establishes reserves against amounts due from its suppliers relating to various price and rebate incentives, including deductions or billings taken against payments otherwise due them from the Company. These reserve estimates are established based on the judgment of Company management after carefully considering the status of current outstanding claims, historical experience with the suppliers, the specific incentive programs and any other pertinent information available to the Company. The Company evaluates the amounts due from its suppliers on a continual basis and adjusts the reserve estimates when appropriate based on changes in factual circumstances. An increase or decrease of 0.1% in the 2008 supplier reserve balances as a percentage of trade payables would result in an increase or decrease in cost of goods sold by approximately $7.3 million. The ultimate outcome of any outstanding claim may be different from the Companys estimate. Loss Contingencies The Company accrues for loss contingencies related to litigation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. An estimated loss contingency is accrued in the Companys consolidated financial statements if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. The Company regularly reviews loss contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. The amount of the actual loss may differ significantly from these estimates. 39 Table of Contents Merchandise Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost for approximately 78% and 79% of the Companys inventories at September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively, have been determined using the last in, first out (LIFO) method. If the Company had used the first in, first out (FIFO) method of inventory valuation, which approximates current replacement cost, inventories would have been approximately $176.0 million and $154.9 million higher than the amounts reported at September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We recorded a LIFO charge (credit) of $21.1 million, $2.2 million, and $(1.0) million in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 respectively. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, inventory declines resulted in liquidation of LIFO layers carried at lower costs prevailing in prior years. The effect of the liquidation in fiscal 2007 was to decrease cost of goods sold by $7.2 million and increase diluted earnings per share by $0.02. Business Combinations In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, the purchase price of an acquired company is allocated between tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed from the acquired business based on their estimated fair values, with the residual of the purchase price recorded as goodwill. The Company engages third party appraisal firms to assist management in determining the fair values of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Such valuations require management to make significant judgments, estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Management makes estimates of fair value based upon assumptions it believes to be reasonable. These estimates are based on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies, and are inherently uncertain. Critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from and economic lives of customer relationships, trade names, existing technology, and other intangible assets; and discount rates. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual events. Goodwill and Intangible Assets The Company accounts for purchased goodwill and intangible assets in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Under SFAS No. 142, purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized; rather, they are tested for impairment on at least an annual basis. Intangible assets with finite lives, primarily customer relationships, non compete agreements, patents and software technology, are amortized over their useful lives. In order to test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives under SFAS No. 142, a determination of the fair value of the Companys reporting units and intangible assets with indefinite lives is required and is based, among other things, on estimates of future operating performance of the reporting unit and or the component of the entity being valued. The Company is required to complete an impairment test for goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives and record any resulting impairment losses at least on an annual basis or more often if warranted by events or changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying value may exceed fair value (impairment indicators). This impairment test includes the projection and discounting of cash flows, analysis of the Companys market capitalization and estimating the fair values of tangible and intangible assets and liabilities. Estimating future cash flows and determining their present values are based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about expected future operating performance and appropriate discount rates determined by management. In fiscal 2008, PMSI experienced certain customer losses and learned that it would lose its largest customer at the end of calendar 2008. As a result, and after considering other factors, the Company committed to a plan to divest PMSI. The Company performed an interim impairment test of its PMSI reporting unit and determined that its goodwill was impaired. Therefore, PMSI wrote off the carrying value of its goodwill of $199.1 million. In addition, it also recognized charges of $26.7 million to record the estimated loss on the sale of PMSI (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company completed its required annual impairment tests relating to goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives in the fourth quarter of 40 Table of Contents fiscal 2008 and, as a result, recorded $5.3 million of impairment charges. The Companys estimates of cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, economic conditions, changes to the business model, or changes in operating performance. Significant differences between these estimates and actual cash flows could materially affect the Companys future financial results. Share Based Compensation The Company utilizes a binomial option pricing model to determine the fair value of share based compensation expense, which involves the use of several assumptions, including expected term of the option, future volatility, dividend yield and forfeiture rate. The expected term of options represents the period of time that the options granted are expected to be outstanding and is based on historical experience. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the Companys stock as well as other factors, such as implied volatility. Income Taxes The Companys income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and uncertain tax positions reflect managements assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the financial statements. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for tax purposes. The Company has established a net valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain. Expiring carryforwards and the required valuation allowances are adjusted annually. After application of the valuation allowances described above, the Company anticipates that no limitations will apply with respect to utilization of any of the other net deferred income tax assets described above. Effective October 1, 2007, the Company adopted the provisions of FIN No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. FIN No. 48 provides that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits. FIN No. 48 also provides guidance, among other things, on the measurement of the income tax benefit associated with uncertain tax positions, de recognition, classification, interest and penalties and financial statement disclosures. The Company has established an estimated liability for federal, state and non U.S. income tax exposures that arise and meet the criteria for accrual under FIN No. 48. The Company prepares and files tax returns based on its interpretation of tax laws and regulations and records estimates based on these judgments and interpretations. In the normal course of business, the Companys tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax law resulting from legislation, regulation and or as concluded through the various jurisdictions tax court systems. The Company believes that its estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and tax contingency reserves are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. However, others applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop a different estimate and the amount ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amounts accrued. The significant assumptions and estimates described in the preceding paragraphs are important contributors to the ultimate effective tax rate in each year. If any of the Companys assumptions or estimates were to change, an increase or decrease in the Companys effective tax rate by 1% on income from continuing operations before income taxes would have caused income tax expense to change by $7.6 million in fiscal 2008. 41 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table illustrates the Companys debt structure at September 30, 2008, including availability under revolving credit facilities and the receivables securitization facility (in thousands): OutstandingBalance AdditionalAvailability Fixed Rate Debt: $400,000, 5 5/8% senior notes due 2012 $ 398,773 $ $500,000, 5 7/8% senior notes due 2015 498,112 Other 840 Total fixed rate debt 897,725 Variable Rate Debt: Blanco revolving credit facility due 2009 55,000 Multi currency revolving credit facility due 2011 235,130 447,515 Receivables securitization facility due 2009 975,000 Other 1,276 2,343 Total variable rate debt 291,406 1,424,858 Total debt, including current portion $ 1,189,131 $ 1,424,858 The Companys aggregate availability under its revolving credit facilities and its receivables securitization facility provide sufficient sources of capital to fund the Companys working capital requirements. The Company has a $750 million five year multi currency senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility) with a syndicate of lenders. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, one of the lenders, Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc., filed for bankruptcy. As a result, the Companys availability under the Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility was reduced by $55 million. Interest on borrowings under the Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility accrues at specified rates based on the Companys debt rating and ranges from 19 basis points to 60 basis points over LIBOR/EURIBOR/Bankers Acceptance Stamping Fee, as applicable (40 basis points over LIBOR/EURIBOR/Bankers Acceptance Stamping Fee at September 30, 2008). Additionally, interest on borrowings denominated in Canadian dollars may accrue at the greater of the Canadian prime rate or the CDOR rate. The Company pays quarterly facility fees to maintain the availability under the Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility at specified rates based on the Companys debt rating, ranging from 6 basis points to 15 basis points of the total commitment (10 basis points at September 30, 2008). The Company may choose to repay or reduce its commitments under the Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility at any time. The Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility contains covenants that impose limitations on, among other things, indebtedness of excluded subsidiaries and asset sales. Additional covenants require compliance with financial tests, including a leverage ratio. The Company has a $975 million receivables securitization facility (Receivables Securitization Facility), of which $181.2 million expires in June 2009 and $793.8 million expires in November 2009. The Company has available to it an accordion feature whereby the commitment may be increased, subject to lender approval, to $1.2 billion for seasonal needs during the December and March quarters. Interest rates are based on prevailing market rates for short term commercial paper plus a program fee, and vary based on the Companys debt ratings. The program fee and the commitment fee, on average, were 53 basis points and 20 basis points, respectively, at September 30, 2008. At September 30, 2008, there were no borrowings under the Receivables Securitization Facility. In connection with the Receivables Securitization Facility, ABDC sells on a revolving basis certain accounts receivable to Amerisource Receivables Financial Corporation, a wholly owned special purpose entity, which in turn sells a percentage ownership interest in the receivables to commercial paper conduits sponsored by financial institutions. ABDC is the servicer of the accounts receivable under the Receivables Securitization Facility. After the maximum limit of receivables sold has been reached and as sold receivables are collected, 42 Table of Contents additional receivables may be sold up to the maximum amount available under the facility. The facility is a financing vehicle utilized by the Company because it generally offers an attractive interest rate relative to other financing sources. The Company securitizes its trade accounts, which are generally non interest bearing, in transactions that are accounted for as borrowings under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities. The agreement governing the Receivables Securitization Facility contains restrictions and covenants which include limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, making of certain restricted payments, issuance of preferred stock, creation of certain liens, and certain corporate acts such as mergers, consolidations and sale of substantially all assets. The $55 million Blanco revolving credit facility, which was scheduled to expire in April 2008, was amended and now expires in April 2009. Borrowings under the Blanco credit facility are guaranteed by the Company. Interest on borrowings under the Blanco credit facility accrues at the specific rates based on the Companys debt rating (55 basis points over LIBOR at September 30, 2008). Additionally, the Company pays quarterly facility fees on the full amount of the facility to maintain the availability under the Blanco credit facility at specific rates based on the Companys debt rating (10 basis points at September 30, 2008). The borrowing is not classified in the current portion of long term debt on the consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2008 because the Company has the ability and intent to refinance it on a long term basis. The Company has outstanding $400 million of 5 5/8% senior notes due September 15, 2012 (the 2012 Notes) and $500 million of 5 7/8% senior notes due September 15, 2015 (the 2015 Notes). The 2012 Notes and 2015 Notes each were sold at 99.5% of principal amount and have an effective yield of 5.71% and 5.94%, respectively. Interest on the 2012 Notes and the 2015 Notes is payable semiannually in arrears. Both the 2012 Notes and the 2015 Notes are redeemable at the Companys option at a price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount thereof, or the sum of the discounted value of the remaining scheduled payments, as defined. In January 2008, the Companys debt rating was raised by one of the rating agencies. In accordance with the terms of the Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility and the Blanco credit facility, interest on borrowings began accruing at lower rates, reducing the LIBOR spread and the facility fee on both facilities. In July 2008, the Companys debt rating was raised by another rating agency, and, as a result, the Companys senior unsecured debt is now rated investment grade by all three of the primary rating agencies. While the July 2008 ratings upgrade does not affect the Companys borrowing rates, it will no longer be required to maintain minimum earnings to fixed charges ratios, in connection with the Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility. The Companys operating results have generated cash flow, which, together with availability under its debt agreements and credit terms from suppliers, has provided sufficient capital resources to finance working capital and cash operating requirements, and to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, repayment of debt, the payment of interest on outstanding debt, dividends, and repurchases of shares of the Companys common stock. Recent deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely affect the amount of prescriptions that are filled and the amount of pharmaceutical products purchased by consumers and, therefore, reduce purchases by our customers. In addition, interest rate fluctuations and volatility in financial markets may also negatively impact our customers ability to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms. Reduced purchases by our customers or changes in payment terms could adversely affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our cash flow from operations. Recently, the credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption. As previously mentioned, one of our lenders under the Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility filed for bankruptcy, and as a result, our availability under this facility was reduced by $55 million. We continue to monitor the creditworthiness of our lenders and while we do not currently anticipate the failure of any additional lenders under our revolving credit facilities and or under the liquidity facilities of our receivables securitization facility, the failure of any further lenders could have an adverse effect on our ability to finance our business operations. 43 Table of Contents Additionally, our receivables securitization facility expires in calendar 2009. While we did not have any borrowings outstanding under this facility as of September 30, 2008, we have historically utilized amounts available to us under this facility throughout the year to meet our business needs. In fiscal 2009, we will seek to renew this facility at available market rates, which we believe will be higher than the interest rates currently available to us. While we believe we will be able to renew this facility, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. The Companys primary ongoing cash requirements will be to finance working capital, fund the payment of interest on debt, fund repurchases of its common stock, finance acquisitions and fund capital expenditures and routine growth and expansion through new business opportunities. For example, in October 2007, the Company purchased Bellco for $162.2 million, net of $20.7 million of cash acquired. In November 2007, the Companys board of directors authorized an increase to the $850 million share repurchase program by $500 million, subject to market conditions. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, the Company purchased $679.7 million of its common stock. As of September 30, 2008, the Company had approximately $18.1 million of availability remaining on its $1,350 million share repurchase program. In November 2008, the Companys board of directors approved a new program authorizing the Company to purchase up to $500 million of its outstanding shares of common stock, subject to market conditions. The Company expects to purchase approximately $350 million of its common stock in fiscal 2009, subject to market conditions. Future cash flows from operations and borrowings are expected to be sufficient to fund the Companys ongoing cash requirements. Following is a summary of the Companys contractual obligations for future principal and interest payments on its debt, minimum rental payments on its noncancelable operating leases and minimum payments on its other commitments at September 30, 2008 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Within 1year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5years Debt, including interest payments $ 1,495,892 $ 111,823 $ 108,682 $ 716,637 $ 558,750 Operating leases 242,663 64,071 90,084 39,593 48,915 Other commitments 551,033 130,713 170,584 148,484 101,252 Total $ 2,289,588 $ 306,607 $ 369,350 $ 904,714 $ 708,917 The $55 million Blanco revolving credit facility, which expires in April 2009, is included in the Within 1 year column in the above repayment table. However, this borrowing is not classified in the current portion of long term debt on the consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2008 because the Company has the ability and intent to refinance it on a long term basis. The Company has commitments to purchase product from influenza vaccine manufacturers through June 30, 2015. The Company is required to purchase annual doses at prices that the Company believes will represent market prices. The Company currently estimates its remaining purchase commitment under these agreements, as amended, will be approximately $379.2 million as of September 30, 2008. These influenza vaccine commitments are included in Other commitments in the above table. The Company outsources a significant portion of its corporate and ABDC information technology activities to IBM Global Services. The remaining commitment under this ten year outsourcing arrangement, which expires in June 2015, is approximately $115.7 million and is included in Other commitments in the above table. During fiscal 2008, the Companys operating activities provided $737.1 million of cash as compared to cash provided of $1,207.9 million in the prior fiscal year. Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2008 was principally the result of income from continuing operations of $469.1 million, non cash items of $212.8 million, and an increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and income taxes of $53.7 million. Non cash 44 Table of Contents items included the provision for deferred income taxes of $62.1 million, which was significantly higher than the prior fiscal year due to the increase in income tax deductions associated with merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories increased slightly despite the 7% increase in total revenue, as the number of average inventory days on hand decreased by 2 days compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to the continued benefits achieved from the consolidation of our distribution network and strong inventory management. Accounts receivable declined by $8.7 million from the prior fiscal year compared to the increase in sales as average days sales outstanding declined from 19.4 days in fiscal 2007 to 18.7 days in fiscal 2008 due to changes in customer mix including the July 1, 2008 sales reduction with a large chain customer. Additionally ABDC, which has lower average days sales outstanding than ABSG, grew faster than ABSG in fiscal 2008. Accounts payable, accrued expenses and income taxes grew less than revenues due to the reversal of favorable timing at the end of fiscal 2007. Average days payable outstanding in fiscal 2008 declined by 1/2 of one day from the prior fiscal year. Operating cash uses during fiscal 2008 included $68.5 million in interest payments and $262.9 million of income tax payments, net of refunds. During fiscal 2007, the Companys operating activities provided $1,207.9 million of cash as compared to cash provided of $807.3 million in the prior fiscal year. Cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2007 was principally the result of income from continuing operations of $474.8 million, non cash items of $181.1 million, an increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and income taxes of $507.6 million, and a decrease in merchandise inventories of $286.1 million, partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $236.0 million. The increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and income taxes was primarily driven by the increase in sales and days payable outstanding. Days payable outstanding in fiscal 2007 increased by 2 days from the prior fiscal year due to favorable timing of payments to our suppliers and the strong growth of ABSG, which has a higher days payable outstanding ratio than ABDC because certain of ABSGs businesses have more favorable payment terms with their suppliers. The inventory turnover rate for the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment improved to 13.6 times in fiscal 2007 from 12.2 times in the prior fiscal year. The number of inventory days on hand decreased compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to the benefits resulting from the Company having completed its integration plan to consolidate the ABDC distribution network and the strong growth of ABSGs business, which has lower inventory days on hand requirements. After several years of consolidation activity, the 26 U.S. ABDC distribution facilities in fiscal 2007 provided a stable distribution network environment, which combined with strong inventory management, resulted in a significant reduction in safety stock inventory. The increase in accounts receivable was due to the increase in operating revenue and an increase in average days sales outstanding for the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment. Average days sales outstanding for the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment increased to 18.8 days in fiscal 2007 from 16.7 days in the prior fiscal year. This increase was largely driven by the above market rate growth of the Specialty Group, which generally has a higher receivable investment than the ABDC distribution business. Operating cash uses during fiscal 2007 included $65.9 million in interest payments and $253.2 million of income tax payments, net of refunds. During fiscal 2006, the Companys operating activities provided $807.3 million of cash as compared to cash provided of $1,526.6 million in the prior fiscal year. Cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2006 was principally the result of income from continuing operations of $434.5 million, non cash items of $215.1 million (of which $89.2 million represented deferred income taxes), and a $1,152.7 million increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and income taxes, partially offset by a $673.2 million increase in accounts receivable and a $349.3 million increase in merchandise inventories. The increase in accounts payable was primarily a result of our 13% operating revenue increase and the timing of payments to our suppliers. The increase in inventory was due to the increase in operating revenue, net of the effect of the increase in the inventory turnover rate. The inventory turnover rate for the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment improved to 12.2 times in fiscal 2006 from 10.2 times in the prior fiscal year. The improvement was derived from lower average inventory levels due to an increase in the number of fee for service agreements, inventory management and other vendor agreements, and a reduction in the number of distribution facilities. The increase in accounts receivable was due to the increase in operating revenue and an increase in average days sales outstanding. Average days sales outstanding for the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment increased to 16.7 days in fiscal 2006 from 15.4 days in the prior fiscal year. 45 Table of Contents This increase was largely driven by the above market rate growth of the Specialty Group, which generally has a higher receivable investment than the ABDC business. Deferred income taxes of $89.2 million in fiscal 2006 were significantly higher than the prior fiscal year, primarily due to the increase in income tax deductions associated with merchandise inventories. Operating cash uses during fiscal year 2006 included $62.3 million in interest payments and $107.5 million of income tax payments, net of refunds. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $137.3 million, $111.3 million and $111.9 million, respectively. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2008 related principally to improving our information technology infrastructure, which included a significant purchase of software relating to our ERP enabled Business Transformation project, the expansion of our ABPG production facility in Rockford, Illinois, and investments in warehouse expansions and improvements. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2007 related principally to improving our information technology infrastructure, investments in ABDC warehouse expansions, equipment investments at ABSG and ABPG, equipment and furniture related to ABSGs new corporate facility, and ABPGs Illinois facility expansion. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2006 related principally to the construction of our new ABDC distribution facilities, investments in warehouse expansions and improvements, information technology and warehouse automation. The Company currently estimates that it will spend approximately $140 million for capital expenditures during fiscal 2009. In October 2007, the Company purchased Bellco, a privately held New York distributor of branded and generic pharmaceuticals, for a purchase price of $162.2 million, net of $20.7 million of cash acquired. In October 2006, the Company acquired IgG, a specialty pharmacy and infusion services business specializing in IVIG, for $37.2 million. In November 2006, the Company acquired AMD, a Canadian company that provides services including reimbursement support and nursing support services, for $13.4 million. In April 2007, the Company acquired Xcenda, a consulting business which applies customized solutions and innovative approaches that discover and communicate the value of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare technologies, for $25.2 million. Additionally, in fiscal 2007, in connection with its fiscal 2006 acquisition of Brecon, the Company made a contingent payment in the amount of $7.6 million to the former owners of Brecon. The Company also made payments of $2.9 million in fiscal 2007 related to certain prior period acquisitions. During fiscal 2006, the Company established operations in Canada by acquiring three distributors. The Company acquired Trent for a purchase price of $81.1 million, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Asenda for a purchase price of $18.2 million, and the Company acquired Rep Pharm, Inc. for a purchase price of $47.5 million. All three businesses acquired now comprise AmerisourceBergen Canada Corporation. In fiscal 2006, the Company also acquired Brecon, a United Kingdom based company, for an initial purchase price of $50.2 million, acquired Network for Medical Communication & Research, LLC (NMCR) for a purchase price of $86.6 million, and acquired certain assets of a technology solutions company relating to the Long Term Care business for $12.6 million. The assets of this technology solutions company were subsequently included in the Long Term Care divestiture transaction. Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 included purchases and sales of short term investment securities. Net proceeds (purchases) relating to these investment activities in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 were $467.4 million, $(399.6) million, and $281.3 million, respectively. These short term investment securities primarily consisted of commercial paper and tax exempt variable rate demand notes used to maximize the Companys after tax interest income. The Company does not have any short term investment securities as of September 30, 2008, nor has it purchased or sold short term investment securities since its second fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2008. Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2007 also included proceeds from the sales of property and equipment, primarily related to the sale of certain distribution facilities and proceeds from the sales of other assets, which principally related to the sale of certain retail pharmacy assets of the Companys former Long Term Care business. 46 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2006 also included proceeds of $49.6 million from the sale of property and equipment (of which $38.0 million related to the sale of the former Bergen Brunswig headquarters in Orange, California), proceeds of $28.1 million from two sale leaseback transactions entered into by the Company with financial institutions relating to equipment previously acquired for its new distribution facilities, and $7.6 million of proceeds from the sale of an equity investment and an eminent domain settlement. Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 included net (repayments) borrowings of $(16.4) million, $101.8 million, and $134.9 million, respectively, under the Companys revolving and securitization credit facilities. The net borrowings in fiscal 2007 and 2006 were primarily related to the Companys Canadian operations. In connection with the spin off transaction, Long Term Care borrowed $125.0 million from a financial institution, and provided a one time distribution to the Company. This distribution is reflected as a financing activity on the Companys Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007. During fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, the Company purchased a total of $679.7 million, $1,434.4 million and $717.7 million, respectively, of its common stock in connection with its share repurchase programs, which are summarized below. In May 2007, the Companys board of directors authorized a program allowing the Company to purchase up to $850 million of its outstanding shares of common stock, subject to market conditions. During fiscal 2007, the Company purchased $652.6 million under this new program. In November 2007, the Companys board of directors authorized an increase to the $850 million share repurchase program by $500 million, subject to market conditions. During fiscal 2008, the Company purchased $679.7 million under this program. The Company has $18.1 million of availability remaining under this share repurchase program as of September 30, 2008. In August 2006, the Companys board of directors authorized a program allowing the Company to purchase up to $750 million of its outstanding shares of common stock. During fiscal 2007, the Company purchased 15.6 million shares of its common stock to complete its authorization under this program. In May 2005, the Companys board of directors authorized a program allowing the Company to purchase up to $450 million of its outstanding shares of common stock. Through June 30, 2005, the Company had purchased $94.2 million of its common stock under this program. In August 2005, the Companys board of directors authorized an increase to the amount available under this program by approximately $394 million, bringing the then remaining availability to $750 million, and the total repurchase program to approximately $844 million. During fiscal 2006 and 2007, the Company purchased $748.4 million and $1.6 million, respectively, of its common stock under this program. During fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, the Company paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.075, $0.05, and $0.025 per share, respectively. On November 13, 2008, the Companys board of directors increased the quarterly dividend by 33% and declared a cash dividend of $0.10 per share, which will be paid on December 8, 2008 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 24, 2008. The Company anticipates that it will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future. However, the payment and amount of future dividends remain within the discretion of the Companys board of directors and will depend upon the Companys future earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors. Market Risk The Companys most significant market risk is the effect of fluctuations in interest rates. The Company manages interest rate risk by using a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt. The Company also has market risk exposure relating to its cash and cash equivalents and its short term investment securities 47 Table of Contents available for sale. At September 30, 2008, the Company had $291.4 million of variable rate debt. The amount of variable rate debt fluctuates during the year based on the Companys working capital requirements. The Company periodically evaluates various financial instruments that could mitigate a portion of its exposure to variable interest rates. However, there are no assurances that such instruments will be available on terms acceptable to the Company. There were no such financial instruments in effect at September 30, 2008. The Company had $878.1 million in cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2008. The unfavorable impact of a hypothetical decrease in interest rates on cash and cash equivalents would be partially offset by the favorable impact of such a decrease on variable rate debt. For every $100 million of cash invested that is in excess of variable rate debt, a 50 basis point decrease in interest rates would increase the Companys annual net interest expense by $0.5 million. The non U.S. operations of the Company are exposed to foreign currency and exchange rate risk. The Company may utilize foreign currency denominated forward contracts to hedge against changes in foreign exchange rates. Such contracts generally have durations of less than one year. During fiscal 2008, the Companys largest exposures to foreign exchange rates existed primarily with the Canadian Dollar. The Company had no foreign currency denominated forward contracts at September 30, 2008. The Company may use derivative instruments to hedge its foreign currency exposures but not for speculative or trading purposes. Recently Issued Financial Accounting Standards In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FIN No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Effective October 1, 2007, the Company adopted the provisions of FIN No. 48. Refer to Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Companys adoption of FIN No. 48. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This standard applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements, but does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 will become effective for the Companys financial assets and liabilities in fiscal 2009 and nonfinancial assets and liabilities in fiscal 2010. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115. SFAS No. 159 permits the Company to elect fair value as the initial and subsequent measurement attribute for certain financial assets and liabilities that are not otherwise required to be measured at fair value, on an instrument by instrument basis. If the Company elects the fair value option, it would be required to recognize changes in fair value in its earnings. This standard also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to improve comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 159 will be effective for fiscal 2009. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R, Business Combinations, which replaces SFAS No. 141. SFAS No. 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the goodwill acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non controlling interest in the acquired business. SFAS No. 141R also establishes disclosure requirements, which will enable users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141R is effective as of the beginning of an entitys fiscal year that begins after December 15, 2008, which will be the Companys fiscal year beginning October 1, 2009. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this standard. 48 Table of Contents Forward Looking Statements Certain of the statements contained in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and elsewhere in this report are forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on managements current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer or supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; changes in U.S. Legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and or labeling for the pharmaceuticals we distribute, including erythropoiesis stimulating agents (ESAs) used to treat anemia patients; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; our ability to maintain adequate liquidity and financing sources; continued volatility and further deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and or operational factors affecting our business generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward looking statements are set forth elsewhere in this MD&A, in Item 1A (Risk Factors), Item 1 (Business) and elsewhere in this report. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Companys most significant market risks are the effects of changing interest rates and foreign currency risk. See discussion on page 47 under the heading Market Risk, which is incorporated by reference herein. 49 Table of Contents 
