ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained herein. We are a pharmaceutical services company providing drug distribution and related healthcare services and solutions to our pharmacy, physician, and manufacturer customers, which are based primarily in the United States and Canada. We are organized based upon the products and services we provide to our customers. Substantially all of our operations are located in the United States and Canada. We also have a pharmaceutical packaging operation in the United Kingdom. In May 2009, we declared a two for one stock split of our outstanding shares of common stock. The stock split occurred in the form of a 100% stock dividend, whereby each stockholder received one additional share for each share owned. The shares were distributed on June 15, 2009 to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 29, 2009. All applicable share and per share data in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations have been retroactively adjusted to give effect to this stock split. Acquisition In May 2009, we acquired Innomar Strategies Inc. (Innomar), a Canadian specialty pharmaceutical services company, for a purchase price of $13.4 million, net of a working capital adjustment. Innomar provides services within Canada to pharmaceutical biotechnology companies, including strategic consulting and access solutions, specialty logistics management, patient assistance and nursing services, and clinical research services. The acquisition of Innomar expanded our specialty business in Canada. Divestitures In October 2008, we completed the divestiture of our former workers compensation business, PMSI. We classified PMSIs assets and liabilities as held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2008 and classified PMSIs operating results and cash flows as discontinued in the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. We sold PMSI for approximately $31 million, net of a final working capital adjustment, which includes a $19 million subordinated note due from PMSI on the fifth anniversary of the closing date (the maturity date), of which $4 million may be payable in October 2010 if PMSI achieves certain revenue targets with respect to its largest customer. Interest, which accrues at an annual rate of LIBOR plus 4% (not to exceed 8%), will be payable in cash on a quarterly basis if PMSI achieves a defined minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, or will be compounded quarterly and paid at maturity. Additionally, if PMSIs annual net revenue exceeds certain thresholds through December 2011, we may be entitled to additional payments of up to $10 million under the subordinated note due from PMSI on the maturity date of the note. On July 31, 2007, we completed the spin off of our former institutional pharmacy business, PharMerica Long Term Care (Long Term Care). In connection with the spin off, we continue to distribute pharmaceuticals to and generate cash flows from the disposed institutional pharmacy business. The historical operating results of Long Term Care are not reported as a discontinued operation because of the significance of the continuing cash flows resulting from the pharmaceutical distribution agreement entered into between the disposed component and us. For periods prior to August 1, 2007, our operating results include Long Term Care. 21 Table of Contents Reportable Segments Our operations are currently comprised of one reportable segment, Pharmaceutical Distribution. The Other reportable segment included the operating results of Long Term Care, through the July 31, 2007 spin off date. The operating results of PMSI, which was sold in October 2008, were reclassified to discontinued operations. Pharmaceutical Distribution The Pharmaceutical Distribution reportable segment is comprised of three operating segments, which include the operations of AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation (ABDC), AmerisourceBergen Specialty Group (ABSG), and AmerisourceBergen Packaging Group (ABPG). Servicing both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the Pharmaceutical Distribution segments operations provide drug distribution and related services designed to reduce healthcare costs and improve patient outcomes. ABDC distributes a comprehensive offering of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals, over the counter healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, and related services to a wide variety of healthcare providers, including acute care hospitals and health systems, independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, medical clinics, long term care and other alternate site pharmacies, and other customers. ABDC also provides pharmacy management, staffing and other consulting services; scalable automated pharmacy dispensing equipment; medication and supply dispensing cabinets; and supply management software to a variety of retail and institutional healthcare providers. ABSG, through a number of individual operating businesses, provides pharmaceutical distribution and other services primarily to physicians who specialize in a variety of disease states, especially oncology, and to other healthcare providers, including dialysis clinics. ABSG also distributes vaccines, other injectables, and plasma and other blood products. In addition, through its specialty service businesses, ABSG provides drug commercialization services, third party logistics, and other services for biotech and other pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as reimbursement consulting, data analytics, outcomes research, practice management, group purchasing services for physician practices, and physician education. ABPG consists of American Health Packaging, Anderson Packaging (Anderson), and Brecon Pharmaceuticals Limited (Brecon). American Health Packaging delivers unit dose, punch card, unit of use, and other packaging solutions to institutional and retail healthcare providers. American Health Packagings largest customer is ABDC, and, as a result, its operations are closely aligned with the operations of ABDC. Anderson is a leading provider of contracted packaging services for pharmaceutical manufacturers. Brecon is a United Kingdom based provider of contract packaging and clinical trials materials services for pharmaceutical manufacturers. Other Prior to its divestiture, Long Term Care was a leading national dispenser of pharmaceutical products and services to patients in long term care and alternate site settings, including skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities and residential living communities. Long Term Cares institutional pharmacy business involved the purchase of prescription and nonprescription pharmaceuticals, principally from our Pharmaceutical Distribution segment, and the dispensing of those products to residents in long term care and alternate site facilities. 22 Table of Contents AmerisourceBergen Corporation Summary Segment Information 2009 2008 Total Revenue vs. vs. Fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 Change Change (dollars in thousands) Pharmaceutical Distribution $ 71,759,990 $ 70,189,733 $ 65,340,623 2 % 7 % Other (a) 1,045,663 N/M N/M Intersegment eliminations (714,214 ) N/M N/M Total $ 71,759,990 $ 70,189,733 $ 65,672,072 2 % 7 % 2009 2008 Operating Income vs. vs. Fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 Change Change (dollars in thousands) Pharmaceutical Distribution $ 889,155 $ 836,747 $ 729,978 6 % 15 % Other (a) 24,994 N/M N/M Facility consolidations, employee severance and other (5,406 ) (12,377 ) (2,072 ) (56 ) 497 Gain on antitrust litigation settlements 3,491 35,837 (100 ) (90 ) Total $ 883,749 $ 827,861 $ 788,737 7 % 5 % Percentages of total revenue: Pharmaceutical Distribution Gross profit 2.93 % 2.91 % 2.87 % Operating expenses 1.69 % 1.72 % 1.75 % Operating income 1.24 % 1.19 % 1.12 % Other (a) Gross profit N/M N/M 29.37 % Operating expenses N/M N/M 26.98 % Operating income N/M N/M 2.39 % AmerisourceBergen Corporation Gross profit 2.93 % 2.92 % 3.38 % Operating expenses 1.69 % 1.74 % 2.18 % Operating income 1.23 % 1.18 % 1.20 % (a) Other represents Long Term Cares operating results for the ten month period ended July 31, 2007. Year ended September 30, 2009 compared with Year ended September 30, 2008 Operating Results Total revenue of $71.8 billion in fiscal 2009, which includes bulk deliveries to customer warehouses, increased 2% from the prior fiscal year. This increase was due to the 7% growth of ABSG and the 1.8% growth of ABDC, which was impacted by the July 1, 2008 loss of certain business (approximately $3 billion on an annualized basis) with a national retail drug chain customer. Excluding the loss of the above mentioned business, total revenue in fiscal 2009 would have increased by 5% from the prior fiscal year. During fiscal 2009 and 2008, 68% of total revenue was from sales to institutional customers and 32% was from sales to retail customers. Sales to institutional customers increased 5% in the current fiscal year primarily due to the growth of ABSG and the addition of a new large hospital buying group customer. Sales to retail customers decreased 4% in the current fiscal year as the loss of the above mentioned national chain business was offset, in part, by market growth and the addition of a new large independent retail buying group customer. We report as revenue bulk deliveries to customer warehouses, whereby we act as an intermediary in the ordering and delivery of pharmaceutical products. Bulk delivery transactions are arranged by us at the express direction of the customer, and involve either shipments from the supplier directly to customers warehouse sites (i.e., drop shipment) or shipments from the supplier to us for immediate shipment to the customers warehouse sites (i.e., cross dock shipment). Bulk deliveries of $1.7 billion in fiscal 2009 decreased 36% from the prior fiscal year. This decline was due to the prior year transition of a significant amount of business previously conducted on a bulk delivery basis with our largest customer to an operating revenue basis. We are a principal to bulk delivery transactions because we are the primary obligor and have the ultimate responsibility for fulfillment and acceptability of the products purchased, and bear full risk of delivery and loss for products, whether the products are drop shipped or shipped cross dock. We also bear full credit risk associated with the creditworthiness of any bulk delivery customer. As a result, we record bulk deliveries to customer warehouses as gross revenues. Due to the insignificant service fees generated from bulk deliveries, fluctuations in volume have no significant impact on our operating margins. However, revenue from bulk deliveries has a positive impact on our cash flows due to favorable timing between customer payments to us and payments by us to our suppliers. 23 Table of Contents ABDCs total revenue in fiscal 2009 increased by 1.8% from the prior fiscal year, primarily due to revenue from two new large customers, and was partially offset by the loss of certain business with a large retail drug chain customer, as mentioned above. ABSGs total revenue in fiscal 2009 of $15.6 billion increased 7% from the prior fiscal year due to good growth broadly across its distribution and service businesses, offset in part, by declining anemia drug sales (see paragraph below). The majority of ABSGs revenue is generated from the distribution of pharmaceuticals to physicians who specialize in a variety of disease states, especially oncology. ABSG also distributes vaccines, plasma and other blood products. ABSGs business may be adversely impacted in the future by changes in medical guidelines and the Medicare reimbursement rates for certain pharmaceuticals, including oncology drugs administered by physicians and anemia drugs. Since ABSG provides a number of services to or through physicians, any changes affecting this service channel could result in slower or reduced growth in revenues. Revenue related to the distribution of anemia related products, which represented 5% of total revenue in fiscal 2009, decreased approximately 7% from the prior fiscal year. The decline in sales of anemia related products has been most pronounced in the use of these products for cancer treatment. Sales of oncology related anemia products represented approximately 1.8% of total revenue in fiscal 2009, and decreased approximately 25% from the prior fiscal year. Several developments have contributed to the decline in sales of anemia drugs, including expanded warning and other product safety labeling requirements, more restrictive federal policies governing Medicare reimbursement for the use of these drugs to treat oncology patients undergoing dialysis or experiencing kidney failure, and changes in regulatory and clinical medical guidelines for recommended dosage and use. As a result, oncology related anemia drug sales have declined further in fiscal 2009 from our fiscal 2008 total. In addition, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is continuing to review clinical study data concerning the possible risks associated with certain anemia products and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announced last year that it is considering a review of national Medicare policy for these drugs for patients who have cancer or pre dialysis kidney disease. The FDA or CMS may take additional action regarding the use, safety labeling and or Medicare coverage of these drugs in the future. Further changes in medical guidelines for anemia drugs may impact the availability and extent of reimbursement for these drugs from third party payors, including federal and state governments and private insurance plans. Our future revenue growth rate and or profitability may continue to be impacted by any future reductions in reimbursement for anemia drugs or changes that limit the dosage and or use of anemia drugs. We expect that our total revenue growth in fiscal 2010 for ABDC and ABSG will be between 5% and 7%. Due to the addition of two significant new customers in March and April 2009, we expect revenue growth will be higher in the first half of fiscal 2010 than in the second half. Our expected growth reflects U.S. pharmaceutical industry conditions, including increases in prescription drug utilization, the introduction of new products, and higher branded pharmaceutical prices, offset, in part, by the increased use of lower priced generics. Our growth has also been impacted by industry competition and changes in customer mix. Industry sales in the United States, as recently estimated by industry data firm IMS Healthcare, Inc. (IMS), are expected to grow between 3% and 5% in calendar 2010. IMS expects that certain sectors of the market, such as biotechnology and other specialty and generic pharmaceuticals, will grow faster than the overall market. Additionally, IMS expects the U.S. pharmaceutical industry to grow annually in the low to mid single digit percentages through 2013. Our future revenue growth will continue to be affected by various factors such as industry growth trends, including the likely increase in the number of generic drugs that will be available over the next few years as a result of the expiration of certain drug patents held by brand manufacturers, general economic conditions in the United States, competition within the industry, customer consolidation, changes in pharmaceutical manufacturer pricing and distribution policies and practices, increased downward pressure on reimbursement rates, and changes in federal government rules and regulations. Gross profit of $2.1 billion in fiscal 2009 increased by $53.1 million or 3% from the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily due to the strong growth and increased profitability of our generic programs, including specialty generics (with generic revenue increasing by15% in comparison to the prior fiscal year), increased contributions from our fee for service agreements (including $10.2 million of fees relating to prior period sales resulting from the execution of new agreements in the quarter ended December 31, 2008), and good growth from ABSGs businesses, all of which was offset, in part, by ABSGs $15.5 million write down of influenza vaccine inventory in the December 2008 quarter, and normal competitive pressures on customer margins in the current fiscal year. Gross profit in fiscal 2009 benefited from a settlement of $1.8 million with a former customer. Gross profit in the prior fiscal year benefited from a gain of $13.2 million relating to favorable litigation settlements with a former customer and a major competitor, and an $8.6 million settlement of disputed fees with a supplier, and was partially offset by an $8.4 million inventory write down of certain pharmacy equipment. Additionally, in the prior fiscal year, we recognized a gain of $3.5 million from antitrust litigation settlements with pharmaceutical manufacturers. This gain, which was excluded from the determination of Pharmaceutical Distribution segments gross profit, was recorded as a reduction to cost of goods sold. The Company is unable to estimate future gains, if any, it will recognize as a result of antitrust settlements (see Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). As a percentage of total revenue, gross profit in fiscal 2009 was 2.93%, an increase of 1 basis point from the prior fiscal year. 24 Table of Contents Our cost of goods sold includes a last in, first out (LIFO) provision that is affected by changes in inventory quantities, product mix, and manufacturer pricing practices, which may be impacted by market and other external influences. We recorded a LIFO charge of $15.1 million and $21.1 million in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. The fiscal 2009 and 2008 LIFO charges reflect brand name supplier price inflation, which more than offset price deflation of generic drugs. Operating expenses of $1.2 billion in fiscal 2009 declined by nearly $3.0 million when compared to the prior fiscal year as a decrease in facility consolidations, employee severance and other charges of $7.0 million, a decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses of $3.2 million, and a decrease in asset impairment charges of $1.5 million were offset, in part, by an increase in bad debt expense of $4.2 million. Asset impairment charges in the current fiscal year included trade name impairment charges of $11.8 million and the write off of certain capitalized software totaling $2.8 million. Asset impairment charges in the prior fiscal year included trade name impairment charges of $5.3 million related to certain of our smaller business units and impairment charges related to capitalized equipment and software development costs totaling $10.8 million, primarily due to ABDCs decision to abandon the use of certain software, which will be replaced in connection with our Business Transformation project. Additionally, expenses incurred in fiscal 2009 in connection with our Business Transformation project, which includes a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) platform, increased by $13.8 million from the prior fiscal year. As a result of our cE2 initiative described below, we have been able to substantially offset these incremental costs by reducing our warehouse operating costs through continuing productivity improvements and by streamlining our organizational structures within ABDC and ABSG. As a percentage of total revenue, operating expenses were 1.69% and 1.74% in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following table illustrates the charges incurred relating to facility consolidations, employee severance and other (which are excluded from the operating expenses of the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment) for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2009 and 2008 (in thousands): 2009 2008 Facility consolidations and employee severance $ 5,406 $ 9,741 Costs relating to business divestitures 2,636 Total facility consolidations, employee severance and other $ 5,406 $ 12,377 In fiscal 2008, we announced a more streamlined organizational structure and introduced an initiative (cE2) designed to drive increased customer efficiency and cost effectiveness. In connection with these efforts, we reduced various operating costs and terminated certain positions. During fiscal 2009 and 2008, we terminated 197 and 130 employees and incurred $3.1 million and $10.0 million of employee severance costs, respectively, relating to our cE2 initiative. Additionally, in fiscal 2009, we recorded $2.2 million of additional expense relating to the Bergen Brunswig Matter as described in Note 13 (Legal Matters and Contingencies) of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In fiscal 2008, we reversed $1.0 million of employee severance charges previously estimated and recorded relating to a prior integration plan. Costs related to business divestitures in fiscal 2008 related to the sale of our former workers compensation business, PMSI. We paid a total of $15.4 million and $6.8 million for employee severance, lease cancellation and other costs in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. Remaining unpaid amounts of $11.4 million for employee severance, lease cancellation and other costs are included in accrued expenses and other in the accompanying balance sheet at September 30, 2009. Employees receive their severance benefits over a period of time, generally not in excess of 12 months, or in the form of a lump sum payment. Operating income of $883.7 million in fiscal 2009 increased 7% from the prior fiscal year primarily due to the increase in gross profit. As a percentage of total revenue, operating income of 1.23% in fiscal 2009 increased 5 basis points from the prior fiscal year due to the 2% increase in revenue while operating expense dollars remained relatively flat. The costs of facility consolidations, employee severance and other, and the charges relating to intangible asset impairments, less the gain on antitrust litigation settlements had the effect of decreasing operating income as a percentage of total revenue by 2 basis points in each of fiscal 2009 and 2008. 25 Table of Contents Interest expense, interest income, and their respective weighted average interest rates in fiscal 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in thousands): 2009 2008 Weighted Average Weighted Average Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Interest expense $ 63,502 4.88 % $ 75,099 5.48 % Interest income (5,195 ) 0.85 % (10,603 ) 3.33 % Interest expense, net $ 58,307 $ 64,496 Interest expense decreased from the prior fiscal year due to a decrease of $90.4 million in average borrowings and a decrease in the weighted average interest rate on borrowings under our revolving credit facilities to 2.08% from 4.77% in the prior fiscal year. Interest income decreased from the prior fiscal year primarily due to a decline in the weighted average interest rate, offset in part, by an increase in average invested cash of $218.5 million. Our net interest expense in future periods may vary significantly depending upon changes in net borrowings, interest rates, and strategic decisions to deploy our invested cash. Income taxes in fiscal 2009 reflect an effective income tax rate of 37.9%, compared to 38.4% in the prior fiscal year. Due to the impact of discrete tax events, we were able to recognize certain federal and state tax benefits in fiscal 2009, thereby reducing our effective tax rate from the prior fiscal year. Income from continuing operations of $511.9 million in fiscal 2009 increased 9% from $469.1 million in the prior fiscal year due to the increase in operating income, the decrease in interest expense and the reduction in the effective income tax rate. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.69 in fiscal 2009 increased 17% from $1.44 per share in the prior fiscal year. The difference between diluted earnings per share growth and the increase in income from continuing operations was due to the 7% reduction in weighted average common shares outstanding resulting from purchases of our common stock in connection with our stock repurchase program (see Liquidity and Capital Resources), net of the impact of stock option exercises. Loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in fiscal 2009 included a final PMSI working capital adjustment of $2.8 million and costs in connection with a prior period business disposition. Loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in fiscal 2008 primarily related to the PMSI business, and included a $224.8 million charge, net of income taxes, to reduce its carrying value. Year ended September 30, 2008 compared with Year ended September 30, 2007 Operating Results Total revenue of $70.2 billion in fiscal 2008, which includes bulk deliveries to customer warehouses, increased 7% from the prior fiscal year. This increase was driven by the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment, which received a 3% contribution from the Bellco acquisition. During fiscal 2008, 68% of total revenue was from sales to institutional customers and 32% was from sales to retail customers; this compared to a customer mix in the prior fiscal year of 64% institutional and 36% retail. In comparison to the prior fiscal year results, sales to institutional customers increased 15% primarily due to the acquisition of Bellco (the revenue of which is heavily weighted towards institutional customers) and the strong growth of certain large customers. Sales to retail customers decreased 5% primarily due to our decision not to renew a contract, effective January 2007, with a large retail customer and the July 1, 2008 loss of certain business totaling approximately $3.0 billion of annual revenue from a large retail drug chain customer. Bulk deliveries of $2.7 billion in fiscal 2008 decreased 39% from the prior fiscal year. This decline was due to the fiscal 2008 transition of a significant amount of business previously conducted on a bulk delivery basis with our largest customer to an operating revenue basis. Revenue relating to bulk deliveries fluctuates primarily due to changes in demand from our largest bulk customer. Due to the insignificant service fees generated from bulk deliveries, fluctuations in volume have no significant impact on operating margins. However, revenue from bulk deliveries has a positive impact on our cash flows due to favorable timing between the customer payments to us and payments by us to our suppliers. ABDCs total revenue (excluding Bellco) increased by 5% in fiscal 2008 in comparison to the prior fiscal year. This revenue growth was primarily due to the increase in sales to certain of our large institutional customers, offset, in part, by the decline in retail customer revenue, as discussed above. ABSGs total revenue (excluding Bellco) of $13.0 billion in fiscal 2008 increased 3% compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to strong double digit growth of its non oncology distribution businesses. Oncology distributions revenue, which represented approximately 60% of ABSGs total revenue, was flat compared to the prior fiscal year. ABSGs revenue growth was affected primarily by declining anemia drug sales and by one of its large customers for oncology drugs being acquired by a competitor in October 2007. The former customer contributed approximately $800 million to ABSGs revenue in fiscal 2007. The majority of ABSGs revenue is generated from the distribution of pharmaceuticals, primarily injectibles, to physicians who specialize in a variety of disease states, especially oncology. ABSG also distributes vaccines, plasma, and other blood products. 26 Table of Contents Revenue related to the distribution of anemia related products, which represented approximately 5.8% of Pharmaceutical Distributions total revenue in fiscal 2008, decreased approximately 23% from the prior fiscal year. The decline in sales of anemia related products since the second half of fiscal 2007 was most pronounced in the use of these products for cancer treatment. Sales of oncology anemia related products represented approximately 2.2% of total revenue in fiscal 2008 and decreased approximately 32% from the prior fiscal year. Several developments contributed to the decline in sales of anemia drugs, including expanded warning and other product safety labeling requirements, more restrictive federal policies governing Medicare reimbursement for the use of these drugs to treat oncology patients with kidney failure and dialysis, and changes in regulatory and clinical medical guidelines for recommended dosage and use. Gross profit of $2.0 billion in fiscal 2008 decreased 8% from the prior fiscal year. As a percentage of total revenue, gross profit in fiscal 2008 was 2.92%, a decrease of 46 basis points from the prior fiscal year. These declines were related to the Other segment, as the prior years consolidated results included $307.1 million of gross profit from the operating results of Long Term Care through the July 31, 2007 spin off date. The Other segment gross profit decrease was offset, in part, by the 9% increase in the Pharmaceutical Distribution segments gross profit in fiscal 2008, primarily due to revenue growth, growth of our generic programs, the acquisition of Bellco, and strong brand name manufacturer price appreciation. Fiscal 2008 gross profit benefited from gains of $13.2 million relating to favorable litigation settlements with a former customer (an independent retail group purchasing organization) and a major competitor and an $8.6 million settlement of disputed fees with a supplier, and was offset, in part, by an $8.4 million inventory write down of certain pharmacy dispensing equipment. Fiscal 2007 gross profit was impacted by ABSGs $27.8 million charge relating to the write down of tetanus diptheria vaccine inventory to its estimated net realizable value. In fiscal 2008 and 2007, we recognized gains of $3.5 million and $35.8 million, respectively, from antitrust litigation settlements with pharmaceutical manufacturers. These gains, which are net of attorney fees and estimated payments due to other parties, were recorded as reductions to cost of goods sold and contributed 0.2% and 1.6% of gross profit in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our cost of goods sold includes a last in, first out (LIFO) provision that is affected by changes in inventory quantities, product mix, and manufacturer pricing practices, which may be impacted by market and other external influences. We recorded a LIFO charge of $21.1 million and $2.2 million in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. The fiscal 2008 LIFO charge reflects greater brand name supplier price inflation, which more than offset the impact of price deflation of generic drugs. During fiscal 2007, inventory declines resulted in liquidation of LIFO layers carried at lower costs prevailing in the prior fiscal year. The effect of the liquidation in fiscal 2007 was to decrease cost of goods sold by $7.2 million. Consolidated operating expenses of $1.2 billion in fiscal 2008 decreased by 15% from the prior fiscal year. This decline was related to the Other segment, as the prior years consolidated results included $282.1 million of operating expenses from the operating results of Long Term Care and was partially offset by operating expenses of our recent acquisitions, primarily those of Bellco. Pharmaceutical Distribution operating expenses in fiscal 2008 increased by 5% from the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily related to the operating expenses of our recent acquisitions, primarily those of Bellco. Additionally, Pharmaceutical Distribution operating expenses in fiscal 2008 were impacted by ABDC impairment charges related to capitalized equipment and software development costs totaling $10.8 million, primarily due to ABDCs decision to abandon the use of certain software which will be replaced in connection with our Business Transformation project. Pharmaceutical Distribution operating expenses in fiscal 2008 were also impacted by a $5.3 million write down of intangible assets related to certain smaller business units. As a percentage of total revenue, Pharmaceutical Distribution operating expenses in fiscal 2008 decreased 3 basis points from the prior fiscal year due to improvements in operating leverage, primarily in ABDC, where operating expenses declined despite an increase in total revenue, due to a more streamlined organizational structure within ABDC and ABSG and the cost savings achieved resulting from our cE2 initiative. The following table illustrates the charges incurred relating to facility consolidations, employee severance and other (which are excluded from the operating expenses of the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment) for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2008 and 2007 (in thousands): 2008 2007 Facility consolidations and employee severance $ 9,741 $ (5,863 ) Information technology transition costs 1,679 Costs relating to business divestitures 2,636 9,335 Gain on sale of assets (3,079 ) Total facility consolidations, employee severance and other $ 12,377 $ 2,072 In fiscal 2008, we announced a more streamlined organizational structure and introduced an initiative (cE2) designed to drive increased customer efficiency and cost effectiveness. In connection with these efforts, we reduced various operating costs and terminated certain positions. In fiscal 2008, we terminated approximately 130 employees and incurred $10.0 million of employee severance costs, relating to the aforementioned efforts. 27 Table of Contents In fiscal 2007, we completed our integration plan to consolidate our distribution network and eliminate duplicative administrative functions. The plan included building six new facilities, closing 31 facilities and outsourcing a significant amount of our information technology activities. In fiscal 2008, we reversed $1.0 million of employee severance charges previously estimated and recorded related to this integration plan. In fiscal 2006, we incurred a charge of $13.9 million for an increase in a compensation accrual due to an adverse decision in an employment related dispute with a former Bergen Brunswig chief executive officer whose employment was terminated in 1999. In October 2007, we received a favorable ruling from a California appellate court reversing certain portions of the prior adverse decision. As a result, we reduced our liability in fiscal 2007 to the Bergen Brunswig chief executive officer by $10.4 million (see Bergen Brunswig Matter under Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The fiscal 2007 compensation expense reduction was recorded as a component of facility consolidations and employee severance. Costs related to business divestitures in fiscal 2008 and 2007 related to PMSI and the Long Term Care spin off, respectively. In fiscal 2007, we recognized a $3.1 million gain relating to the sale of certain retail pharmacy assets of our former Long Term Care business. We paid a total of $6.8 million and $20.7 million for employee severance, lease cancellation and other costs in fiscal year 2008 and 2007, respectively. Employees receive their severance benefits over a period of time, generally not in excess of 12 months, or in the form of a lump sum payment. Operating income of $827.9 million in fiscal 2008 increased 5% from the prior fiscal year due to the 15% or $106.8 million increase in the Pharmaceutical Distribution segments operating income, which was offset, in part, by a decrease of $32.3 million in gains from antitrust litigation settlements, and an increase of $10.3 million in facility consolidation, employee severance and other costs. Additionally, the prior fiscal year benefited from a $25.0 million contribution from Long Term Care, prior to its July 2007 spin off. As a percentage of total revenue, operating income in fiscal 2008 decreased 2 basis points from the prior fiscal year despite Pharmaceutical Distributions operating income as a percentage of total revenue increasing by 7 basis points. This increase was due to the improvements in the gross profit and operating expense margins of the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment. The costs of facility consolidations, employee severance and other, less the gain on antitrust litigation settlements, decreased operating income by $8.9 million in fiscal 2008 and reduced operating income as a percentage of total revenue by 1 basis point. The gain on antitrust litigation settlements, less the costs of facility consolidations, employee severance and other, contributed $33.8 million to operating income in fiscal 2007 and increased operating income as a percentage of total revenue by 5 basis points. Long Term Cares operating income in fiscal 2007 increased operating income as a percentage of total revenue by 4 basis points. Other loss of $2.0 million and $3.0 million in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily related to other than temporary impairment losses incurred with respect to equity investments. Interest expense, interest income and their respective weighted average interest rates in fiscal 2008 and 2007 were as follows (in thousands): 2008 2007 Weighted Average Weighted Average Amount Interest Rate Amount Interest Rate Interest expense $ 75,099 5.48 % $ 75,661 5.65 % Interest income (10,603 ) 3.33 % (43,417 ) 4.26 % Interest expense, net $ 64,496 $ 32,244 Interest expense was relatively consistent when compared to the prior fiscal year as an increase of $85.2 million in average borrowings was offset by the decline in the weighted average interest rate. Interest income decreased substantially from the prior fiscal year primarily due to a decline in average invested cash and short term investments from $976.2 million during the prior fiscal year to $309.5 million during fiscal 2008. The decrease in invested cash and short term investments from the prior fiscal year was primarily due to our use of cash for share repurchases, acquisitions, and capital expenditures, all of which, in the aggregate, exceeded our net cash provided by operating activities since the prior fiscal year. Income tax expense reflects an effective income tax rate of 38.4%, versus 37.0% in the prior fiscal year. The increase in the effective tax rate from the prior fiscal year was primarily due to the company having benefited less in the current year from tax free investment income. 28 Table of Contents Income from continuing operations of $469.1 million in fiscal 2008 decreased 1% from $474.8 million in the prior fiscal year. The 5% increase in 2008 operating income was offset by the increase in net interest expense and the increase in the effective income tax rate. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.44 increased 14% from $1.26 per share in the prior fiscal year. The difference between diluted earnings per share growth and the decline in income from continuing operations was due to the 14% reduction in weighted average common shares outstanding from purchases of our common stock in connection with our stock repurchase program (see Liquidity and Capital Resources), net of the impact of stock option exercises. The costs of facility consolidations, employee severance and other, less the gain on antitrust litigation settlements decreased income from continuing operations by $5.5 million and decreased diluted earnings per share by $0.02 in fiscal 2008. The gain on antitrust litigation settlements less the costs of facility consolidations, employee severance and other contributed $17.0 million to income from continuing operations and $0.05 to diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2007. Additionally, the inclusion of Long Term Cares operating results in fiscal 2007 increased diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by $0.04. The loss from discontinued operations of $218.5 million, net of income taxes, relates to the PMSI business, which was sold in October 2008. The loss from discontinued operations in fiscal 2008 includes a $224.9 million charge, net of income taxes, recorded to reduce the carrying value of PMSI. Loss from discontinued operations of $5.6 million, net of income taxes, in fiscal 2007 included a $24.6 million charge, net of income taxes, incurred by us related to an adverse court ruling with respect to a contingent purchase price adjustment in connection with the 2003 acquisition of Bridge Medical, Inc. (Bridge). Substantially all of the assets of the Bridge business were sold in July 2005. The aforementioned charge in fiscal 2007 was substantially offset by income from discontinued operations relating to the PMSI business. Other The Other reportable segment includes the operating results of Long Term Care, through the July 31, 2007 spin off date. The operating results of PMSI, which was sold in October 2008, have been reclassified to discontinued operations. Intersegment Eliminations These amounts represent the elimination of the Pharmaceutical Distribution segments sales to the Other segment. ABDC was the principal supplier of pharmaceuticals to the Other segment. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies are those policies which involve accounting estimates and assumptions that can have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations and require the use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and managements judgment. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Below are those policies applied in preparing our financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. For a complete list of significant accounting policies, see Note 1 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Trade receivables are primarily comprised of amounts owed to us for our pharmaceutical distribution and services activities and are presented net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and a reserve for customer sales returns. In determining the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts, we consider a combination of factors, such as the aging of trade receivables, industry trends, and our customers financial strength, credit standing, and payment and default history. Changes in the aforementioned factors, among others, may lead to adjustments in our allowance for doubtful accounts. The calculation of the required allowance requires judgment by our management as to the impact of these and other factors on the ultimate realization of our trade receivables. Each of our business units performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers financial condition and maintains reserves for probable bad debt losses based on historical experience and for specific credit problems when they arise. We write off balances against the reserves when collectability is deemed remote. Each business unit performs formal documented reviews of the allowance at least quarterly and our largest business units perform such reviews monthly. There were no significant changes to this process during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and bad debt expense was computed in a consistent manner during these periods. The bad debt expense for any period presented is equal to the changes in the period end allowance for doubtful accounts, net of write offs, recoveries and other adjustments. Schedule II of this Form 10 K sets forth a rollforward of the allowance for doubtful accounts. Bad debt expense for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2009 and 2008 was $31.8 million and $27.6 million, respectively. Bad debt expense for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 was $48.5 million, which included Long Term Cares bad debt expense of $17.6 million. An increase or decrease of 0.1% in the 2009 allowance as a percentage of trade receivables would result in an increase or decrease in the provision on accounts receivable of approximately $4.0 million. 29 Table of Contents Supplier Reserves We establish reserves against amounts due from our suppliers relating to various price and rebate incentives, including deductions or billings taken against payments otherwise due to them. These reserve estimates are established based on the judgment of management after carefully considering the status of current outstanding claims, historical experience with the suppliers, the specific incentive programs and any other pertinent information available to us. We evaluate the amounts due from our suppliers on a continual basis and adjust the reserve estimates when appropriate based on changes in factual circumstances. An increase or decrease of 0.1% in the 2009 supplier reserve balances as a percentage of trade payables would result in an increase or decrease in cost of goods sold by approximately $8.5 million. The ultimate outcome of any outstanding claim may be different from our estimate. Loss Contingencies An estimated loss contingency is accrued in our consolidated financial statements if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. We regularly review loss contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. The amount of the actual loss may differ significantly from these estimates. Merchandise Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost for approximately 75% and 78% of our inventories at September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively, has been determined using the last in, first out (LIFO) method. If we had used the first in, first out (FIFO) method of inventory valuation, which approximates current replacement cost, inventories would have been approximately $191.1 million and $176.0 higher than the amounts reported at September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We recorded a LIFO charge of $15.1 million, $21.1 million, and $2.2 million in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007 respectively. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, inventory declines resulted in liquidation of LIFO layers carried at lower costs prevailing in prior years. The effect of the liquidation in fiscal 2007 was to decrease cost of goods sold by $7.2 million and increase diluted earnings per share by $0.01. Business Combinations The purchase price of an acquired company is allocated between tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed from the acquired business based on their estimated fair values, with the residual of the purchase price recorded as goodwill. We engage third party appraisal firms to assist management in determining the fair values of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Such valuations require management to make significant judgments, estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Management makes estimates of fair value based upon assumptions it believes to be reasonable. These estimates are based on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies, and are inherently uncertain. Critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from and economic lives of customer relationships, trade names, existing technology, and other intangible assets; and discount rates. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual events. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized; rather, they are tested for impairment on at least an annual basis. Intangible assets with finite lives, primarily customer relationships, non compete agreements, patents and software technology, are amortized over their useful lives. In order to test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, a determination of the fair value of our reporting units and intangible assets with indefinite lives is required and is based, among other things, on estimates of future operating performance of the reporting unit and or the component of the entity being valued. We are required to complete an impairment test for goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives and record any resulting impairment losses at least on an annual basis or more often if warranted by events or changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying value may exceed fair value (impairment indicators). This impairment test includes the projection and discounting of cash flows, analysis of our market capitalization and estimating the fair values of tangible and intangible assets and liabilities. Estimating future cash flows and determining their present values are based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about expected future operating performance and appropriate discount rates determined by management. In fiscal 2009, due to the existence of impairment indicators at U.S. Bioservices, a specialty pharmacy company within the Companys Specialty Group, we performed an impairment test on the pharmacys trade name as of June 30, 2009, which resulted in an impairment charge of $8.9 million. In fiscal 2008, PMSI experienced certain customer losses and learned that it would lose its largest customer at the end of calendar 2008. As a result, and after considering other factors, we committed to a plan to divest PMSI. We performed an interim impairment test of our PMSI reporting unit and determined that its goodwill was impaired. Therefore, PMSI wrote off the carrying value of its goodwill of $199.1 million. In addition, we also recognized charges of $26.7 million to record the estimated loss on the sale of PMSI (see Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). We completed our required annual impairment tests relating to goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and 2008 and, as a result, recorded $1.6 million and $5.3 million of impairment charges, respectively. Our estimates of cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, economic conditions, changes to the business model, or changes in operating performance. Significant differences between these estimates and actual cash flows could materially affect our future financial results. 30 Table of Contents Share Based Compensation We utilize a binomial option pricing model to determine the fair value of share based compensation expense, which involves the use of several assumptions, including expected term of the option, future volatility, dividend yield and forfeiture rate. The expected term of options represents the period of time that the options granted are expected to be outstanding and is based on historical experience. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of our common stock as well as other factors, such as implied volatility. Income Taxes Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and uncertain tax positions reflect managements assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the financial statements. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for tax purposes. We have established a net valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain. Expiring carryforwards and the required valuation allowances are adjusted annually. After application of the valuation allowances described above, we anticipate that no limitations will apply with respect to utilization of any of the other net deferred income tax assets described above. During fiscal 2008, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740, Income Taxes (formerly referenced as FASB Financial Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109), which changed the framework for accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. We have established an estimated liability for federal, state and non U.S. income tax exposures that arise and meet the criteria for accrual. We prepare and file tax returns based on our interpretation of tax laws and regulations and record estimates based on these judgments and interpretations. In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax law resulting from legislation, regulation and or as concluded through the various jurisdictions tax court systems. We believe that our estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and tax contingency reserves are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. However, others applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop a different estimate and the amount ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amounts accrued. The significant assumptions and estimates described in the preceding paragraphs are important contributors to the ultimate effective tax rate in each year. If any of our assumptions or estimates were to change, an increase or decrease in our effective tax rate by 1% on income from continuing operations before income taxes would have caused income tax expense to change by $8.2 million in fiscal 2009. 31 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table illustrates our debt structure at September 30, 2009, including availability under revolving credit facilities and the receivables securitization facility (in thousands): Outstanding Additional Balance Availability Fixed Rate Debt: $400,000, 5 5/8% senior notes due 2012 $ 399,058 $ $500,000, 5 7/8% senior notes due 2015 498,339 Other 1,113 Total fixed rate debt 898,510 Variable Rate Debt: Blanco revolving credit facility due 2010 55,000 Multi currency revolving credit facility due 2011 224,026 456,990 Receivables securitization facility due 2010 700,000 Other 465 1,161 Total variable rate debt 279,491 1,158,151 Total debt, including current portion $ 1,178,001 $ 1,158,151 Along with our cash balances, our aggregate availability under our revolving credit facilities and our receivables securitization facility provides us sufficient sources of capital to fund our working capital requirements. In November 2009, we issued $400 million of 4 7/8% senior notes due November 15, 2019 (the 2019 Notes). The 2019 Notes were sold at 99.174% of the principal amount and have an effective yield of 4.98%. Interest on the 2019 Notes is payable semiannually, in arrears, commencing May 15, 2010. The 2019 Notes rank pari passu to the Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility and the 2012 Notes and the 2015 Notes (all defined below). We used the net proceeds of the 2019 Notes to repay substantially all amounts outstanding under our Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility and the remaining net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes. Costs incurred in connection with the issuance of the 2019 Notes will be deferred and amortized over the 10 year term of the notes. We have a $695 million multi currency senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which expires in November 2011, (the Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility) with a syndicate of lenders. (This amount reflects the reduction of $55 million in availability under the facility as a result of the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc.). Interest on borrowings under the Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility accrues at specified rates based on our debt rating and ranges from 19 basis points to 60 basis points over LIBOR/EURIBOR/Bankers Acceptance Stamping Fee, as applicable (40 basis points over LIBOR/EURIBOR/Bankers Acceptance Stamping Fee at September 30, 2009). Additionally, interest on borrowings denominated in Canadian dollars may accrue at the greater of the Canadian prime rate or the CDOR rate. We pay quarterly facility fees to maintain the availability under the Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility at specified rates based on our debt rating, ranging from 6 basis points to 15 basis points of the total commitment (10 basis points at September 30, 2009). We may choose to repay or reduce our commitments under the Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility at any time. The Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility contains covenants, including compliance with a financial leverage ratio test, as well as others that impose limitations on, among other things, indebtedness of excluded subsidiaries and asset sales. In April 2009, we amended our receivables securitization facility (Receivables Securitization Facility), electing to reduce the amount available under the facility from $975 million to $700 million and extend the expiration date to April 2010. We continue to have an accordion feature available to us whereby the commitment on the Receivables Securitization Facility may be increased by up to $250 million, subject to lender approval, for seasonal needs during the December and March quarters. Interest rates are based on prevailing market rates for short term commercial paper plus a program fee. We pay a commitment fee to maintain the availability under the Receivables Securitization Facility. The program fee and the commitment fee were 150 basis points and 75 basis points, respectively, at September 30, 2009. At September 30, 2009, there were no borrowings outstanding under the Receivables Securitization Facility. In connection with the Receivables Securitization Facility, ABDC sells on a revolving basis certain accounts receivable to Amerisource Receivables Financial Corporation, a wholly owned special purpose entity, which in turn sells a percentage ownership interest in the receivables to commercial paper conduits sponsored by financial institutions. ABDC is the servicer of the accounts receivable under the Receivables Securitization Facility. After the maximum limit of receivables sold has been reached and as sold receivables are collected, additional receivables may be sold up to the maximum amount available under the facility. We use the facility as a financing vehicle because it generally offers an attractive interest rate relative to other financing sources. We securitize our trade accounts, which are generally non interest bearing. The agreement governing the Receivables Securitization Facility contains restrictions and covenants which include limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, making of certain restricted payments, issuance of preferred stock, creation of certain liens, and certain corporate acts such as mergers, consolidations and sale of substantially all assets. 32 Table of Contents In April 2009, we amended the $55 million Blanco revolving credit facility, (the Blanco Credit Facility) to, among other things, extend the maturity date of the Blanco Credit Facility to April 2010. Borrowings under the Blanco Credit Facility are guaranteed by us. In connection with the April 2009 amendment, interest on borrowings under this facility increased from 55 basis points over LIBOR to 200 basis points over LIBOR. Additionally, we are required to pay quarterly facility fees of 50 basis points on any unused portion of the facility. The Blanco Credit Facility is not classified in the current portion of long term debt on the consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2009 because we have the ability and intent to refinance it on a long term basis. We have outstanding $400 million of 5 5/8% senior notes due September 15, 2012 (the 2012 Notes) and $500 million of 5 7/8% senior notes due September 15, 2015 (the 2015 Notes). The 2012 Notes and 2015 Notes each were sold at 99.5% of principal amount and have an effective yield of 5.71% and 5.94%, respectively. Interest on the 2012 Notes and the 2015 Notes is payable semiannually in arrears. Our operating results have generated cash flow, which, together with availability under our debt agreements and credit terms from suppliers, has provided sufficient capital resources to finance working capital and cash operating requirements, and to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, repayment of debt, the payment of interest on outstanding debt, dividends, and repurchases of shares of our common stock. Deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely affect the amount of prescriptions that are filled and the amount of pharmaceutical products purchased by consumers and, therefore, reduce purchases by our customers. In addition, volatility in financial markets may also negatively impact our customers ability to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms. Reduced purchases by our customers or changes in the ability of our customers to remit payments to us could adversely affect our revenue growth, our profitability, and our cash flow from operations. In September 2008, one of our lenders under the Multi Currency Revolving Credit Facility filed for bankruptcy, and as a result, our availability under this facility was reduced by $55 million to $695 million. We continue to monitor the creditworthiness of our lenders and while we do not currently anticipate the failure of any additional lenders under our revolving credit facilities and or under the liquidity facilities of our receivables securitization facility, the failure of any further lenders could have an adverse effect on our ability to finance our business operations. Our primary ongoing cash requirements will be to finance working capital, fund the payment of interest on debt, fund repurchases of our common stock, finance acquisitions and fund capital expenditures (including our Business Transformation Project) and routine growth and expansion through new business opportunities. In November 2008, our board of directors approved a program allowing us to purchase up to $500 million of our outstanding shares of common stock, subject to market conditions. We purchased $450.0 million of our common stock in fiscal 2009, of which $431.9 million was purchased under the above mentioned program and $18.1 million was purchased to close out the May 2007 share repurchase program. As of September 30, 2009, we had $68.1 million of availability remaining on our $500 million share repurchase program. In November 2009, our board of directors approved a new program authorizing us to purchase up to $500 million of our outstanding shares of common stock, subject to market conditions. We expect to purchase approximately $350 million of our common stock in fiscal 2010, subject to market conditions. Future cash flows from operations and borrowings are expected to be sufficient to fund our ongoing cash requirements. Following is a summary of our contractual obligations for future principal and interest payments on our debt, minimum rental payments on our noncancelable operating leases and minimum payments on our other commitments at September 30, 2009 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Within 1 After 5 Total year 1 3 years 4 5 years years Debt, including interest payments $ 1,425,724 $ 108,958 $ 728,641 $ 58,750 $ 529,375 Operating leases 238,912 52,344 75,125 36,405 75,038 Other commitments 859,489 275,432 389,052 165,654 29,351 Total $ 2,524,125 $ 436,734 $ 1,192,818 $ 260,809 $ 633,764 The $55 million Blanco Credit Facility, which expires in April 2010, is included in the Within 1 year column in the above table. However, this borrowing is not classified in the current portion of long term debt on the consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2009 because we have the ability and intent to refinance it on a long term basis. We have commitments to purchase product from influenza vaccine manufacturers through June 30, 2015. We are required to purchase annual doses at prices that we believe will represent market prices. We currently estimate our remaining purchase commitment under these agreements, as amended, will be approximately $270.2 million as of September 30, 2009. These influenza vaccine commitments are included in Other commitments in the above table. 33 Table of Contents We have commitments to purchase blood products from suppliers through December 31, 2012. We are required to purchase quantities at prices that we believe will represent market prices. We currently estimate our remaining purchase commitment under these agreements will be approximately $421.6 million as of September 30, 2009. These blood product commitments are included in Other commitments in the above table. We have outsourced to IBM Global Services (IBM) a significant portion of our corporate and ABDC information technology activities and, in fiscal 2009, expanded and amended our relationship by engaging IBM to provide assistance with the implementation of our new enterprise resource planning (ERP) platform. The remaining commitment under our ten year arrangement, as amended, which expires in June 2015, is approximately $134.8 million and is included in Other commitments in the above table. Our liability for uncertain tax positions was $54.4 million as of September 30, 2009. This liability represents an estimate of tax positions that we have taken in our tax returns which may ultimately not be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. Since the amount and timing of any future cash settlements cannot be predicted with reasonable certainty, the estimated liability has been excluded from the contractual obligations table on page 33. During fiscal 2009, our operating activities provided $783.8 million of cash as compared to cash provided of $737.1 million in the prior fiscal year. Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2009 was principally the result of income from continuing operations of $511.9 million, non cash items of $254.0 million, and an increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and income taxes of $1,259.6 million, offset, in part, by an increase in merchandise inventories of $765.0 million and an increase in accounts receivable of $457.8 million. Non cash items included the provision for deferred income taxes of $84.3 million, which primarily related to income tax deductions associated with merchandise inventories. The increase in accounts receivable, merchandise inventories and accounts payable, accrued expenses and income taxes all principally related to our 12% revenue growth in the month of September 2009 in comparison to the prior year month. Additionally, our merchandise inventory and related accounts payable balances were also impacted by inventory purchases of approximately $400 million in the month of September 2009, primarily relating to the purchase of generic products due to a recent product launch and purchases made in advance of a manufacturers temporary plant shut down in connection with its facility consolidation efforts. The average number of days sales outstanding in fiscal 2009 decreased to 18.1 days from 18.7 days in fiscal 2008 primarily due to favorable customer mix within ABDC. The number of average inventory days on hand in fiscal 2009 and 2008 was consistent at 25 days. Additionally, the number of average days payable outstanding in fiscal 2009 and 2008 was relatively consistent at 32.8 days and 32.6 days, respectively. Operating cash uses during fiscal 2009 included $56.9 million in interest payments and $192.9 million of income tax payments, net of refunds. During fiscal 2008, our operating activities provided $737.1 million of cash as compared to cash provided of $1,207.9 million in the prior fiscal year. Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2008 was principally the result of income from continuing operations of $469.1 million, non cash items of $218.1 million, and an increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and income taxes of $53.7 million. Non cash items included the provision for deferred income taxes of $62.1 million, which was significantly higher than the prior fiscal year due to the increase in income tax deductions associated with merchandise inventories. Merchandise inventories increased slightly despite the 7% increase in total revenue, as the number of average inventory days on hand decreased by 2 days compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to the continued benefits achieved from the consolidation of our distribution network and strong inventory management. Accounts receivable declined by $8.7 million from the prior fiscal year compared to the increase in sales as average days sales outstanding declined from 19.4 days in fiscal 2007 to 18.7 days in fiscal 2008 due to changes in customer mix including the July 1, 2008 sales reduction with a large chain customer. Additionally ABDC, which has lower average days sales outstanding than ABSG, grew faster than ABSG in fiscal 2008. Accounts payable, accrued expenses and income taxes grew less than revenues due to the reversal of favorable timing at the end of fiscal 2007. Average days payable outstanding in fiscal 2008 declined by 1/2 of one day from the prior fiscal year. Operating cash uses during fiscal 2008 included $68.5 million in interest payments and $262.9 million of income tax payments, net of refunds. During fiscal 2007, our operating activities provided $1,207.9 million of cash as compared to cash provided of $807.3 million in the prior fiscal year. Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2007 was principally the result of income from continuing operations of $474.8 million, non cash items of $186.9 million, an increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and income taxes of $507.6 million, and a decrease in merchandise inventories of $286.1 million, partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $236.0 million. The increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and income taxes was primarily driven by the increase in sales and days payable outstanding. Days payable outstanding in fiscal 2007 increased by 2 days from the prior fiscal year due to favorable timing of payments to our suppliers and the strong growth of ABSG, which has a higher days payable outstanding ratio than ABDC because certain of ABSGs businesses have more favorable payment terms with their suppliers. The inventory turnover rate for the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment improved to 13.6 times in fiscal 2007 from 12.2 times in the prior fiscal year. The number of inventory days on hand decreased compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to the benefits resulting from having completed our integration plan to consolidate the ABDC distribution network and the strong growth of ABSGs business, which has lower inventory days on hand requirements. After several years of consolidation activity, the 26 U.S. ABDC distribution facilities in fiscal 2007 provided a stable distribution network environment, which combined with strong inventory management, resulted in a significant reduction in safety stock inventory. The increase in accounts receivable was due to the increase in operating revenue and an increase in average days sales outstanding for the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment. Average days sales outstanding for the Pharmaceutical Distribution segment increased to 18.8 days in fiscal 2007 from 16.7 days in the prior fiscal year. This increase was largely driven by the above market rate growth of the Specialty Group, which generally has a higher receivable investment than the ABDC distribution business. Operating cash uses during fiscal 2007 included $65.9 million in interest payments and $253.2 million of income tax payments, net of refunds. 34 Table of Contents Capital expenditures in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $145.8 million, $137.3 million, and $111.3 million, respectively. We currently estimate that we will spend approximately $140 million for capital expenditures during fiscal 2010. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2009 related principally to our Business Transformation project, which includes a new ERP platform that will be implemented in ABDC and our corporate office, and improvements made to our operating facilities. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2008 related principally to improving our information technology infrastructure, which included a significant purchase of software relating to our Business Transformation project, the expansion of our ABPG production facility in Rockford, Illinois, and investments in warehouse expansions and improvements. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2007 related principally to improving our information technology infrastructure, investments in ABDC warehouse expansions, equipment investments at ABSG and ABPG, equipment and furniture related to ABSGs new corporate facility, and ABPGs Illinois facility expansion. In May 2009, we acquired Innomar, a Canadian specialty pharmaceutical services company, for a purchase price of $13.4 million, net of a working capital adjustment. In October 2008, we sold PMSI for approximately $31 million, net of a final working capital adjustment. We received cash totaling $11.9 million and a $19 million subordinated note due from PMSI on the fifth anniversary of the closing date. In October 2007, we purchased Bellco, a privately held New York distributor of branded and generic pharmaceuticals, for a purchase price of $162.2 million, net of cash acquired. In October 2006, we acquired IgG, a specialty pharmacy and infusion services business specializing in IVIG, for $37.2 million. In November 2006, we acquired AMD, a Canadian company that provides services including reimbursement support and nursing support services, for $13.4 million. In April 2007, we acquired Xcenda, a consulting business which applies customized solutions and innovative approaches that discover and communicate the value of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare technologies, for $25.2 million. Additionally, in fiscal 2007, in connection with our fiscal 2006 acquisition of Brecon, we made a contingent payment in the amount of $7.6 million to the former owners of Brecon. We also made payments of $2.9 million in fiscal 2007 related to certain prior period acquisitions. Net cash provided by investing activities in fiscal 2008 and 2007 included purchases and sales of short term investment securities. Net proceeds (purchases) relating to these investment activities in fiscal 2008 and 2007 were $467.4 million and $(399.6) million, respectively. These short term investment securities primarily consisted of commercial paper and tax exempt variable rate demand notes used to maximize our after tax interest income. We do not have any short term investment securities as of September 30, 2009, nor have we purchased or sold short term investment securities since the quarter ended March 31, 2008. Net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2007 also included proceeds from the sales of property and equipment, primarily related to the sale of certain distribution facilities and proceeds from the sales of other assets, which principally related to the sale of certain retail pharmacy assets of our former Long Term Care business. Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007 included net (repayments) borrowings of $(8.8) million, $(16.4) million, and $101.8 million, respectively, under our revolving and securitization credit facilities. The net borrowings in fiscal 2007 were primarily related to our Canadian operations. In connection with the spin off transaction, Long Term Care borrowed $125.0 million from a financial institution, and provided a one time distribution to us. This distribution was reflected as a financing activity in fiscal 2007 on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. During fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, we purchased a total of $450.4 million, $679.7 million, and $1,434.4 million, respectively, of our common stock in connection with our share repurchase programs, which are summarized below. In August 2006, our board of directors authorized a program allowing the purchase of up to $750 million of our outstanding shares of common stock. During fiscal 2007, we purchased 31.1 million shares of our common stock to complete this program. In May 2007, our board of directors authorized a program allowing the purchase of up to $850 million of our outstanding shares of common stock, subject to market conditions. During fiscal 2007, we purchased $652.6 million under this program. In November 2007, our board of directors authorized an increase to the $850 million share repurchase program by $500 million, subject to market conditions. During fiscal 2008, we purchased $679.7 million under this program. During fiscal 2009, we purchased 1.2 million shares of our common stock to complete this program. In November 2008, our board of directors authorized a program allowing the purchase of up to $500 million of our outstanding shares of common stock, subject to market conditions. During fiscal 2009, we purchased $431.9 million under this program. We have $68.1 million of availability remaining under this share repurchase program as of September 30, 2009. 35 Table of Contents In November 2009, our board of directors authorized a new program allowing us to purchase up to $500 million of our outstanding shares of common stock, subject to market conditions. During fiscal 2008 and 2007, we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.0375 and $0.025 per share, respectively. In November 2008, our board of directors increased the quarterly dividend by 33% to $0.05 per share. During the first three quarters of fiscal 2009, we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.05 per share. In May 2009, our board of directors increased the quarterly cash dividend by 20% to $0.06 per share and in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per share. On November 12, 2009, our board of directors increased the quarterly dividend again by 33% from $0.06 per share to $0.08 per share. We anticipate that we will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future. However, the payment and amount of future dividends remain within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our future earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors. Market Risk Our most significant market risk is the effect of fluctuations in interest rates relating to our debt. We manage interest rate risk by using a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt. At September 30, 2009, we had $279.5 million of variable rate debt outstanding. The amount of variable rate debt fluctuates during the year based on our working capital requirements. We periodically evaluate financial instruments to manage our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates. However, there are no assurances that such instruments will be available on terms acceptable to us. There were no such financial instruments in effect at September 30, 2009. We also have market risk exposure to interest rate fluctuations relating to our cash and cash equivalents. We had $1.0 billion in cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2009. The unfavorable impact of a hypothetical decrease in interest rates on cash and cash equivalents would be partially offset by the favorable impact of such a decrease on variable rate debt. For every $100 million of cash invested that is in excess of variable rate debt, a 10 basis point decrease in interest rates would increase our annual net interest expense by $0.1 million. We are exposed to foreign currency and exchange rate risk from our non U.S. operations. Our largest exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with the Canadian Dollar. We may utilize foreign currency denominated forward contracts to hedge against changes in foreign exchange rates. Such contracts generally have durations of less than one year. We had no foreign currency denominated forward contracts at September 30, 2009. We may use derivative instruments to hedge our foreign currency exposure but not for speculative or trading purposes. Recent Accounting Pronouncements On July 1, 2009, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2009 1, Topic 105 Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, which amended Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 105, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, to establish the Codification as the source of authoritative GAAP recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities. Rules and interpretive releases of the SEC under authority of federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants. On the effective date, the Codification superseded all then existing non SEC accounting and reporting standards. All previous references to the superseded standards in our consolidated financial statements have been replaced by references to the applicable sections of the Codification. The adoption of these sections did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. In the first quarter of fiscal 2009, we adopted ASC 820 10, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, (formerly referenced as SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This new accounting standard did not require any new fair value measurements. ASC 820 10 defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (exit price). ASC 820 10 establishes a fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three levels. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 inputs are observable other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 inputs are generally unobservable and typically reflect managements estimates of assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. At September 30, 2009, we had $928.3 million of investments in a money market account, which was valued as a level 1 investment. Effective October 1, 2009, we will apply the provisions of ASC 820 10 to fair value measurements relating to all nonfinancial assets and liabilities, such as goodwill and other intangible assets, that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis. This adoption is not expected to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. 36 Table of Contents During the first quarter of fiscal 2009, we adopted ASC 825 10, Financial Instruments (formerly referenced as SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115), which allows companies to choose to measure eligible financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not otherwise required to be measured at fair value. We have not elected the fair value option for any eligible financial instruments not already required to be measured at fair value. On June 30, 2009, we adopted ASC 855 10, Subsequent Events, which establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are issued. We evaluated subsequent events through the date and time our financial statements were issued on November 25, 2009. Effective October 1, 2009, we will adopt the applicable sections of ASC 805, Business Combinations, which provides revised guidance for recognizing and measuring identifiable assets and goodwill acquired, liabilities assumed, and any non controlling interest in the acquiree of a business combination. Additionally, this ASC provides disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. We will also adopt certain other applicable sections that address application issues raised on the initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement and accounting and disclosure of assets and liabilities from contingencies from a business combination. The application of ASC 805 relating to an acquisition or divestiture subsequent to September 30, 2009 may have an impact to our financial condition and or results of operations. Forward Looking Statements Certain of the statements contained in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MDA) and elsewhere in this report are forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements are based on managements current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and change in circumstances. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied are the following: changes in pharmaceutical market growth rates; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships; changes in customer mix; customer delinquencies, defaults or insolvencies; supplier defaults or insolvencies; changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers pricing and distribution policies or practices; adverse resolution of any contract or other dispute with customers or suppliers; federal and state government enforcement initiatives to detect and prevent suspicious orders of controlled substances and the diversion of controlled substances; qui tam litigation for alleged violations of laws and regulations governing the marketing, sale and purchase of pharmaceutical products; changes in U.S. legislation or regulatory action affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or reimbursement policies, including under Medicaid and Medicare; changes in regulatory or clinical medical guidelines and or labeling for the pharmaceutical products we distribute, including certain anemia products; price inflation in branded pharmaceuticals and price deflation in generics; significant breakdown or interruption of our information technology systems; our inability to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle business and financial processes within AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporations operations and our corporate functions without operating problems and or cost overruns; success of integration, restructuring or systems initiatives; interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; economic, business, competitive and or regulatory developments in Canada, the United Kingdom and elsewhere outside of the United States, including potential changes in Canadian provincial legislation affecting pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees or regulatory action by provincial authorities in Canada to lower pharmaceutical product pricing or service fees; the impact of divestitures or the acquisition of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate or control; our inability to successfully complete any other transaction that we may wish to pursue from time to time; changes in tax legislation or adverse resolution of challenges to our tax positions; increased costs of maintaining, or reductions in our ability to maintain, adequate liquidity and financing sources; volatility and deterioration of the capital and credit markets; and other economic, business, competitive, legal, tax, regulatory and or operational factors affecting our business generally. Certain additional factors that management believes could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those described in forward looking statements are set forth elsewhere in this MDA, in Item 1A (Risk Factors), Item 1 (Business) and elsewhere in this report. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Companys most significant market risks are the effects of changing interest rates and foreign currency risk. See discussion on page 36 under the heading Market Risk, which is incorporated by reference herein. 37 Table of Contents 
