FILE:AIG/AIG-8K-20050106155547.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 ------------------------ FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): January 6, 2005 AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) Delaware 1-8787 13-2592361 (State or Other (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Jurisdiction of Identification No.) Incorporation) 70 Pine Street New York, New York 10270 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 770-7000 ------------------------------------------ (Former name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers. On January 6, 2005, American International Group, Inc. (AIG) issued a press release announcing, among other things, that Steven J. Bensinger, age 49, has been named AIG Comptroller in addition to his current duties as AIG Treasurer and that he has been elected an AIG Senior Vice President. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. Prior to joining AIG in September 2002, Mr. Bensinger was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Combined Specialty Group, Inc. (a division of Aon Corporation) commencing in March 2002, and served as Executive Vice President of Trenwick Group, Ltd. from October 1999 through December 2001 and as President of Chartwell Re Corp. from March 1993 until October 1999. The press release also announced that Michael J. Castelli, who has served since 2000 as AIG Comptroller, has been named AIG Chief Administrative Officer and elected an AIG Senior Vice President. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. (Registrant) Date: January 6, 2005 By /s/ KATHLEEN E. SHANNON ------------------------------------ Name: Kathleen E. Shannon Title: Senior Vice President and Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release of American International Group, Inc. dated January 6, 2005.

EXHIBIT 99.1 NEWS [AIG LOGO] Contact: Joe Norton Director of Public Relations 212/770-3144 AIG ANNOUNCES SENIOR MANAGEMENT APPOINTMENTS -------------------------------------------- NEW YORK, January 6, 2005 - American International Group, Inc. (AIG) has announced the following senior management appointments: Steven J. Bensinger, who has served since 2002 as AIG Treasurer, has been named AIG Comptroller in addition to his current duties. He has also been elected an AIG Senior Vice President, and will continue to report to Howard I. Smith, AIG Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Smith said, "During his relatively short time with AIG, Steve has solidified all aspects of the Treasurer's role, both internally and externally, by managing AIG's relationships with rating agencies, commercial banks and investment banks." Prior to joining AIG, Mr. Bensinger was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Combined Specialty Group, Inc., the insurance underwriting operation of Aon Corporation. Previously, he held senior executive positions at Trenwick Group Ltd., at Chartwell Re before its acquisition by Trenwick, and at Skandia America Reinsurance Corporation. Prior to that, he was a partner in the New York insurance practice of PricewaterhouseCoopers. Michael J. Castelli, who has served since 2000 as AIG Comptroller, has been named AIG Chief Administrative Officer and elected an AIG Senior Vice President. Based in New York, Mr. Castelli's oversight responsibilities will include management consulting, purchasing, real estate, security, food services and travel. He will continue to report to Mr. Smith. Mr. Smith said, "Mike Castelli has made significant contributions to AIG during his tenure as Comptroller, most recently having an integral role in complying with the complex demands of the new Sarbannes-Oxley reporting requirements." Mr. Castelli joined AIG in 1989 as Assistant Vice President and Comptroller of its Domestic General Insurance operations. He subsequently served as Vice President, Comptroller and Treasurer of Domestic General Insurance and as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Domestic General Insurance units. He was elected AIG Vice President and Deputy Comptroller in 1998. Prior to joining AIG, Mr. Castelli was in the insurance industry practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers. # # # American International Group, Inc. (AIG) is the world's leading international insurance and financial services organization, with operations in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIG member companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through the most extensive worldwide property-casualty and life insurance networks of any insurer. In the United States, AIG companies are the largest underwriters of commercial and industrial insurance and AIG American General is a top-ranked life insurer. AIG's global businesses also include retirement services, financial services and asset management. AIG's financial services businesses include aircraft leasing, financial products, trading and market making. AIG's growing global consumer finance business is led in the United States by American General Finance. AIG also has one of the largest U.S. retirement services businesses through AIG SunAmerica and AIG VALIC, and is a leader in asset management for the individual and institutional markets, with specialized investment management capabilities in equities, fixed income, alternative investments and real estate. AIG's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the stock exchanges in London, Paris, Switzerland and Tokyo. # # # American International Group, Inc. 70 Pine Street, New York, NY 10270


