FILE:AIG/AIG-8K-20050620172847.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 ------------------------ FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): June 16, 2005 AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) Delaware 1-8787 13-2592361 (State or Other (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Jurisdiction of Identification No.) Incorporation) 70 Pine Street New York, New York 10270 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 770-7000 ------------------------------------------ (Former name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year. On June 16, 2005, the Board of Directors of American International Group, Inc. (AIG), adopted an amendment to AIG's By-laws in order to provide that the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be a director who is independent under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. A copy of AIG's By-laws, as so amended, is attached as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein. Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure. On June 17, 2005, AIG announced in a press release the record date and date of AIG's Annual Meeting of Shareholders and that the AIG Board of Directors approved changes in AIG's By-laws and Corporate Governance Guidelines to reflect the Board's current belief that the Chairman should be an independent director and that at least two-thirds of the directors should be independent under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. A copy of the Corporate Governance Guidelines, as amended on June 16, 2005, described in the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The information furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under such Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of AIG under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits. Exhibit 3.1 American International Group, Inc. By-laws, as amended on June 16, 2005. Exhibit 99.1 American International Group, Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines, as amended on June 16, 2005. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. (Registrant) Date: June 20, 2005 By /s/ KATHLEEN E. SHANNON ------------------------------------ Name: Kathleen E. Shannon Title: Senior Vice President and Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 3.1 American International Group, Inc. By-laws, as amended on June 16, 2005. 99.1 American International Group, Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines, as amended June 16, 2005.

EXHIBIT 3.1 AMENDED JUNE 16, 2005 AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. BY-LAWS ARTICLE I Stockholders Section 1.1. Annual Meetings. An annual meeting of stockholders shall be held for the election of directors at such date, time and place either within or without the State of Delaware as may be designated by the Board of Directors from time to time. Any other proper business may be transacted at the annual meeting. Section 1.2. Special Meetings. Special meetings of stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Chairman, a Vice Chairman, if any, the President, if any, the Secretary or the Board of Directors, to be held at such date, time and place either within or without the State of Delaware as may be stated in the notice of the meeting. A special meeting of stockholders shall be called by the Secretary upon the written request, stating the purpose of the meeting, of stockholders who together own of record twenty-five percent of the outstanding shares of each class of stock entitled to vote at such meeting. Section 1.3. Notice of Meetings. Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice of the meeting shall be given which shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Unless otherwise provided by law, the written notice of any meeting shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of such meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. No business other than that stated in the notice shall be transacted at any special meeting without the unanimous consent of all the stockholders entitled to vote thereat. Section 1.4. Adjournments. Any meeting of stockholders, annual or special, may adjourn from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken; provided, that if the adjournment is for more
than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting. At the adjourned meeting the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. Section 1.5. Quorum. At each meeting of stockholders, except where otherwise provided by law or the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of each class of stock entitled to vote at the meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum. In the absence of a quorum, the stockholders so present may, by majority vote, adjourn the meeting from time to time in the manner provided by Section 1.4 of these by-laws until a quorum shall attend. Shares of its own capital stock belonging on the record date for the meeting to the Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not limit the right of the Corporation to vote stock, including but not limited to its own stock, held by it in a fiduciary capacity. Section 1.6. Organization. Meetings of stockholders shall be presided over by the Chairman, or in the absence of the Chairman by the President, or in the absence of the President by a Vice Chairman, if any, or in the absence of a Vice Chairman by a Vice President, or in the absence of the foregoing persons by a chairman designated by the Board of Directors, or in the absence of such designation by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, or in the absence of the Secretary an Assistant Secretary shall so act, or in their absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting. Section 1.7. Classes or Series of Stock; Voting Proxies. For purposes of this Article I, two or more classes or series of stock shall be considered a single class if and to the extent that the holders thereof are entitled to vote together as a single class at the meeting. Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation, each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by such stockholder which has voting power upon the matter in question. Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders or to express consent or dissent to corporate action in writing without a meeting may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A duly executed proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by filing an instrument in writing revoking the proxy or another duly executed proxy bearing a later date with the Secretary of the Corporation. Voting at meetings of stockholders need not be by written ballot and need not be conducted by inspectors unless the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of all classes of stock entitled to vote thereon present in person or by proxy at such meeting shall so determine. At all meetings of stockholders for the election of directors a plurality of the votes cast shall be sufficient to 2
elect. With respect to other matters, unless otherwise provided by law or by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of all classes of stock present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders, provided that (except as otherwise required by law or by the certificate of incorporation) the Board of Directors may require a larger vote upon any such matter. Where a separate vote by class is required, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of each class present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting shall be the act of such class, except as otherwise provided by law or by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws. Section 1.8. Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of any meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action. If no record date is fixed: (1) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; (2) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the board is necessary, shall be the day on which the first written consent is expressed; and (3) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting. Section 1.9. List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote. The Secretary shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. Section 1.10. Consent of Stockholders in Lieu of Meeting. Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation, any action required by law to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, or any action which may be 3
taken at any annual or special meeting of such stockholders, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing. Section 1.11. Advance Notice of Stockholder Nominees for Director and Other Stockholder Proposals. (a) The matters to be considered and brought before any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation shall be limited to only such matters, including the nomination and election of directors, as shall be brought properly before such meeting in compliance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.11. (b) For any matter to be properly brought before any annual meeting of stockholders, the matter must be (i) specified in the notice of annual meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) brought before the annual meeting in the manner specified in this Section 1.11(b)(x) by a stockholder that holds of record stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at the annual meeting on such matter (including any election of a director) or (y) by a person (a "Nominee Holder") that holds such stock through a nominee or "street name" holder of record of such stock and can demonstrate to the Corporation such indirect ownership of, and such Nominee Holder's entitlement to vote, such stock on such matter. In addition to any other requirements under applicable law, the certificate of incorporation and these by-laws, persons nominated by stockholders for election as directors of the Corporation and any other proposals by stockholders shall be properly brought before an annual meeting of stockholders only if notice of any such matter to be presented by a stockholder at such meeting (a "Stockholder Notice") shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not less than ninety nor more than one hundred and twenty days prior to the first anniversary date of the annual meeting for the preceding year; provided, however, that if and only if the annual meeting is not scheduled to be held within a period that commences thirty days before and ends thirty days after such anniversary date (an annual meeting date outside such period being referred to herein as an "Other Meeting Date"), such Stockholder Notice shall be given in the manner provided herein by the later of (i) the close of business on the date ninety days prior to such Other Meeting Date or (ii) the close of business on the tenth day following the date on which such Other Meeting Date is first publicly announced or disclosed. Any stockholder desiring to nominate any person or persons (as the case may be) for election as a director or directors of the Corporation at an annual meeting of stockholders shall deliver, as part of such Stockholder Notice, a statement in writing setting forth the name of the person or persons to be nominated, the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Corporation owned of record and beneficially by each such person, as reported to such stockholder by such person, the information regarding each such person required by paragraphs (a), (e) and (f) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, each such person's signed consent to serve as a director of the Corporation if elected, such stockholder's name and address, 4
the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Corporation owned of record and beneficially by such stockholder and, in the case of a Nominee Holder, evidence establishing such Nominee Holder's indirect ownership of stock and entitlement to vote such stock for the election of directors at the annual meeting. Any stockholder who gives a Stockholder Notice of any matter (other than a nomination for director) proposed to be brought before an annual meeting of stockholders shall deliver, as part of such Stockholder Notice, the text of the proposal to be presented and a brief written statement of the reasons why such stockholder favors the proposal and setting forth such stockholder's name and address, the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Corporation owned of record and beneficially by such stockholder, any material interest of such stockholder in the matter proposed (other than as a stockholder), if applicable, and, in the case of a Nominee Holder, evidence establishing such Nominee Holder's indirect ownership of stock and entitlement to vote such stock on the matter proposed at the annual meeting. As used in these by-laws, shares "beneficially owned" shall mean all shares which such person is deemed to beneficially own pursuant to Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). If a stockholder is entitled to vote only for a specific class or category of directors at a meeting (annual or special), such stockholder's right to nominate one or more individuals for election as a director at the meeting shall be limited to such class or category of directors. Notwithstanding any provision of this Section 1.11 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at the next annual meeting of stockholders is increased by virtue of an increase in the size of the Board of Directors and either all of the nominees for director at the next annual meeting of stockholders or the size of the increased Board of Directors is not publicly announced or disclosed by the Corporation at least one hundred days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a Stockholder Notice shall also be considered timely hereunder, but only with respect to nominees to stand for election at the next annual meeting as the result of any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the first day on which all such nominees or the size of the increased Board of Directors shall have been publicly announced or disclosed. (c) Except as provided in the immediately following sentence, no matter shall be properly brought before a special meeting of stockholders unless such matter shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of such meeting. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of such director(s) at such meeting may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as are specified in the Corporation's notice of such meeting, but only if the Stockholder Notice required by Section 1.11(b) hereof shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the first day on which the date of the special meeting and either the names of all nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting or the number of directors to be elected shall have been publicly announced or disclosed. 5
(d) For purposes of this Section 1.11, a matter shall be deemed to have been "publicly announced or disclosed" if such matter is disclosed in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, the Associated Press or a comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission. (e) In no event shall the adjournment of an annual meeting or a special meeting, or any announcement thereof, commence a new period for the giving of notice as provided in this Section 1.11. This Section 1.11 shall not apply to (i) any stockholder proposal made pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) any nomination of a director in an election in which only the holders of one or more series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation issued pursuant to Article FOUR of the certificate of incorporation are entitled to vote (unless otherwise provided in the terms of such stock). (f) The chairman of any meeting of stockholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall have the power and duty to determine whether notice of nominees and other matters proposed to be brought before a meeting has been duly given in the manner provided in this Section 1.11 and, if not so given, shall direct and declare at the meeting that such nominees and other matters shall not be considered. Section 1.12. Approval of Stockholder Proposals. Except as otherwise required by law, any matter (other than a nomination for director) that has been properly brought before an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation by a stockholder (including a Nominee Holder) in compliance with the procedures set forth in Section 1.11 shall require for approval thereof the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than a majority of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation and all other outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter, with such outstanding shares of Common Stock and other stock considered for this purpose as a single class. Any vote of stockholders required by this Section 1.12 shall be in addition to any other vote of stockholders of the Corporation that may be required by law, the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, by any agreement with a national securities exchange or otherwise. ARTICLE II Board of Directors Section 2.1. Powers; Number; Qualifications. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise provided by law or in the certificate of incorporation. The Board shall consist of not less than seven nor more than 21 members, the number thereof to be determined from time to time by the Board; provided, however, that in determining the number of directors no account shall be taken of any non-voting director, including any advisory or honorary director, that may be elected from time to time by a majority of the Board of Directors. The number of directors may be increased by amendment of these 6
by-laws by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of all classes of stock entitled to vote thereon, and by like vote the additional directors may be elected to hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders and until their respective successors are elected and qualified or until their respective earlier resignations or removals. Directors need not be stockholders. Section 2.2. Election; Term of Office; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies. Each director shall hold office until the annual meeting of stockholders next succeeding his or her election and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board of Directors or to the Chairman or the Secretary of the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, and no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective. Any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed, with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors; and any vacancy so created may be filled by the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors. Whenever the holders of any class or series of stock are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, the provisions of the preceding sentence shall apply, in respect to the removal without cause of a director or directors so elected, to the vote of the holders of the outstanding shares of that class or series and not to the vote of the outstanding shares as a whole. Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, vacancies (other than any vacancy created by removal of a director by shareholder vote) and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors elected by all of the stockholders having the right to vote as a single class or from any other cause may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, vacancies and newly created directorships of such class or classes or series may, unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation, be filled by a majority of the directors elected by such class or classes or series thereof then in office, or by the sole remaining director so elected. Section 2.3. Regular Meetings. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at such places within or without the State of Delaware and at such times as the Board may from time to time determine, and if so determined notice thereof need not be given. Section 2.4. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time or place within or without the State of Delaware whenever called by the Chairman or by the President or on the written request of any two directors. Reasonable notice thereof shall be given by the person calling the meeting. Section 2.5. Participation in Meetings by Conference Telephone Permitted. Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, members of the 7
Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board, may participate in a meeting of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this by-law shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. Section 2.6. Quorum; Vote Required for Action. At all meetings of the Board of Directors a majority of the entire Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board unless the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws shall require a vote of a greater number. In case at any meeting of the Board a quorum shall not be present, a majority of the members of the Board present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall attend, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which adjournment is taken. Section 2.7. Chairman. The Board of Directors shall annually select one of its members who is independent under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards to be Chairman and shall fill any vacancy in the position of Chairman at such time and in such manner as the Board of Directors shall determine. Section 2.8. Organization. Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chairman or, in the absence of the Chairman by the President or, in the absence of the President, by a Vice Chairman, if any, or in their absence by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary, or in the absence of the Secretary an Assistant Secretary, shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in the absence of the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting. Section 2.9. Action by Directors Without a Meeting. Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee. Section 2.10. Compensation of Directors. The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors. ARTICLE III Committees Section 3.1. Committees. The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of two or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more 8
directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent permitted by applicable law and provided in the resolution of the Board or in these by-laws, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Such committee or committees shall have such name or names as may be stated in these by-laws or as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors. The committees shall keep regular minutes of their proceedings and report the same to the Board of Directors when required. If the committee is for the purpose of managing the business of a division of the Corporation, at the option of the Board of Directors and provided that two directors serve on such committee, one or more of the members of the committee may be an officer or officers or employee or employees of the Corporation or a subsidiary thereof who are not directors, provided further that neither the quorum nor any action of the committee shall be determined by the presence or vote of any such member who is not a director. The Executive Committee, if one shall be designated, to the extent permitted by applicable law shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Except as otherwise provided from time to time in resolutions passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, the powers and authority of the Executive Committee shall include the power and authority to declare a dividend on stock, to authorize the issuance of stock and to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Except as otherwise provided from time to time in resolutions passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, the power and authority of the Executive Committee shall not include the power or authority to nominate persons to serve as directors or to fill vacancies or newly created directorships, which power and authority shall be vested in the Board of Directors. The Audit Committee, if one shall be designated, shall be composed of at least three directors, all of whom shall be persons who are not officers or employees of the Corporation or any of its parents or affiliates. Such Committee shall have the duty to advise the Board of Directors and the officers generally in matters relating to audits of the records of account of the Corporation and its subsidiaries. Such Committee shall recommend to the Board of Directors the nomination of the independent public accountants for the ensuing fiscal year, shall meet from time to time with the independent public accountants to review the scope of any proposed audit and to review the financial statements of the Corporation and its subsidiaries and the public accountants' certificate relating thereto, and may also meet with such internal auditors as may be employed by the Corporation or its subsidiaries. 9
The Finance Committee, if one shall be designated, shall direct the financial and investment policy of the Corporation. Subject to the control of the Board of Directors, it shall have power to invest and reinvest the assets of the Corporation in such securities or other property as it may elect and to change such investments at such time or times as it may deem proper, all subject to the requirements of law, and to assist, counsel and advise the Finance and Investment Committees of the Corporation's subsidiaries. All action taken by the Finance Committee shall be reported to the Board at its meeting next succeeding such action. Section 3.2. Committee Rules. Unless the Board of Directors otherwise provides, each committee designated by the Board may adopt, amend and repeal rules for the conduct of its business. In the absence of a provision by the Board or a provision in the rules of such committee to the contrary, a majority of the members of such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, the vote of a majority of the members present at a meeting at the time of such vote if a quorum is then present shall be the act of such committee, and in other respects each committee shall conduct its business in the same manner as the Board conducts its business pursuant to Article II of these by-laws. ARTICLE IV Officers Section 4.1. Officers; Election. As soon as practicable after the annual meeting of stockholders in each year, the Board of Directors shall elect a President and a Secretary, and it may, if it so determines, elect one or more Vice Chairmen. The Board may also elect one or more Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, a Treasurer and one or more Assistant Treasurers and such other officers as the Board may deem desirable or appropriate and may give any of them such further designations or alternate titles as it considers desirable. Any number of offices may be held by the same person. Section 4.2. Term of Office; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies. Except as otherwise provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors electing any officer each officer shall hold office until the first meeting of the Board after the annual meeting of stockholders next succeeding his or her election, and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board or to the Chairman or to the President or to the Secretary of the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, and no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective. The Board may remove any officer with or without cause at any time. Any such removal shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights of such officer, if any, with the Corporation, but the election of an officer shall not of itself create contractual rights. Any vacancy occurring in 10
any office of the Corporation by death, resignation, removal or otherwise may be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Board at any regular or special meeting. Section 4.3. President. The President shall be the Chief Executive Officer and shall have general charge and supervision of the business of the Corporation and shall perform all duties incident to the office of a President of a corporation and such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board. In the absence of the Chairman, the President shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders at which he or she shall be present. Section 4.4. Vice Chairman. Any Vice Chairman shall have and may exercise such powers as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board. In the absence of the Chairman and President, a Vice Chairman, if any, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders at which he or she shall be present. Section 4.5. Vice Presidents. The Vice President or Vice Presidents, at the request or in the absence of the President or during the President's inability to act, shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting shall have the powers of the President. Vice Presidents include all Executive Vice Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents. If there be more than one Vice President, the Board of Directors may determine which one or more of the Vice Presidents shall perform any of such duties; or if such determination is not made by the Board, the President may make such determination; otherwise any of the Vice Presidents may perform any of such duties. The Vice President or Vice Presidents shall have such other powers and shall perform such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her or them by the Board or the President or as may be provided by law. Section 4.6. Secretary. The Secretary shall have the duty to record the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders, the Board of Directors and any committees in a book to be kept for that purpose, shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these by-laws or as required by law, shall be custodian of the records of the Corporation, may affix the corporate seal to any document the execution of which, on behalf of the Corporation, is duly authorized, and when so affixed may attest the same, and, in general, shall perform all duties incident to the office of secretary of a corporation and such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board or the President or as may be provided by law. Section 4.7. Treasurer. The Treasurer shall have charge of and be responsible for all funds, securities, receipts and disbursements of the Corporation and shall deposit or cause to be deposited, in the name of the Corporation, all moneys or other valuable effects in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as shall, from time to time, be selected by or under authority of the Board of Directors. If required by the Board, the Treasurer shall give a bond for the faithful discharge of his or her duties, with such surety or sureties as the Board may determine. The Treasurer shall keep or cause to be kept full and accurate records of all receipts and disbursements in books of the Corporation, shall render to the President and to the Board, whenever requested, an account of the financial 11
condition of the Corporation, and, in general, shall perform all the duties incident to the office of treasurer of a corporation and such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board or the President or as may be provided by law. Section 4.8. Other Officers. The other officers, if any, of the Corporation, including any Assistant Vice Presidents, shall have such powers and duties in the management of the Corporation as shall be stated in a resolution of the Board of Directors which is not inconsistent with these by-laws and, to the extent not so stated, as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the control of the Board. The Board may require any officer, agent or employee to give security for the faithful performance of his or her duties. ARTICLE V Stock Section 5.1. Certificates. Every holder of stock in the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman or a Vice Chairman, if any, or the President, if any, or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by such holder in the Corporation. If such certificate is manually signed by one officer or manually countersigned by a transfer agent or by a registrar, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. Section 5.2. Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Stock Certificates; Issuance of New Certificates. The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such owner's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate. 12
ARTICLE VI Miscellaneous Section 6.1. Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the calendar year. Section 6.2. Seal. The Corporation may have a corporate seal which shall have the name of the Corporation inscribed thereon and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Board of Directors. The corporate seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced. Section 6.3. Waiver of Notice of Meetings of Stockholders, Directors and Committees. Whenever notice is required to be given by law or under any provision of the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the stockholders, directors or members of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws. Section 6.4. Indemnification of Directors, Officers and Employees. The Corporation shall indemnify to the full extent authorized by law any person made or threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether criminal, civil, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such person or such person's testator or intestate is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation or serves or served at the request of the Corporation any other enterprise as a director, officer, employee or agent. For purposes of this by-law, the term "Corporation" shall include any predecessor of the Corporation and any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed by the Corporation in a consolidation or merger: the term "other enterprise" shall include any corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or employee benefit plan; service "at the request of the Corporation" shall include service as a director, officer or employee of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer or employee with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to be indemnifiable expenses; and action by a person with respect to an employee benefit plan which such person reasonably believes to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of such plan shall be deemed to be action not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation. Section 6.5. Interested Directors; Quorum. No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes 13
the contract or transaction, or solely because his or her or their votes are counted for such purpose, if: (1) the material facts as to his or her relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board or the committee, and the Board or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (2) the material facts as to his or her relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or (3) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board, a committee thereof or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction. Section 6.6. Form of Records. Any records maintained by the Corporation in the regular course of its business, including its stock ledger, books of account and minute books, may be kept on, or be in the form of, punch cards, magnetic tape, photographs, microphotographs or any other information storage device, provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible form within a reasonable time. The Corporation shall so convert any records so kept upon the request of any person entitled to inspect the same. Section 6.7. Dividends. Subject to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, the Board of Directors may, out of funds legally available therefor at any regular or special meeting, declare dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation as and when they deem expedient. Before declaring any dividend, the Board may cause to be set apart out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends, such sum or sums as the directors from time to time in their discretion deem proper for working capital or as a reserve fund to meet contingencies or for equalizing dividends or for such other purposes as the directors shall deem conducive to the interests of the Corporation. Section 6.8. Checks. All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers, agent or agents of the Corporation, and in such manner as shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. Section 6.9. Amendment of By-Laws. These by-laws may be amended or repealed, and new by-laws adopted, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors, but the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote may adopt additional by-laws and may amend or repeal any by-law whether or not adopted by them. 14

EXHIBIT 99.1 AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GUIDELINES 1. INTRODUCTION The Board of Directors (the "Board") of American International Group, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "AIG"), acting on the recommendation of its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, has developed this set of corporate governance guidelines ("Guidelines") to promote the effective functioning of the Board and its committees, to promote the interests of shareholders and to set forth a common set of expectations as to how the Board, its various committees, individual directors, and management should perform their functions. These Guidelines are designed with AIG's current business operations, ownership, capital structure, and economic conditions in mind. II. ROLES OF BOARD AND MANAGEMENT The roles of the Board and management are related, but distinct. AIG's business strategy is implemented by its officers and other employees, under the direction of the chief executive officer ("CEO"). Management reports regularly to the Board on significant events, issues, and risks which may materially affect AIG's business or financial performance. The Board's function is one of oversight. The Board reviews and discusses reports by management with respect to AIG's performance, as well as significant issues facing AIG. In addition to its general oversight function, the Board, directly and through its committees, oversees AIG's business and management in accordance with these Guidelines. III. BOARD COMPOSITION The size of the Board should balance the following goals: -- The size of the Board should facilitate substantive discussions by the whole Board in which each director can participate meaningfully. -- The composition of the Board should encompass a broad range of skills, expertise, industry knowledge and diversity of opinion. -- A two-thirds majority of the Board shall consist of directors who are, under the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. ("NYSE") listing standards, "independent" in the business judgment of the Board ("Independent Directors"). IV. SELECTION OF CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The Board is free to select its Chairman and the CEO in the manner it considers to be in the best interests of AIG at any given point in time. At the current time, the policy of the Board, reflected in the By-Laws, is that the role of Chairman should be separate from that of the CEO and the Chairman should be selected from the Independent Directors. V. SELECTION OF DIRECTORS The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for recommending a slate of directors to the Board for election at the annual meeting of shareholders, or one or more nominees to fill vacancies occurring between annual meetings of shareholders. A.Nominations. The Board shall, based on the recommendations of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, select nominees for the position of director considering the following criteria: -- High personal and professional ethics, values and integrity; -- Ability to work together as part of an effective, collegial group; -- Commitment to representing the long-term interests of AIG; -- Skill, diversity, background, and experience with businesses and other organizations that the Board deems relevant; -- The interplay of the individual's experience with the experience of other Board members, and the extent to which the individual would be a desirable addition to the Board and any committees of the Board; and -- Ability and willingness to commit adequate time to AIG over an extended period of time. B.Shareholder Nominations. Shareholders may propose nominees for consideration by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee by submitting names and supporting information to: Chairperson, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, c/o Secretary, American International Group, Inc., 70 Pine Street, New York, NY 10270. 1
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall give appropriate consideration to candidates for Board membership proposed by shareholders and shall evaluate such candidates in the same manner as other candidates identified to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. C. Committee Evaluation. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall discuss and evaluate possible candidates in detail prior to recommending them to the Board. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall also be responsible for initially assessing whether a candidate would be an Independent Director. The Board, taking into consideration the assessment of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, shall determine whether a nominee or appointee would be an Independent Director. D. Orientation. Management, working with the Board, will provide an orientation process for new directors, including background material on AIG, its business plan and its risk profile, and meetings with senior management. Periodically, management should prepare additional orientation sessions for directors on matters relevant to AIG, its business plan and risk profile. VI. ELECTION, TERM AND RETIREMENT OF THE DIRECTORS Directors hold office until the AIG Annual Meeting of Shareholders next succeeding his or her election and until a successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. The Board does not believe it should establish term limits or a mandatory retirement age. VII. BOARD MEETINGS The Board currently plans at least four regular meetings each year, with further meetings to occur (or action to be taken by unanimous written consent), at the discretion of the Board. The agenda for each Board meeting will be prepared by the Chairman and CEO. Any director may suggest the inclusion of additional subjects on the agenda. The agenda for each committee meeting shall be established by the respective committee chairperson. Management will endeavor to provide all directors an agenda and appropriate materials in advance of meetings, although the Board recognizes that this will not always be consistent with the timing of transactions, the operations of the business and, in certain cases, it may not be desirable to circulate materials in advance of the meeting. Materials presented to the Board or its committees should be as concise as practicable but consistent with the need to provide the information needed for the directors to make an informed judgment and engage in informed discussion. VIII. EXECUTIVE SESSIONS To ensure free and open discussion and communication among the non-management directors of the Board, the non-management directors will meet at least four times a year in executive sessions, with no members of management present. The non-management directors will designate the director who will preside at the executive sessions. Non-management directors who are not Independent Directors may participate in these executive sessions, but Independent Directors shall meet separately in executive session at least once per year. IX. THE COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD A. Committees. The Board will have at least the following five committees: Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Executive Committee, Finance Committee, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. The Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee must each have a written charter satisfying the rules of the NYSE. The Audit Committee must also satisfy the requirements of Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Rule 10A-3. Each committee chair will give a report periodically on his or her committee's activities to the Board. B. Composition of the Committees. The Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will each be composed of at least three directors all of whom are, in the business judgment of the Board, Independent Directors. The required qualifications for the members of each committee are set out in the respective committee's charter. A director may serve on more than one committee for which he or she qualifies. X. BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES A. Management Succession. The Board shall review and consider the management succession plan, developed by the CEO, to ensure that future selections are appropriately considered. The principal components of this plan, on which the CEO will report at least annually to the Board, are: -- A proposed plan for CEO succession, both in an emergency situation and in the ordinary course of business; and -- The CEO's plan for management succession for the other policy-making officers of AIG. B. Evaluating and Approving Salary for the CEO. The Board, acting through the Compensation Committee, evaluates the performance of the CEO against AIG's goals and objectives and approves the compensation level of the CEO. 2
C. Compensation Programs. The Compensation Committee makes recommendations to the Board with respect to (1) AIG's general compensation philosophy, (2) the compensation programs applicable to senior executives of AIG and (3) other employee compensation. D. Board Compensation. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall periodically review and make recommendations to the Board regarding the form and amount of Board compensation. The Board shall set the form and amount of director compensation, taking into account the recommendations of the Committee. Only non-management directors shall receive compensation for services as a director. To create a direct linkage with corporate performance, the Board believes that a meaningful portion of a director's compensation should be provided and held in the common stock of AIG and other types of equity-based compensation. E. Reviewing and Approving Significant Transactions. Board approval of a particular transaction may be appropriate because of several factors, including: -- legal or regulatory requirements; -- the materiality of the transaction to AIG's finance performance, risk profile or business; -- the terms of the transaction; or -- other factors, such as entry into a new business or a significant variation from AIG's strategic plan. To the extent that the Board determines it to be appropriate, the Board shall develop standards to be utilized by management in determining the types of transactions that should be submitted to the Board for review and approval or notification. XI. EXPECTATIONS OF DIRECTORS The business and affairs of AIG shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board in accordance with Delaware law. In performing their duties, the primary responsibility of the directors is to exercise their business judgment in the best interests of AIG. The Board has developed a number of specific expectations of directors to promote the discharge of this responsibility and the efficient conduct of the Board's business. A. Commitment and Attendance. All directors should make every effort to attend every meeting of the Board and every meeting of committees of which they are members. Directors are expected to attend the annual meeting of shareholders. B. Participation in Meetings. Each director should be sufficiently familiar with the business of AIG, including its financial statements and capital structure, and the risks and the competition it faces, to facilitate active and effective participation in the deliberations of the Board and of each committee on which he or she serves. Upon request, management will make appropriate personnel available to answer any questions a director may have about any aspect of AIG's business. C. Loyalty and Ethics. In their roles as directors, all directors owe a duty of loyalty to AIG. This duty of loyalty mandates that the best interests of AIG take precedence over any interests possessed by a director. AIG has adopted a Director, Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Directors should be familiar with the Code's provisions and should consult with AIG's counsel in the event of any issues that arise with respect to the matters set forth in the Code. D. Other Directorships. AIG values the experience directors bring from other boards on which they serve, but recognizes that those boards also present significant demands on a director's time and availability and may present conflicts and legal issues. Directors should advise the Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the CEO before accepting membership on other boards of directors or other significant commitments involving affiliation with other businesses or governmental units. E. Contact with Management. All directors are invited to contact the CEO at any time to discuss any aspect of AIG's business. Directors also have complete access to other members of management. The Board expects that there will be frequent opportunities for directors to meet with the CEO and other members of the management in Board and committee meetings, or in other formal and informal settings. Further, the Board encourages management to, from time to time, bring managers into Board meetings who (a) can provide additional insight into the items being discussed because of personal involvement and substantial knowledge in those areas and/or (b) are managers with future potential that the senior management believes should be given exposure to the Board. F. Board Interaction with Institutional Investors and the Press. It is important that AIG speak to employees and outside constituencies with a single voice and that management serve as the primary spokesperson. If a situation does arise in which it seems necessary for a non-management director to speak on behalf of AIG, the director should consult with the CEO. G. Confidentiality. The proceedings and deliberations of the Board and its committees are confidential. Each director shall maintain the confidentiality of all information received in connection with his or her service as a director. 3
XII. COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Security holders may communicate directly with one or more directors by writing to them c/o Secretary, American International Group, Inc., 70 Pine Street, New York, NY 10270. XIII. EVALUATING BOARD PERFORMANCE The Board, acting through the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, shall conduct a self-evaluation at least annually to determine whether it is functioning effectively. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall periodically consider the mix of skills and experience that directors bring to the Board to assess whether the Board has the necessary tools to perform its oversight function effectively. The Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee, and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall each conduct an annual self-evaluation, as provided for in its respective charter. XIV. RELIANCE ON MANAGEMENT AND OUTSIDE ADVICE In performing its functions, the Board is entitled to rely on the advice, reports and opinions of management, counsel, accountants, auditors and other expert advisors. The Board shall have the authority to retain and approve the fees and retention terms of its outside advisors. Approved: June 16, 2005 4


