FILE:AIG/AIG-8K-20070522152226.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On May 16, 2007, at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of American International Group, Inc. (AIG), AIG's shareholders approved the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (SIP). Awards under the SIP may be made by the Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors to AIG's named executive officers. The SIP is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     On May 16, 2007, the Board of Directors of AIG adopted amended and restated By-laws of AIG to require the approval or ratification of the compensation of AIG's Chief Executive Officer by the Board of Directors, and to reflect the change in the name of the Compensation Committee to the Compensation and Management Resources Committee. A copy of AIG's Amended and Restated By-laws is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d)  Exhibits.
     Exhibit 3.1 American International Group, Inc. By-laws, as amended and restated on May 16, 2007.
     Exhibit 10.1 American International Group, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 3.1
     Section 1.1. An annual meeting of stockholders shall be held for the election of directors at such date, time and place either within or without the State of Delaware as may be designated by the Board of Directors from time to time. Any other proper business may be transacted at the annual meeting.
Annual Meetings.
     Section 1.2. Special meetings of stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Chairman, if any, the Chief Executive Officer, if any, the Secretary or the Board of Directors, to be held at such date, time and place either within or without the State of Delaware as may be stated in the notice of the meeting. A special meeting of stockholders shall be called by the Secretary upon the written request, stating the purpose of the meeting, of stockholders who together own of record twenty-five (25) percent of the outstanding shares of each class of stock entitled to vote at such meeting.
Special Meetings.
     Section 1.3. Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice of the meeting shall be given which shall state the place, date and time of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Unless otherwise provided by law, the written notice of any meeting shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of such meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. No business other than that stated in the notice shall be transacted at any special meeting without the unanimous consent of all the stockholders entitled to vote thereat.
Notice of Meetings.
     Section 1.4. Any meeting of stockholders, annual or special, may adjourn from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken; provided, that if the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting. At the adjourned meeting the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
Adjournments.
 
     Section 1.5. At each meeting of stockholders, except where otherwise provided by law or the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of each class of stock entitled to vote at the meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum. In the absence of a quorum, the stockholders so present may, by majority vote, adjourn the meeting from time to time in the manner provided by Section 1.4 of these by-laws until a quorum shall attend. Shares of its own capital stock belonging on the record date for the meeting to the Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not limit the right of the Corporation to vote stock, including but not limited to its own stock, held by it in a fiduciary capacity.
Quorum.
     Section 1.6. Meetings of stockholders shall be presided over by the Chairman, or in the absence of the Chairman by the Chief Executive Officer, or in the absence of the Chief Executive Officer by the Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, or in the absence of the foregoing persons by a chairman designated by the Board of Directors, or in the absence of such designation by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, or in the absence of the Secretary an Assistant Secretary shall so act, or in their absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization.
     The order of business at each such meeting shall be as determined by the chairman of the meeting. The chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts and things as are necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, the establishment of procedures for the maintenance of order and safety, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, restrictions on entry to such meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and the opening and closing of the voting polls.
     Section 1.7. Prior to any meeting of stockholders, the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at such meeting and make a written report thereof and may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at the meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, determine the shares represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, count all votes and ballots, determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors and certify their determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting and their count of all votes and ballots. The inspectors may appoint or retain other persons to assist them in the performance of their duties. The date and time of the opening and closing of the
Inspectors.
 
polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting. No ballot, proxy or vote, nor any revocation thereof or change thereto, shall be accepted by the inspectors after the closing of the polls. In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots, the inspectors shall be limited to an examination of the proxies, any envelopes submitted therewith, any information provided by a stockholder who submits a proxy by telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission from which it can be determined that the proxy was authorized by the stockholder, ballots and the regular books and records of the Corporation, and they may also consider other reliable information for the limited purpose of reconciling proxies and ballots submitted by or on behalf of banks, brokers, their nominees or similar persons which represent more votes than the holder of a proxy is authorized by the record owner to cast or more votes than the stockholder holds of record. If the inspectors consider other reliable information for such purpose, they shall, at the time they make their certification, specify the precise information considered by them, including the person or persons from whom they obtained the information, when the information was obtained, the means by which the information was obtained and the basis for the inspectors' belief that such information is accurate and reliable.
     Section 1.8. For purposes of this Article I, two or more classes or series of stock shall be considered a single class if and to the extent that the holders thereof are entitled to vote together as a single class at the meeting. Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation, each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by such stockholder which has voting power upon the matter in question. Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders or to express consent or dissent to corporate action in writing without a meeting may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A duly executed proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by filing an instrument in writing revoking the proxy or another duly executed proxy bearing a later date with the Secretary of the Corporation. Voting at meetings of stockholders need not be by written ballot and need not be conducted by inspectors unless the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of all classes of stock entitled to vote thereon present in person or by proxy at such meeting shall so determine. At all meetings of stockholders for the election of directors a plurality of the votes cast shall be sufficient to elect. With respect to other matters, unless otherwise provided by law or by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of all classes of stock present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders, provided that (except as otherwise required by law or by the certificate of incorporation) the Board of Directors may require in the notice of meeting a larger vote upon any such matter. Only votes cast "for" or "against" a matter shall be considered affirmative votes; abstentions, broker non-votes and withheld votes shall not be treated as affirmative votes and shall not be taken into account in determining whether a matter is approved. Where a separate vote by class is required, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of each class present in person or represented by proxy at the
Classes or Series of Stock; Voting Proxies.
 
meeting shall be the act of such class, except as otherwise provided by law or by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws.
     Section 1.9. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix, a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record.
     In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than ten (10) days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
     In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty (60) days prior to such action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
 
     Section 1.10. The Secretary shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote.
     Section 1.11. Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, any action required by law to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, or any action which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of such stockholders, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent or consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted and shall be delivered to the Corporation by delivery to (a) its registered office in the State of Delaware by hand or by certified mail or registered mail, return receipt requested, (b) its principal place of business, or (c) an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within sixty (60) days of the earliest dated consent delivered in the manner required by this Section 1.11 to the Corporation, written consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take action are delivered to the Corporation by delivery to (a) its registered office in the State of Delaware by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, (b) its principal place of business, or (c) an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing and who, if the action had been taken at a meeting, would have been entitled to notice of the meeting if the record date for such meeting had been the date that written consents signed by a sufficient number of stockholders to take the action were delivered to the Corporation as provided in this Section 1.11.
Consent of Stockholders in Lieu of Meeting.
     Section 1.12. (a) The matters to be considered and brought before any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation shall be limited to only such matters, including the nomination and election of directors, as shall be brought properly before such meeting in compliance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.12.
Advance Notice of Stockholder Nominees for Director and Other Stockholder Proposals.
     For any matter to be properly brought before any annual meeting of stockholders, the matter must be (i) specified in the notice of annual meeting given by or at the direction of the
 
Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) brought before the annual meeting in the manner specified in this Section 1.12(b)(x) by a stockholder that holds of record stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at the annual meeting on such matter (including any election of a director) or (y) by a person (a "Nominee Holder") that holds such stock through a nominee or "street name" holder of record of such stock and can demonstrate to the Corporation such indirect ownership of, and such Nominee Holder's entitlement to vote, such stock on such matter. In addition to any other requirements under applicable law, the certificate of incorporation and these by-laws, persons nominated by stockholders for election as directors of the Corporation and any other proposals by stockholders shall be properly brought before an annual meeting of stockholders only if notice of any such matter to be presented by a stockholder at such meeting (a "Stockholder Notice") shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the first anniversary date of the annual meeting for the preceding year; provided, however, that if and only if the annual meeting is not scheduled to be held within a period that commences thirty (30) days before and ends thirty (30) days after such anniversary date (an annual meeting date outside such period being referred to herein as an "Other Meeting Date"), such Stockholder Notice shall be given in the manner provided herein by the later of (i) the close of business on the date ninety (90) days prior to such Other Meeting Date or (ii) the close of business on the tenth (10) day following the date on which such Other Meeting Date is first publicly announced or disclosed. Any stockholder desiring to nominate any person or persons (as the case may be) for election as a director or directors of the Corporation at an annual meeting of stockholders shall deliver, as part of such Stockholder Notice, a statement in writing setting forth the name of the person or persons to be nominated, the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Corporation owned of record and beneficially by each such person, as reported to such stockholder by such person, the information regarding each such person required by paragraphs (a), (e) and (f) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, each such person's signed consent to serve as a director of the Corporation if elected, such stockholder's name and address, the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Corporation owned of record and beneficially by such stockholder and, in the case of a Nominee Holder, evidence establishing such Nominee Holder's indirect ownership of stock and entitlement to vote such stock for the election of directors at the annual meeting. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine whether the nominee would be considered "independent" under the various rules and standards applicable to the Corporation. Any stockholder who gives a Stockholder Notice of any matter (other than a nomination for director) proposed to be brought before an annual meeting of stockholders shall deliver, as part of such Stockholder Notice, the text of the proposal to be presented and a brief written statement of the reasons why such stockholder favors the proposal and setting forth such stockholder's name and address, the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Corporation owned of record and beneficially by such stockholder, any material interest of such stockholder in the matter proposed (other than as a stockholder), if applicable, and, in the case of a Nominee Holder, evidence establishing such Nominee Holder's indirect ownership of stock and entitlement to vote such stock on the matter proposed at the annual meeting. As used in these by-laws, shares "beneficially owned" shall mean all shares which such person is deemed to beneficially own
 
pursuant to Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). If a stockholder is entitled to vote only for a specific class or category of directors at a meeting (annual or special), such stockholder's right to nominate one or more individuals for election as a director at the meeting shall be limited to such class or category of directors. Notwithstanding any provision of this Section 1.12 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at the next annual meeting of stockholders is increased by virtue of an increase in the size of the Board of Directors and either all of the nominees for director at the next annual meeting of stockholders or the size of the increased Board of Directors is not publicly announced or disclosed by the Corporation at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a Stockholder Notice shall also be considered timely hereunder, but only with respect to nominees to stand for election at the next annual meeting as the result of any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10) day following the first day on which all such nominees or the size of the increased Board of Directors shall have been publicly announced or disclosed.
     (b) Except as provided in the immediately following sentence, no matter shall be properly brought before a special meeting of stockholders unless such matter shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of such meeting. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of such director(s) at such meeting may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as are specified in the Corporation's notice of such meeting, but only if the Stockholder Notice required by Section l.ll(b) hereof shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10) day following the first day on which the date of the special meeting and either the names of all nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting or the number of directors to be elected shall have been publicly announced or disclosed.
     (c) For purposes of this Section 1.12, a matter shall be deemed to have been "publicly announced or disclosed" if such matter is disclosed in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, the Associated Press or a comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     (d) In no event shall the adjournment of an annual meeting or a special meeting, or any announcement thereof, commence a new period for the giving of notice as provided in this Section 1.12. This Section 1.12 shall not apply to (i) any stockholder proposal made pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) any nomination of a director in an election in which only the holders of one or more series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation issued pursuant to Article FOUR of the certificate of incorporation are entitled to vote (unless otherwise provided in the terms of such stock).
     (e) The chairman of any meeting of stockholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall have the power
 
and duty to determine whether notice of nominees and other matters proposed to be brought before a meeting has been duly given in the manner provided in this Section 1.12 and, if not so given, shall direct and declare at the meeting that such nominees and other matters shall not be considered.
     Section 1.13. Except as otherwise required by law, any matter (other than a nomination for director) that has been properly brought before an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation by a stockholder (including a Nominee Holder) in compliance with the procedures set forth in Section 1.12 and any stockholder proposal pursuant to Rule 14a-8 shall require for approval thereof the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than a majority of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation and all other outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter, with such outstanding shares of Common Stock and other stock considered for this purpose as a single class. Any vote of stockholders required by this Section 1.13 shall be in addition to any other vote of stockholders of the Corporation that may be required by law, the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, by any agreement with a national securities exchange or otherwise.
Approval of Stockholder Proposals.
     Section 1.14. If a stockholder (including a Nominee Holder) has brought a matter before an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and the matter is included in the Corporation's proxy materials pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act and is approved by the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation and all other outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter (with such outstanding shares of Common Stock and other stock considered for this purpose as a single class), the Corporation shall reimburse the stockholder for all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in bringing the matter before the meeting of stockholders, including reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in opposing any efforts by the Corporation to (i) exclude the matter from the Corporation's proxy materials and (ii) solicit votes in opposition; provided, however, that such reimbursement shall not exceed the amount spent by the Corporation in efforts to exclude the matter from the Corporation's proxy materials and solicit votes in opposition.
Reimbursement.
     Section 2.1. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise provided by law or in the certificate of incorporation. The Board shall consist of not less than seven nor more than twenty-one (21) members, the number thereof to be determined from time to time by the Board; provided, however, that in determining the number of directors no account shall be taken of any non-voting director, including any advisory or honorary director, that may be elected from time to time by a majority of the Board of Directors. The number of directors may be increased by amendment of these by-laws by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the
Powers; Number; Qualifications.
 
affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of all classes of stock entitled to vote thereon, and by like vote the additional directors may be elected to hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders and until their respective successors are elected and qualified or until their respective earlier resignations or removals. Directors need not be stockholders.
     Section 2.2. Each director shall hold office until the annual meeting of stockholders next succeeding his or her election and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board of Directors or to the Chairman or the Secretary of the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, and no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective. Any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors; and any vacancy so created may be filled by the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors. Whenever the holders of any class or series of stock are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, the provisions of the preceding sentence shall apply, in respect to the removal without cause of a director or directors so elected, to the vote of the holders of the outstanding shares of that class or series and not to the vote of the outstanding shares as a whole. Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, vacancies (other than any vacancy created by removal of a director by shareholder vote) and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors elected by all of the stockholders having the right to vote as a single class or from any other cause may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, vacancies and newly created directorships of such class or classes or series may, unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation, be filled by a majority of the directors elected by such class or classes or series thereof then in office, or by the sole remaining director so elected.
Election; Term of Office; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies.
     Section 2.3. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at such places within or without the State of Delaware and at such times as the Board may from time to time determine, and if so determined notice thereof need not be given.
Regular Meetings.
     Section 2.4. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time or place within or without the State of Delaware whenever called by the Chairman or by the Chief Executive Officer or on the written request of any two directors. Reasonable notice thereof, which may be by telephone or email, shall be given by the person calling the meeting.
Special Meetings.
     Section 2.5. Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board, may participate in a meeting of
Participation in Meetings by Conference Telephone Permitted.
 
the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 2.5 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
     Section 2.6. At all meetings of the Board of Directors a majority of the entire Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board unless the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws shall require a vote of a greater number. In case at any meeting of the Board a quorum shall not be present, a majority of the members of the Board present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall attend, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which adjournment is taken.
Quorum; Vote Required for Action.
     Section 2.7. The Board of Directors shall annually select one of its members who is independent under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards to be Chairman and shall fill any vacancy in the position of Chairman at such time and in such manner as the Board of Directors shall determine.
Chairman.
     Section 2.8. Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chairman or, in the absence of the Chairman by the Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee or in their absence by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary, or in the absence of the Secretary an Assistant Secretary, shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in the absence of the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization.
     Section 2.9. Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
Action by Directors Without a Meeting.
     Section 2.10. The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors.
Compensation of Directors.
     Section 2.11. The determination of the Compensation and Management Resources Committee (or such other committee of the Board of Directors assigned to make such determination) with respect to the compensation of the Chief Executive Officer shall be subject to the approval or ratification of the Board. Any director who is also an employee of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries shall recuse himself or herself from the deliberations and vote of the Board to approve or ratify the compensation of the Chief Executive Officer.
Approval or Ratification of Chief Executive Officer Compensation.
 
     Section 3.1. The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of two or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent permitted by applicable law and provided in the resolution of the Board or in these by-laws, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. The standing committees of the Board of Directors shall be the Audit Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Compensation and Management Resources Committee, such additional committees as may be required by the New York Stock Exchange listing standards or other applicable law and such additional committees as the Board of Directors may designate pursuant to this Section 3.1, in each case with such name or names as may be stated in these by-laws or as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors. The committees shall keep regular minutes of their proceedings and report the same to the Board of Directors when required.
Committees.
     The Executive Committee, if one shall be designated, to the extent permitted by applicable law shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Except as otherwise provided from time to time in resolutions passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, the powers and authority of the Executive Committee shall include the power and authority to declare a dividend on stock, to authorize the issuance of stock and to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Except as otherwise provided from time to time in resolutions passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, the power and authority of the Executive Committee shall not include the power or authority to nominate persons to serve as directors or to fill vacancies or newly created directorships, which power and authority shall be vested in the Board of Directors.
     Section 3.2. Unless the Board of Directors otherwise provides, each committee designated by the Board may adopt, amend and repeal rules for the conduct of its business. In the absence of a provision by the Board or a provision in the rules of such committee to the contrary, a majority of the members of such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, the vote of a majority of the members present at a meeting at the time of such vote if a quorum is then present shall be the act of such committee,
Committee Rules.
 
and in other respects each committee shall conduct its business in the same manner as the Board conducts its business pursuant to Article II of these by-laws.
     Section 4.1. As soon as practicable after the annual meeting of stockholders in each year, the Board of Directors shall elect a Chief Executive Officer and a Secretary, and it may, if it so determines, elect one or more Vice Chairmen. The Board may also elect a President, one or more Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, a Treasurer and one or more Assistant Treasurers and such other officers as the Board may deem desirable or appropriate and may give any of them such further designations or alternate titles as it considers desirable. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
Officers; Election.
     Section 4.2. Except as otherwise provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors electing any officer each officer shall hold office until the first meeting of the Board after the annual meeting of stockholders next succeeding his or her election, and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board or to the Chairman or to the Chief Executive Officer or to the Secretary of the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, and no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective. The Board may remove any officer with or without cause at any time. Any such removal shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights of such officer, if any, with the Corporation, but the election of an officer shall not of itself create contractual rights. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation by death, resignation, removal or otherwise may be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Board at any regular or special meeting.
Term of Office; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies.
     Section 4.3. The Chief Executive Officer shall have general charge and supervision of the business of the Corporation and shall perform all duties incident to the office of a Chief Executive Officer of a corporation and such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board.
Chief Executive Officer.
     Section 4.4. Any Vice Chairman shall have and may exercise such powers as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer.
Vice Chairman.
     Section 4.5. Vice Presidents include all Executive Vice Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents. The Vice President or Vice Presidents shall have such powers and shall perform such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her or them by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or as may be provided by law.
Vice Presidents.
     Section 4.6. The Secretary shall have the duty to record or cause to be recorded the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders, the Board of Directors and any
Secretary.
 
committees in a book to be kept for that purpose, shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these by-laws or as required by law, shall be custodian of the records of the Corporation, may affix the corporate seal to any document the execution of which, on behalf of the Corporation, is duly authorized, and when so affixed may attest the same, and, in general, shall perform all duties incident to the office of secretary of a corporation and such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or as may be provided by law.
     Section 4.7. The Treasurer shall have charge of and be responsible for all funds, securities, receipts and disbursements of the Corporation and shall deposit or cause to be deposited, in the name of the Corporation, all moneys or other valuable effects in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as shall, from time to time, be selected by or under authority of the Board of Directors. If required by the Board, the Treasurer shall give a bond for the faithful discharge of his or her duties, with such surety or sureties as the Board may determine. The Treasurer shall keep or cause to be kept full and accurate records of all receipts and disbursements in books of the Corporation, shall render to the Chief Executive Officer and to the Board, whenever requested, an account of the financial condition of the Corporation, and, in general, shall perform all the duties incident to the office of treasurer of a corporation and such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or as may be provided by law.
Treasurer.
     Section 4.8. The other officers, if any, of the Corporation, including any Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries, shall have such powers and duties in the management of the Corporation as shall be stated in a resolution of the Board of Directors which is not inconsistent with these by-laws and, to the extent not so stated, as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the control of the Board. The Board may require any officer, agent or employee to give security for the faithful performance of his or her duties.
Other Officers.
     Section 5.1. Except as otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, every holder of stock in the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman or a Vice Chairman, if any, or the Chief Executive Officer, if any, or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by such holder in the Corporation. If such certificate is manually signed by one officer or manually countersigned by a transfer agent or by a registrar, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Certificates.
 
     Section 5.2. The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such owner's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Stock Certificates; Issuance of New Certificates.
     Section 6.1. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the calendar year.
Fiscal Year.
     Section 6.2. The Corporation may have a corporate seal which shall have the name of the Corporation inscribed thereon and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Board of Directors. The corporate seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced.
Seal.
     Section 6.3. Whenever notice is required to be given by law or under any provision of the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the stockholders, directors or members of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws.
Waiver of Notice of Meetings of Stockholders, Directors and Committees.
     Section 6.4.
Indemnification of Directors, Officers and Employees.
     1. 
Indemnification  General.
          (a) Except as provided in Section 6.4(3), the Corporation shall indemnify the Indemnitees to the full extent permitted by Delaware law.
          (b) For the purposes of this Section 6.4, the term "Indemnitee" shall mean any person made or threatened to be made a party to any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact that such person or such person's testator or intestate is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation or serves or served at the request of the Corporation any other enterprise as a director, officer or employee.
 
          (c) For purposes of this Section 6.4, the term "Corporation" shall include any predecessor of the Corporation and any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed by the Corporation in a consolidation or merger; the term "other enterprise" shall include any corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or employee benefit plan; service "at the request of the Corporation" shall include service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to be an Expense; and action by a person with respect to an employee benefit plan which such person reasonably believes to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of such plan shall be deemed to be action not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation.
     2. 
Expenses.
     (a) Expenses reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in defending any such action, suit or proceeding, as described in Section 6.4(1 )(b), shall be paid or reimbursed by the Corporation promptly upon receipt by it of an undertaking of Indemnitee to repay such expenses if it shall ultimately be determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation.
     (b) For the purposes of this Section 6.4, the term "Expenses" shall include all reasonable out of pocket fees, costs and expenses, including without limitation, attorneys' fees, retainers, court costs, transcript costs, fees of experts, witness fees, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees, and all other disbursements or expenses of the types customarily incurred in connection with defending, preparing to defend, or investigating an action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative but shall exclude the costs of acquiring and maintaining an appeal or supersedeas bond or similar instrument. For the avoidance of doubt, "Expenses" shall not include (i) any amounts incurred in an action, suit or proceeding in which Indemnitee is a plaintiff and (ii) any amounts incurred in connection with any non-compulsory counterclaim brought by the Indemnitee.
     3.  The Corporation shall not indemnify Indemnitee or advance Indemnitee's Expenses if the action, suit or proceeding alleges (1) claims under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or (2) violations of Federal or state insider trading laws, unless, in the case of this clause (2), Indemnitee has been successful on the merits or settled the case with the written consent of the Corporation, in which case the Corporation shall indemnify and reimburse Indemnitee.
Limitations.
     4.  No claim for indemnification shall be paid by the Corporation unless the Corporation has determined that Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the Corporation and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful. Unless ordered by a court, such determinations
Standard of Conduct.
 
shall be made by (1) a majority vote of the directors who are not parties to the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification are sought, even though less than a quorum, or (2) by a committee of such directors designated by a majority vote of directors, even though less than a quorum, or (3) if there are no such directors, or if such directors direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (4) by stockholders.
     5.  No claim for indemnification or the reimbursement of Expenses shall be made by Indemnitee or paid by the Corporation unless the Indemnitee gives notice of such claim for indemnification within one year after the Indemnitee received notice of the claim, action, suit or proceeding.
Period of Indemnity.
     6.  Except as required by law or as otherwise becomes public through no action by the Indemnitee or as necessary to assert Indemnitee's rights under this Section 6.4, Indemnitee will keep confidential any information that arises in connection with this Section 6.4, including but not limited to, claims for indemnification or reimbursement of Expenses, amounts paid or payable under this Section 6.4 and any communications between the parties.
Confidentiality.
     7.  In the event of payment under this Section 6.4, the Corporation shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee (under any insurance policy or otherwise), who shall execute all papers required and shall do everything necessary to secure such rights, including the execution of such documents necessary to enable the Corporation to effectively bring suit to enforce such rights.
Subrogation.
     8.  Indemnitee shall promptly notify the Corporation in writing upon being served with any summons, citation, subpoena, complaint, indictment, information or other document relating to any matter which may be subject to indemnification or reimbursement of Expenses covered by this Section 6.4. As a condition to indemnification or reimbursement of expenses, any demand for payment by Indemnitee hereunder shall be in writing and shall provide an accounting of the amounts to be paid by Corporation (which shall include detailed invoices and other relevant documentation).
Notice by Indemnitee.
     9.  Any action, suit or proceeding regarding indemnification or advancement or reimbursement of Expenses arising out of the by-laws or otherwise shall only be brought and heard in Delaware Court of Chancery.
Venue.
     10.  No amendment of this Section 6.4 shall impair the rights of any Indemnitee arising at any time with respect to events occurring prior to such amendment.
Amendment.
     Section 6.5. No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or her or their votes are counted for such purpose, if: (1) the
Interested Directors; Quorum.
 
material facts as to his or her relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board or the committee, and the Board or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (2) the material facts as to his or her relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or (3) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board, a committee thereof or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
     Section 6.6. Any records maintained by the Corporation in the regular course of its business, including its stock ledger, books of account and minute books, may be kept on, or be in the form of, punch cards, magnetic tape, photographs, microphotographs or any other information storage device, provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible form within a reasonable time. The Corporation shall so convert any records so kept upon the request of any person entitled to inspect the same.
Form of Records.
     Section 6.7. Subject to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, the Board of Directors may, out of funds legally available therefor at any regular or special meeting, declare dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation as and when they deem expedient. Before declaring any dividend, the Board may cause to be set apart out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends, such sum or sums as the directors from time to time in their discretion deem proper for working capital or as a reserve fund to meet contingencies or for equalizing dividends or for such other purposes as the directors shall deem conducive to the interests of the Corporation..
Dividends.
     Section 6.8. These by-laws may be amended or repealed, and new by-laws adopted, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors, but the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote may adopt additional by-laws and may amend or repeal any by-law whether or not adopted by them.
Amendment of By-Laws.

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
1.1 Purpose
     The purpose of the American International Group, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan is to attract, retain and motivate officers, directors and key employees of American International Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, to compensate them for their contributions to the long-term growth and profits of the Company and to encourage them to acquire a proprietary interest in the success of the Company.
     This 2007 Stock Incentive Plan replaces the American International Group, Inc. Amended and Restated 1999 Stock Option Plan (as amended to the Effective Date, the ""), the American International Group, Inc. Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended to the Effective Date, the "") and the American International Group, Inc. Director Stock Plan (as amended to the Effective Date, the "") for Awards granted on or after the Effective Date. Awards may not be granted under any of the Stock Option Plan, the SIP or the Director Plan beginning on the Effective Date, but this 2007 Stock Incentive Plan will not affect the terms or conditions of any stock option, restricted stock unit or other award made under the Stock Option Plan, the SIP or the Director Plan before the Effective Date.
Stock Option Plan
SIP
Director Plan
1.2 Definitions of Certain Terms
     For purposes of this 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
     "" means American International Group, Inc. or a successor entity contemplated by Section 3.6.
AIG
     "" means the Assurance Agreement, by AIG in favor of eligible employees dated as of June 27, 2005, relating to certain obligations of Starr International Company, Inc. (as such agreement may be amended, supplemented, extended, modified or replaced from time to time).
Assurance Agreement
     "" means an award made pursuant to the Plan.
Award
     "" means the written document by which each Award is evidenced, and which may, but need not be (as determined by the Committee) executed or acknowledged by a Grantee as a condition to receiving an Award or the benefits under an Award, and which sets forth the terms and provisions applicable to Awards granted under the Plan to such Grantee.
Award Agreement
     "" means the Board of Directors of AIG.
Board
     "" means a stock certificate (or other appropriate document or evidence of ownership) representing shares of Common Stock.
Certificate
 
     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, or any successor thereto, and the applicable rulings and regulations thereunder.
Code
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.3.1.
Committee
     "" means the common stock of AIG, par value $2.50 per share, and any other securities or property issued in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof pursuant to Section 1.6.4.
Common Stock
     "" means AIG and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Company
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3.2.
Consent
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.3.3.
Covered Person
     "" means a member of the Board or a member of the board of directors of a consolidated subsidiary of AIG.
Director
     "" means May 16, 2007.
Effective Date
     "" means a regular, active employee of the Company.
Employee
     "" means a Grantee's performance of services for the Company, as an Employee, as determined by the Committee. The terms "employ" and "employed" will have their correlative meanings.
Employment
     "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor thereto, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.
Exchange Act
     "" means, with respect to a share of Common Stock on any day, the fair market value as determined in accordance with a valuation methodology approved by the Committee, unless determined as otherwise specified herein.
Fair Market Value
     "" means an Employee or Director who receives an Award.
Grantee
     "" means an option to purchase shares of Common Stock that is intended to be designated as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Sections 421 and 422 of the Code, as now constituted or subsequently amended, or pursuant to a successor of the Code, and which is designated as an Incentive Stock Option in the applicable Award Agreement.
Incentive Stock Option
     "" means a Director who is a "non-employee director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3(b)(3) under the Exchange Act or any successor thereto.
Non-Employee Director
     "" means an Employee who is an "officer" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(f) under the Exchange Act.
Officer
     "" means this American International Group, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
Plan
     "" will have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3.1.
Plan Action
 
     "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time, or any successor thereto, and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder.
Securities Act
1.3 Administration
     1.3.1 The Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board (as constituted from time to time, and including any successor committee, the "") will administer the Plan. The members of the Committee will be drawn solely from such members of the Board who are not and have not been Officers of the Company. The Committee is authorized, subject to the provisions of the Plan, to establish such rules and regulations as it deems necessary for the proper administration of the Plan and to make such determinations and interpretations and to take such action in connection with the Plan and any Award granted thereunder as it deems necessary or advisable. All determinations and interpretations made by the Committee will be final, binding and conclusive on all Grantees and on their legal representatives and beneficiaries. The Committee will have the authority, in its absolute discretion, to determine the persons who will receive Awards, the time when Awards will be granted, the terms of such Awards and the number of shares of Common Stock, if any, which will be subject to such Awards. Unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, the Committee reserves the authority, in its absolute discretion (although it does not expect to exercise such authority other than in unusual or non-recurring circumstances), to (a) amend any outstanding Award Agreement in any respect, whether or not the rights of the Grantee of such Award are adversely affected (but subject to Sections 2.3.6, 2.4.5 and 2.9), including, without limitation, to accelerate the time or times at which the Award becomes vested, unrestricted or may be exercised, to waive or amend any restrictions or conditions set forth in such Award Agreement, or to impose new restrictions and conditions, or to reflect a change in the Grantee's circumstances and (b) determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances and method or methods (i) Awards may be (A) settled in shares of Common Stock, other securities, other Awards or other property or (B) canceled, forfeited or suspended, (ii) shares of Common Stock, other securities, other Awards or other property, and other amounts payable with respect to an Award may be deferred either automatically or at the election of the Grantee thereof or of the Committee and (iii) Awards may be settled by the Company or any of its designees. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Board may, in its sole discretion, at any time and from time to time, grant Awards (including grants to Directors) or administer the Plan, in which case the Board will have all of the authority and responsibility granted to the Committee herein. If so determined by the Committee, any Award made to an Officer or member of the Board will be made by the full Board or a committee or subcommittee of the Board composed of at least two Non-Employee Directors of AIG.
Committee
     1.3.2 Actions of the Committee may be taken by the vote of a majority of its members. To the extent not inconsistent with applicable law and the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange, (a) the Committee may delegate any of its powers under the Plan to a subcommittee of the Committee or to one of its members, (b) the Committee may allocate among its members any of its administrative responsibilities and (c) notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Committee may delegate the determination of Awards to Employees who are not Officers to one or more officers of AIG designated by the Committee from time to time.
 
     1.3.3 No Director or Employee (each such person, a "") will have any liability to any person (including any Grantee) for any action taken or omitted to be taken or any determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award. Each Covered Person will be indemnified and held harmless by AIG against and from any loss, cost, liability or expense (including attorneys' fees) that may be imposed upon or incurred by such Covered Person in connection with or resulting from any action, suit or proceeding to which such Covered Person may be a party or in which such Covered Person may be involved by reason of any action taken or omitted to be taken under the Plan or any Award Agreement and against and from any and all amounts paid by such Covered Person, with AIG's approval, in settlement thereof, or paid by such Covered Person in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding against such Covered Person, that AIG will have the right, at its own expense, to assume and defend any such action, suit or proceeding and, once AIG gives notice of its intent to assume the defense, AIG will have sole control over such defense with counsel of AIG's choice. The foregoing right of indemnification will not be available to a Covered Person to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction in a final judgment or other final adjudication, in either case, not subject to further appeal, determines that the acts or omissions of such Covered Person giving rise to the indemnification claim resulted from such Covered Person's bad faith, fraud or willful misconduct. The foregoing right of indemnification will not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which Covered Persons may be entitled under AIG's Restated Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any other power that AIG may have to indemnify such persons or hold them harmless.
Covered Person
provided
1.4 Persons Eligible for Awards
     Awards under the Plan may be made to Employees and Directors.
1.5 Types of Awards Under Plan
     Awards may be made under the Plan in the form of any of the following, in each case in respect of Common Stock: (a) stock options, (b) stock appreciation rights, (c) restricted shares, (d) restricted stock units, (e) dividend equivalent rights and (f) other equity-based or equity-related Awards that the Committee determines to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan and the interests of the Company.
1.6 Shares of Common Stock Available for Awards
     1.6.1 Subject to the other provisions of this Section 1.6, the total number of shares of Common Stock that may be granted under the Plan is 180,000,000. Such shares of Common Stock may, in the discretion of the Committee, be either authorized but unissued shares or shares previously issued and reacquired by AIG.
Common Stock Subject to the Plan.
     1.6.2 The number of shares of Common Stock granted under the Plan per year will be determined as follows: (a) each stock option, stock appreciate right and similar Award will count as 1 share of Common Stock and (b) each restricted share, restricted stock unit and similar Award will count as 2.9 shares of Common Stock. Shares of Common Stock issued in connection with awards that are
Share Counting.
 
assumed, converted or substituted as a result of the Company's acquisition of another company (including by way of merger, combination or similar transaction) will not count against the number of shares that may be issued under the Plan.
     1.6.3 If any Award is forfeited, expires, terminates or otherwise lapses, in whole or in part, without the delivery of Common Stock, then the shares of Common Stock covered by such forfeited, expired, terminated or lapsed award (counted in accordance with Section 1.6.2) will again be available for grant under the Plan. In addition, the following will be added to the number of shares available for grant under the Plan: (1) the number of shares of Common Stock underlying awards granted and outstanding under the Stock Option Plan before the Effective Date that are forfeited, expire, terminate or otherwise lapse on or after the Effective Date, in whole or in part, without the delivery of Common Stock and (2) the number of shares of Common Stock underlying awards granted and outstanding under the SIP before the Effective Date that are forfeited, expire, terminate or otherwise lapse on or after the Effective Date, in whole or in part, without the delivery of Common Stock (in each case, counted in accordance with Section 1.6.2). For the avoidance of doubt, the following shall not again become available for issuance under the Plan: (A) any shares of Common Stock withheld in respect of taxes, (B) any shares tendered or withheld to pay the exercise price of stock options, (C) any shares repurchased by the Company from the optionee with the proceeds from the exercise of stock options and (D) any shares subject to stock appreciation rights but not issued on exercise as a result of the operation of Section 2.4.4.
Replacement of Shares.
     1.6.4 The Committee will adjust the number of shares of Common Stock authorized pursuant to Section 1.6.1 and adjust equitably the terms of any outstanding Awards (including, without limitation, the number of shares of Common Stock covered by each outstanding Award, the type of property to which the Award is subject and the exercise or strike price of any Award), in such manner as it deems appropriate (including, without limitation, by payment of cash) to preserve the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available to grantees of Awards, for any increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock resulting from a recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination or exchange of shares of Common Stock, merger, consolidation, rights offering, separation, reorganization or liquidation, or any other change in the corporate structure or shares of AIG. After any adjustment made pursuant to this Section 1.6.4, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to each outstanding Award will be rounded down to the nearest whole number.
Adjustments.
2.1 Agreements Evidencing Awards
     Each Award granted under the Plan will be evidenced by an Award Agreement that will contain such provisions and conditions as the Committee deems appropriate. Unless otherwise provided herein, the Committee may grant Awards in tandem with or in substitution for any other Award or Awards granted under the Plan or any award granted under any other plan of AIG. By accepting an Award pursuant to the Plan, a Grantee thereby agrees that the Award will be subject to all of the terms and provisions of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement.
 
2.2 No Rights as a Shareholder
     No Grantee (or other person having rights pursuant to an Award) shall have any of the rights of a shareholder of AIG with respect to shares of Common Stock subject to an Award until the delivery of such shares. Except as otherwise provided in Section 1.6.4, no adjustments will be made for dividends, distributions or other rights (whether ordinary or extraordinary, and whether in cash, Common Stock, other securities or other property) for which the record date is before the date the Certificates for the shares are delivered.
2.3 Options
     2.3.1 . Stock options may be granted to eligible recipients in such number and at such times during the term of the Plan as the Committee or the Board may determine; , that the maximum number of shares of Common Stock as to which stock options may be granted under the Plan to any one individual in any one year may not exceed 1,000,000 shares (as adjusted pursuant to the provisions of Section 1.6.4).
Grant
provided, however
     2.3.2 At the time of grant, the Committee will determine (a) whether all or any part of a stock option granted to an eligible employee will be an Incentive Stock Option and (b) the number of shares subject to such Incentive Stock Option; , that (1) the aggregate fair market value (determined as of the time the option is granted) of the stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by an eligible employee during any calendar year (under all such plans of AIG and of any subsidiary corporation of AIG) will not exceed $100,000 and (2) no Incentive Stock Option (other than an Incentive Stock Option that may be assumed or issued by the Company in connection with a transaction to which Section 424(a) of the Code applies) may be granted to a person who is not eligible to receive an Incentive Stock Option under the Code. The form of any stock option which is entirely or in part an Incentive Stock Option will clearly indicate that such stock option is an Incentive Stock Option or, if applicable, the number of shares subject to the Incentive Stock Option.
Incentive Stock Options.
provided, however
     2.3.3 The exercise price per share with respect to each stock option will be determined by the Committee but will not be less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock. Unless otherwise noted in the Award Agreement, the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock will be its closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of grant of the Award of stock options.
Exercise Price.
     2.3.4 In no event will any stock option be exercisable after the expiration of 10 years from the date on which the stock option is granted.
Term of Stock Option.
     2.3.5 The shares of Common Stock covered by each stock option may not be purchased for one year after the date on which the stock option is granted (except in the case of termination of Employment due to death, disability or retirement), but thereafter may be purchased in such installments as will be determined in the Award Agreement at the time the stock option is granted. Subject to any limitations in the applicable Award Agreement, any shares not purchased on the applicable installment date may be purchased thereafter at any time before the final expiration of the stock option. To exercise a stock option, the Grantee must give written notice to AIG specifying the
Exercise of Stock Option and Payment for Shares.
 
number of shares to be purchased and accompanied by payment of the full purchase price therefor in cash or by certified or official bank check or in another form as determined by the Company, including: (a) personal check, (b) shares of Common Stock, valued as of the exercise date, of the same class as those to be granted by exercise of the stock option, (c) any other form of consideration approved by the Company and permitted by applicable law and (d) any combination of the foregoing. Any person exercising a stock option will make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee may in its discretion deem necessary or desirable to assure compliance by AIG, on terms acceptable to AIG, with the provisions of the Securities Act and any other applicable legal requirements. If a Grantee so requests, shares purchased may be issued in the name of the Grantee and another jointly with the right of survivorship.
     2.3.6 Except as otherwise permitted by Section 1.6.4, reducing the exercise price of stock options issued and outstanding under the Plan, including through amendment, cancellation in exchange for the grant of a substitute Award or repurchase for cash or other consideration (in each case that has the effect of reducing the exercise price), will require approval of the shareholders.
Repricing.
2.4 Stock Appreciation Rights
     2.4.1 Stock appreciation rights may be granted to eligible recipients in such number and at such times during the term of the Plan as the Committee or the Board may determine; , that the maximum number of shares of Common Stock as to which stock appreciation rights may be granted under the Plan to any one individual in any one year may not exceed 1,000,000 shares (as adjusted pursuant to the provisions of Section 1.6.4).
Grant.
provided, however
     2.4.2 The exercise price per share with respect to each stock appreciation right will be determined by the Committee but will not be less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock. Unless otherwise noted in the Award Agreement, the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock will be its closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of grant of the Award of stock appreciation rights.
Exercise Price.
     2.4.3 In no event will any stock appreciation right be exercisable after the expiration of 10 years from the date on which the Stock Appreciation Right is granted.
Term of Stock Appreciation Right.
     2.4.4 Each stock appreciation right may not be exercised for one year after the date on which the stock appreciation right is granted (except in the case of termination of Employment due to death, disability or retirement), but thereafter may be exercised in such installments as may be determined in the Award Agreement at the time the stock appreciation right is granted. Subject to any limitations in the applicable Award Agreement, any stock appreciation rights not exercised on the applicable installment date may be exercised thereafter at any time before the final expiration of the stock appreciation right. To exercise a stock appreciation right, the Grantee must give written notice to AIG specifying the number of stock appreciation rights to be exercised. Upon exercise of stock appreciation rights, shares of Common Stock with a Fair Market Value equal to (a) the excess of (1) the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of exercise (2) the exercise price of such stock
Exercise of Stock Appreciation Right and Delivery of Shares.
over
 
appreciation right (b) the number of stock appreciation rights exercised will be delivered to the Grantee. Any person exercising a stock appreciation right will make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee may in its discretion deem necessary or desirable to assure compliance by AIG, on terms acceptable to AIG, with the provisions of the Securities Act and any other applicable legal requirements. If a Grantee so requests, shares purchased may be issued in the name of the Grantee and another jointly with the right of survivorship.
multiplied by
     2.4.5 Except as otherwise permitted by Section 1.6.4, reducing the exercise price of stock appreciation rights issued and outstanding under the Plan, including through amendment, cancellation in exchange for the grant of a substitute Award or repurchase for cash or other consideration (in each case that has the effect of reducing the exercise price), will require approval of the shareholders.
Repricing.
2.5 Restricted Shares
     2.5.1 The Committee may grant or offer for sale restricted shares in such amounts and subject to Section 2.9 and such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine. Upon the delivery of such shares, the Grantee will have the rights of a shareholder with respect to the restricted shares, subject to Section 2.9 and any other restrictions and conditions as the Committee may include in the applicable Award Agreement. In the event that a Certificate is issued in respect of restricted shares, such Certificate may be registered in the name of the Grantee but will be held by AIG or its designated agent until the time the restrictions lapse.
Grants.
     2.5.2 Each Grantee of an Award of restricted shares will, during the period of restriction, be the beneficial and record owner of such restricted shares and will have full voting rights with respect thereto. Unless the Committee determines otherwise in an Award Agreement, during the period of restriction, all ordinary cash dividends (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) paid upon any restricted share will be retained by the Company for the account of the relevant Grantee. Such dividends will revert back to the Company if for any reason the restricted share upon which such dividends were paid reverts back to the Company. Upon the expiration of the period of restriction, all such dividends made on such restricted share and retained by the Company will be paid to the relevant Grantee. Unless the applicable Award Agreement provides otherwise, additional shares or other property distributed to the Grantee in respect of restricted shares, as dividends or otherwise, will be subject to the same restrictions applicable to such restricted shares.
Right to Vote and Receive Dividends on Restricted Shares.
2.6 Restricted Stock Units
     The Committee may grant Awards of restricted stock units in such amounts and subject to Section 2.9 and such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine. A Grantee of a restricted stock unit will have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of AIG until delivery of shares of Common Stock or other securities or property is made as specified in the applicable Award Agreement. On the delivery date specified in the Award Agreement, the Grantee of each restricted stock unit not previously forfeited or terminated will receive one share of Common
 
Stock, or securities or other property equal in value to a share of Common Stock or a combination thereof, as specified by the Committee.
2.7 Dividend Equivalent Rights
     The Committee may include in the Award Agreement with respect to any Award a dividend equivalent right entitling the Grantee to receive amounts equal to all or any portion of the dividends that would be paid on the shares of Common Stock covered by such Award if such shares had been delivered pursuant to such Award. The grantee of a dividend equivalent right will have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of AIG until payment of such amounts is made as specified in the applicable Award Agreement. In the event such a provision is included in an Award Agreement, the Committee will determine whether such payments will be made in cash, in shares of Common Stock or in another form, whether they will be conditioned upon the exercise of the Award to which they relate, the time or times at which they will be made, and such other terms and conditions as the Committee will deem appropriate.
2.8 Other Stock-Based Awards
     Subject to Section 2.9, the Committee may grant other types of equity-based or equity-related Awards (including the grant or offer for sale of unrestricted shares of Common Stock) in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine. Such Awards may entail the transfer of actual shares of Common Stock to Award recipients and may include Awards designed to comply with or take advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than the United States. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, a maximum of 3,000,000 shares of Common Stock (which, for purposes of Section 1.6, would represent 8,700,000 of the available shares of Common Stock under this Plan when counted in accordance with Section 1.6.2) may be delivered under the Plan pursuant to this Section 2.8 without giving effect to the restrictions set forth in Section 2.9.
2.9 Certain Restrictions
     In the case of an Award in the form of restricted shares, restricted stock units or similar Awards, at least three years must elapse before the delivery or payment of shares of Common Stock or other property, in the case of (a) termination of Employment due to death, disability or retirement, (b) an Award that the Committee determines is performance based, in which case at least one year must elapse or (c) an Award to a Director who is not an Employee. To the extent shares under the Plan are delivered by AIG to perform its obligations under the Assurance Agreement, the period referred to in the preceding sentence will determined from the date of the underlying award by Starr International Company, Inc.
except
3.1 Amendment of the Plan
     3.1.1 Unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, the Board may from time to time suspend, discontinue, revise or amend the Plan in any respect
 
     whatsoever, including in any manner that adversely affects the rights, duties or obligations of any Grantee of an Award.
     3.1.2 Unless otherwise determined by the Board, shareholder approval of any suspension, discontinuance, revision or amendment will be obtained only to the extent necessary to comply with any applicable laws, regulations or rules of a securities exchange or self-regulatory agency.
3.2 Tax Withholding
     As a condition to the delivery of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any Award or the lifting or lapse of restrictions on any Award, or in connection with any other event that gives rise to a federal or other governmental tax withholding obligation on the part of the Company relating to an Award (including, without limitation, FICA tax), (a) the Company may deduct or withhold (or cause to be deducted or withheld) from any payment or distribution to a Grantee whether or not pursuant to the Plan (including shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable) or (b) the Committee will be entitled to require that the Grantee remit cash to the Company (through payroll deduction or otherwise), in each case in an amount sufficient in the opinion of the Company to satisfy such withholding obligation.
3.3 Required Consents and Legends
     3.3.1 If the Committee at any time determines that any Consent (as hereinafter defined) is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of any Award, the delivery of shares of Common Stock or the delivery of any securities or other property under the Plan, or the taking of any other action thereunder (each such action a ""), then such Plan Action will not be taken, in whole or in part, unless and until such Consent will have been effected or obtained to the full satisfaction of the Committee. The Committee may direct that any Certificate evidencing shares delivered pursuant to the Plan will bear a legend setting forth such restrictions on transferability as the Committee may determine to be necessary or desirable, and may advise the transfer agent to place a stop transfer order against any legended shares.
Plan Action
     3.3.2 The term "" as used in this Article III with respect to any Plan Action includes (a) any and all listings, registrations or qualifications in respect thereof upon any securities exchange or under any federal, state, or local law, or law, rule or regulation of a jurisdiction outside the United States, (b) or any other matter, which the Committee may deem necessary or desirable to comply with the terms of any such listing, registration or qualification or to obtain an exemption from the requirement that any such listing, qualification or registration be made, (c) any and all other consents, clearances and approvals in respect of a Plan Action by any governmental or other regulatory body or any stock exchange or self-regulatory agency and (d) any and all consents required by the Committee. Nothing herein will require the Company to list, register or qualify the shares of Common Stock on any securities exchange.
Consent
 
3.4 Right of Offset
     The Company will have the right to offset against its obligation to deliver shares of Common Stock (or other property) under the Plan or any Award Agreement any outstanding amounts (including, without limitation, travel and entertainment or advance account balances, loans, repayment obligations under any Awards, or amounts repayable to the Company pursuant to tax equalization, housing, automobile or other employee programs) that the Grantee then owes to the Company and any amounts the Committee otherwise deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.
3.5 Nonassignability; No Hedging
     No Award (or any rights and obligations thereunder) granted to any person under the Plan may be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of or hedged, in any manner (including through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily and whether by operation of law or otherwise, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Any sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, or other disposition in violation of the provisions of this Section 3.5 will be null and void and any Award which is hedged in any manner will immediately be forfeited. All of the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Award Agreements will be binding upon any permitted successors and assigns.
3.6 Successor Entity
     Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement and except as otherwise determined by the Committee, in the event of a merger, consolidation, mandatory share exchange or other similar business combination of AIG with or into any other entity ("") or any transaction in which another person or entity acquires all of the issued and outstanding Common Stock of AIG, or all or substantially all of the assets of AIG, outstanding Awards may be assumed or a substantially equivalent award may be substituted by such successor entity or a parent or subsidiary of such successor entity.
Successor Entity
3.7 Right of Discharge Reserved
     Nothing in the Plan or in any Award Agreement will confer upon any Grantee the right to continued Employment by the Company or affect any right which the Company may have to terminate such Employment.
3.8 Nature of Payments
     3.8.1 Any and all grants of Awards and deliveries of Common Stock, securities or other property under the Plan will be in consideration of services performed or to be performed for the Company by the Grantee. Awards under the Plan may, in the discretion of the Committee, be made in substitution in whole or in part for cash or other compensation otherwise payable to a participant in the Plan. Only whole shares of Common Stock will be delivered under the Plan. Awards will, to the extent reasonably practicable, be aggregated in order to eliminate any fractional shares.
 
     Fractional shares may, in the discretion of the Committee, be forfeited or be settled in cash or otherwise as the Committee may determine.
     3.8.2 All such grants and deliveries will constitute a special discretionary incentive payment to the Grantee and will not be required to be taken into account in computing the amount of salary or compensation of the Grantee for the purpose of determining any contributions to or any benefits under any pension, retirement, profit-sharing, bonus, life insurance, severance or other benefit plan of the Company or under any agreement with the Grantee, unless the Company specifically provides otherwise.
3.9 Non-Uniform Determinations
     3.9.1 The Committee's determinations under the Plan and Award Agreements need not be uniform and may be made by it selectively among persons who receive, or are eligible to receive, Awards under the Plan (whether or not such persons are similarly situated). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee will be entitled, among other things, to make non-uniform and selective determinations under Award Agreements, and to enter into non-uniform and selective Award Agreements, as to (a) the persons to receive Awards, (b) the terms and provisions of Awards and (c) whether a Grantee's Employment has been terminated for purposes of the Plan.
     3.9.2 To the extent the Committee deems it necessary, appropriate or desirable to comply with foreign law or practices and to further the purposes of the Plan, the Committee may, without amending the Plan, establish special rules applicable to Awards to Grantees who are foreign nationals, are employed outside the United States or both and grant Awards (or amend existing Awards) in accordance with those rules.
3.10 Other Payments or Awards
     Nothing contained in the Plan will be deemed in any way to limit or restrict the Company from making any award or payment to any person under any other plan, arrangement or understanding, whether now existing or hereafter in effect.
3.11 Plan Headings
     The headings in the Plan are for the purpose of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.
3.12 Termination of Plan
     The Board reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time; , that in any case, the Plan will terminate May 16, 2017, and , that all Awards made under the Plan before its termination will remain in effect until such Awards have been satisfied or terminated in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreements.
provided, however
provided further
 
3.13 Section 409A Payment Delay
     Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, to the extent any payment to be made pursuant to an Award in connection with a termination of an Employee's Employment would be subject to the additional tax of Section 409A of the Code, the payment will be delayed until six months after such a termination (or earlier death or disability (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code)).
3.14 Governing Law
     THE PLAN WILL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.
3.15 Severability; Entire Agreement
     If any of the provisions of the Plan or any Award Agreement is finally held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable (whether in whole or in part), such provision will be deemed modified to the extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability and the remaining provisions will not be affected thereby; that if any of such provisions is finally held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable because it exceeds the maximum scope determined to be acceptable to permit such provision to be enforceable, such provision will be deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to modify such scope in order to make such provision enforceable hereunder. The Plan and any Award Agreements contain the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter thereof and supersede all prior agreements, promises, covenants, arrangements, communications, representations and warranties between them, whether written or oral with respect to the subject matter thereof.
provided
3.16 Waiver of Claims
     Each Grantee of an Award recognizes and agrees that before being selected by the Committee to receive an Award he or she has no right to any benefits hereunder. Accordingly, in consideration of the Grantee's receipt of any Award hereunder, he or she expressly waives any right to contest the amount of any Award, the terms of any Award Agreement, any determination, action or omission hereunder or under any Award Agreement by the Committee, the Company or the Board, or any amendment to the Plan or any Award Agreement (other than an amendment to the Plan or an Award Agreement to which his or her consent is expressly required by the express terms of an Award Agreement).
3.17 No Third Party Beneficiaries
     Except as expressly provided therein, neither the Plan nor any Award Agreement will confer on any person other than the Company and the Grantee of any Award any rights or remedies thereunder. The exculpation and indemnification provisions of Section 1.3.2 will inure to the benefit of a Covered Person's estate and beneficiaries and legatees.
 
3.18 Successors and Assigns of AIG
     The terms of the Plan will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of AIG and any successor entity contemplated by Section 3.6.
3.19 Date of Adoption and Approval of Shareholders
     The Plan was adopted on March 14, 2007 by the Board and approved by the shareholders of AIG at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.


