FILE:AIG/AIG-8K-20070119162120.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 ------------------------ FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): January 17, 2007 AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) Delaware 1-8787 13-2592361 (State or Other (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Jurisdiction of Identification No.) Incorporation) 70 Pine Street New York, New York 10270 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 770-7000 ------------------------------------------ (Former name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management Item 5.03. Amendment to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Changes in Fiscal Year. On January 17, 2007, the Board of Directors of American International Group, Inc. (AIG) upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors, adopted amended and restated By-laws of AIG. The changes and amendment to the By-laws were made to conform with changes in the Delaware General Corporation Law, to clarify existing provisions of the By-laws and to clarify when indemnification and advancement of expenses are permitted or required. The description of certain of the amendments to AIG's By-laws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended and Restated By-laws, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 3(ii) to this Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein. A copy of the By-laws that existed prior to the amendment and restatement is included as Exhibit 3(ii) to AIG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and is incorporated herein by reference. Sections 1.7 (Inspectors), 1.9 (Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholder of Record), 1.11 (Consent of Stockholders in Lieu of Meeting) and 5.1 (Certificates) of the By-laws were revised to reflect changes in the Delaware General Corporation Law. The following sections of the By-laws were revised: Section 1.6 Organization; to clarify the Chairman's authority to run a meeting of stockholders; Section 1.8 Classes or Series of Stock; Voting Proxies; to clarify that abstentions and broker non-votes will not be included in determining whether a matter has been approved; Section 1.12 Advance Notice of Stockholder Nominees for Director and Other Stockholder Proposals; to clarify that stockholders must submit such information with respect to a nominee for election of directors as is necessary for the Board of Directors to determine the nominee's independence; Section 1.13 Approval of Stockholder Proposals; to clarify that stockholder proposals pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 must receive a majority vote of all the outstanding shares of AIG's common stock in order to be approved; Section 2.8 Organization; to specify that the Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will preside at meetings of the Board of Directors when the Chairman is absent; and Section 3.1 Committees; to reflect the three standing committees required by the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. listing standards. The Amended and Restated By-laws also revise Section 6.4 relating to the indemnification and advancement of expenses. Prior to the amendment, Section 6.4 contained a short-form indemnification provision. The Amended and Restated By-laws expand Section 6.4 to provide that: - expenses do not include expenses as a result of a suit by the indemnitee as plaintiff; - indemnification is not available for claims of short-swing profit recovery under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or insider trading claims; - indemnitees must promptly notify AIG of the indemnitee's receipt of notice of the claim; - indemnitees must keep information confidential; - indemnitees must assist AIG in asserting any subrogation rights; and - all proceedings relating to indemnification and advance of expenses must be brought in the Delaware Chancery Court.
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (d) Exhibits. Exhibit 3(ii) American International Group, Inc. By-laws, as amended and restated on January 17, 2007. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. (Registrant) Date: January 19, 2007 By /s/ KATHLEEN E. SHANNON ------------------------------------ Name: Kathleen E. Shannon Title: Senior Vice President and Secretary

AMENDED AND RESTATED JANUARY 17, 2007 AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC. BY-LAWS ARTICLE I Stockholders Section 1.1. Annual Meetings. An annual meeting of stockholders shall be held for the election of directors at such date, time and place either within or without the State of Delaware as may be designated by the Board of Directors from time to time. Any other proper business may be transacted at the annual meeting. Section 1.2. Special Meetings. Special meetings of stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Chairman, if any, the Chief Executive Officer, if any, the Secretary or the Board of Directors, to be held at such date, time and place either within or without the State of Delaware as may be stated in the notice of the meeting. A special meeting of stockholders shall be called by the Secretary upon the written request, stating the purpose of the meeting, of stockholders who together own of record twenty-five (25) percent of the outstanding shares of each class of stock entitled to vote at such meeting. Section 1.3. Notice of Meetings. Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice of the meeting shall be given which shall state the place, date and time of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Unless otherwise provided by law, the written notice of any meeting shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of such meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. No business other than that stated in the notice shall be transacted at any special meeting without the unanimous consent of all the stockholders entitled to vote thereat. Section 1.4. Adjournments. Any meeting of stockholders, annual or special, may adjourn from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken; provided, that if the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting. At the adjourned meeting
the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. Section 1.5. Quorum. At each meeting of stockholders, except where otherwise provided by law or the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of each class of stock entitled to vote at the meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum. In the absence of a quorum, the stockholders so present may, by majority vote, adjourn the meeting from time to time in the manner provided by Section 1.4 of these by-laws until a quorum shall attend. Shares of its own capital stock belonging on the record date for the meeting to the Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not limit the right of the Corporation to vote stock, including but not limited to its own stock, held by it in a fiduciary capacity. Section 1.6. Organization. Meetings of stockholders shall be presided over by the Chairman, or in the absence of the Chairman by the Chief Executive Officer, or in the absence of the Chief Executive Officer by the Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, or in the absence of the foregoing persons by a chairman designated by the Board of Directors, or in the absence of such designation by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, or in the absence of the Secretary an Assistant Secretary shall so act, or in their absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting. The order of business at each such meeting shall be as determined by the chairman of the meeting. The chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts and things as are necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, the establishment of procedures for the maintenance of order and safety, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, restrictions on entry to such meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and the opening and closing of the voting polls. Section 1.7. Inspectors. Prior to any meeting of stockholders, the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at such meeting and make a written report thereof and may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at the meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, determine the shares represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, count all votes and ballots, determine and retain for a reasonable period a -2-
record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors and certify their determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting and their count of all votes and ballots. The inspectors may appoint or retain other persons to assist them in the performance of their duties. The date and time of the opening and closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting. No ballot, proxy or vote, nor any revocation thereof or change thereto, shall be accepted by the inspectors after the closing of the polls. In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots, the inspectors shall be limited to an examination of the proxies, any envelopes submitted therewith, any information provided by a stockholder who submits a proxy by telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission from which it can be determined that the proxy was authorized by the stockholder, ballots and the regular books and records of the Corporation, and they may also consider other reliable information for the limited purpose of reconciling proxies and ballots submitted by or on behalf of banks, brokers, their nominees or similar persons which represent more votes than the holder of a proxy is authorized by the record owner to cast or more votes than the stockholder holds of record. If the inspectors consider other reliable information for such purpose, they shall, at the time they make their certification, specify the precise information considered by them, including the person or persons from whom they obtained the information, when the information was obtained, the means by which the information was obtained and the basis for the inspectors' belief that such information is accurate and reliable. Section 1.8. Classes or Series of Stock; Voting Proxies. For purposes of this Article I, two or more classes or series of stock shall be considered a single class if and to the extent that the holders thereof are entitled to vote together as a single class at the meeting. Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation, each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by such stockholder which has voting power upon the matter in question. Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders or to express consent or dissent to corporate action in writing without a meeting may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A duly executed proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by filing an instrument in writing revoking the proxy or another duly executed proxy bearing a later date with the Secretary of the Corporation. Voting at meetings of stockholders need not be by written ballot and need not be conducted by inspectors unless the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of all classes of stock entitled to vote thereon present in person or by proxy at such meeting shall so determine. At all meetings of stockholders for the election of directors a plurality of the votes cast shall be sufficient to elect. With respect to other matters, unless otherwise provided by law or by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of all classes of stock present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter -3-
shall be the act of the stockholders, provided that (except as otherwise required by law or by the certificate of incorporation) the Board of Directors may require in the notice of meeting a larger vote upon any such matter. Only votes cast "for" or "against" a matter shall be considered affirmative votes; abstentions, broker non-votes and withheld votes shall not be treated as affirmative votes and shall not be taken into account in determining whether a matter is approved. Where a separate vote by class is required, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of each class present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting shall be the act of such class, except as otherwise provided by law or by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws. Section 1.9. Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix, a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than ten (10) days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action. -4-
In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty (60) days prior to such action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. Section 1.10. List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote. The Secretary shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. Section 1.11. Consent of Stockholders in Lieu of Meeting. Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, any action required by law to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, or any action which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of such stockholders, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent or consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted and shall be delivered to the Corporation by delivery to (a) its registered office in the State of Delaware by hand or by certified mail or registered mail, return receipt requested, (b) its principal place of business, or (c) an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within sixty (60) days of the earliest dated consent delivered in the manner required by this Section 1.11 to the Corporation, written consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take action are delivered to the Corporation by delivery to (a) its registered office in the State of Delaware by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, (b) its principal place of business, or (c) an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing and who, -5-
if the action had been taken at a meeting, would have been entitled to notice of the meeting if the record date for such meeting had been the date that written consents signed by a sufficient number of stockholders to take the action were delivered to the Corporation as provided in this Section 1.11. Section 1.12. Advance Notice of Stockholder Nominees for Director and Other Stockholder Proposals. (a) The matters to be considered and brought before any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation shall be limited to only such matters, including the nomination and election of directors, as shall be brought properly before such meeting in compliance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.12. For any matter to be properly brought before any annual meeting of stockholders, the matter must be (i) specified in the notice of annual meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) brought before the annual meeting in the manner specified in this Section 1.12(a), (x) by a stockholder that holds of record stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at the annual meeting on such matter (including any election of a director) or (y) by a person (a "Nominee Holder") that holds such stock through a nominee or "street name" holder of record of such stock and can demonstrate to the Corporation such indirect ownership of, and such Nominee Holder's entitlement to vote, such stock on such matter. In addition to any other requirements under applicable law, the certificate of incorporation and these by-laws, persons nominated by stockholders for election as directors of the Corporation and any other proposals by stockholders shall be properly brought before an annual meeting of stockholders only if notice of any such matter to be presented by a stockholder at such meeting (a "Stockholder Notice") shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) nor more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the first anniversary date of the annual meeting for the preceding year; provided, however, that if and only if the annual meeting is not scheduled to be held within a period that commences thirty (30) days before and ends thirty (30) days after such anniversary date (an annual meeting date outside such period being referred to herein as an "Other Meeting Date"), such Stockholder Notice shall be given in the manner provided herein by the later of (i) the close of business on the date ninety (90) days prior to such Other Meeting Date or (ii) the close of business on the tenth (10) day following the date on which such Other Meeting Date is first publicly announced or disclosed. Any stockholder desiring to nominate any person or persons (as the case may be) for election as a director or directors of the Corporation at an annual meeting of stockholders shall deliver, as part of such Stockholder Notice, a statement in writing setting forth the name of the person or persons to be nominated, the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Corporation owned of record and beneficially by each such person, as reported to such stockholder by such person, the information regarding each such person required by paragraphs (a), (e) and (f) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, each such person's signed consent to serve as a director of the Corporation if elected, such stockholder's name and address, the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the -6-
Corporation owned of record and beneficially by such stockholder and, in the case of a Nominee Holder, evidence establishing such Nominee Holder's indirect ownership of stock and entitlement to vote such stock for the election of directors at the annual meeting. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine whether the nominee would be considered "independent" under the various rules and standards applicable to the Corporation. Any stockholder who gives a Stockholder Notice of any matter (other than a nomination for director) proposed to be brought before an annual meeting of stockholders shall deliver, as part of such Stockholder Notice, the text of the proposal to be presented and a brief written statement of the reasons why such stockholder favors the proposal and setting forth such stockholder's name and address, the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Corporation owned of record and beneficially by such stockholder, any material interest of such stockholder in the matter proposed (other than as a stockholder), if applicable, and, in the case of a Nominee Holder, evidence establishing such Nominee Holder's indirect ownership of stock and entitlement to vote such stock on the matter proposed at the annual meeting. As used in these by-laws, shares "beneficially owned" shall mean all shares which such person is deemed to beneficially own pursuant to Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). If a stockholder is entitled to vote only for a specific class or category of directors at a meeting (annual or special), such stockholder's right to nominate one or more individuals for election as a director at the meeting shall be limited to such class or category of directors. Notwithstanding any provision of this Section 1.12 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at the next annual meeting of stockholders is increased by virtue of an increase in the size of the Board of Directors and either all of the nominees for director at the next annual meeting of stockholders or the size of the increased Board of Directors is not publicly announced or disclosed by the Corporation at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a Stockholder Notice shall also be considered timely hereunder, but only with respect to nominees to stand for election at the next annual meeting as the result of any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10) day following the first day on which all such nominees or the size of the increased Board of Directors shall have been publicly announced or disclosed. (b) Except as provided in the immediately following sentence, no matter shall be properly brought before a special meeting of stockholders unless such matter shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of such meeting. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of such director(s) at such meeting may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as are specified in the Corporation's notice of such meeting, but only if the Stockholder Notice required by Section 1.11(b) hereof shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10) day following the -7-
first day on which the date of the special meeting and either the names of all nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting or the number of directors to be elected shall have been publicly announced or disclosed. (c) For purposes of this Section 1.12, a matter shall be deemed to have been "publicly announced or disclosed" if such matter is disclosed in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, the Associated Press or a comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission. (d) In no event shall the adjournment of an annual meeting or a special meeting, or any announcement thereof, commence a new period for the giving of notice as provided in this Section 1.12. This Section 1.12 shall not apply to (i) any stockholder proposal made pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) any nomination of a director in an election in which only the holders of one or more series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation issued pursuant to Article FOUR of the certificate of incorporation are entitled to vote (unless otherwise provided in the terms of such stock). (e) The chairman of any meeting of stockholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall have the power and duty to determine whether notice of nominees and other matters proposed to be brought before a meeting has been duly given in the manner provided in this Section 1.12 and, if not so given, shall direct and declare at the meeting that such nominees and other matters shall not be considered. Section 1.13. Approval of Stockholder Proposals. Except as otherwise required by law, any matter (other than a nomination for director) that has been properly brought before an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation by a stockholder (including a Nominee Holder) in compliance with the procedures set forth in Section 1.12 and any stockholder proposal pursuant to Rule 14a-8 shall require for approval thereof the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than a majority of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation and all other outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter, with such outstanding shares of Common Stock and other stock considered for this purpose as a single class. Any vote of stockholders required by this Section 1.13 shall be in addition to any other vote of stockholders of the Corporation that may be required by law, the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, by any agreement with a national securities exchange or otherwise. Section 1.14. Reimbursement. If a stockholder (including a Nominee Holder) has brought a matter before an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and the matter is included in the Corporation's proxy materials pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act and is approved by the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation and all other outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter (with -8-
such outstanding shares of Common Stock and other stock considered for this purpose as a single class), the Corporation shall reimburse the stockholder for all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in bringing the matter before the meeting of stockholders, including reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in opposing any efforts by the Corporation to (i) exclude the matter from the Corporation's proxy materials and (ii) solicit votes in opposition; provided, however, that such reimbursement shall not exceed the amount spent by the Corporation in efforts to exclude the matter from the Corporation's proxy materials and solicit votes in opposition. ARTICLE II Board of Directors Section 2.1. Powers; Number; Qualifications. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise provided by law or in the certificate of incorporation. The Board shall consist of not less than seven nor more than twenty-one (21) members, the number thereof to be determined from time to time by the Board; provided, however, that in determining the number of directors no account shall be taken of any non-voting director, including any advisory or honorary director, that may be elected from time to time by a majority of the Board of Directors. The number of directors may be increased by amendment of these by-laws by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of all classes of stock entitled to vote thereon, and by like vote the additional directors may be elected to hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders and until their respective successors are elected and qualified or until their respective earlier resignations or removals. Directors need not be stockholders. Section 2.2. Election; Term of Office; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies. Each director shall hold office until the annual meeting of stockholders next succeeding his or her election and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board of Directors or to the Chairman or the Secretary of the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, and no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective. Any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors; and any vacancy so created may be filled by the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors. Whenever the holders of any class or series of stock are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, the provisions of the preceding sentence shall apply, in respect to the removal without cause of a director or directors so elected, to the vote of the holders of the outstanding shares of that class or series and not to the vote of the outstanding shares as a whole. Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of -9-
incorporation or these by-laws, vacancies (other than any vacancy created by removal of a director by shareholder vote) and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors elected by all of the stockholders having the right to vote as a single class or from any other cause may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, vacancies and newly created directorships of such class or classes or series may, unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation, be filled by a majority of the directors elected by such class or classes or series thereof then in office, or by the sole remaining director so elected. Section 2.3. Regular Meetings. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at such places within or without the State of Delaware and at such times as the Board may from time to time determine, and if so determined notice thereof need not be given. Section 2.4. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time or place within or without the State of Delaware whenever called by the Chairman or by the Chief Executive Officer or on the written request of any two directors. Reasonable notice thereof, which may be by telephone or email, shall be given by the person calling the meeting. Section 2.5. Participation in Meetings by Conference Telephone Permitted. Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board, may participate in a meeting of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 2.5 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. Section 2.6. Quorum; Vote Required for Action. At all meetings of the Board of Directors a majority of the entire Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board unless the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws shall require a vote of a greater number. In case at any meeting of the Board a quorum shall not be present, a majority of the members of the Board present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall attend, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which adjournment is taken. Section 2.7. Chairman. The Board of Directors shall annually select one of its members who is independent under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards to be Chairman and shall fill any vacancy in the position of Chairman at such time and in such manner as the Board of Directors shall determine. -10-
Section 2.8. Organization. Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chairman or, in the absence of the Chairman by the Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee or in their absence by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary, or in the absence of the Secretary an Assistant Secretary, shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in the absence of the Secretary and any Assistant Secretary the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting. Section 2.9. Action by Directors Without a Meeting. Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee. Section 2.10. Compensation of Directors. The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors. ARTICLE III Committees Section 3.1. Committees. The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of two or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent permitted by applicable law and provided in the resolution of the Board or in these by-laws, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. The standing committees of the Board of Directors shall be the Audit Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Compensation Committee, such additional committees as may be required by the New York Stock Exchange listing standards or other applicable law and such additional committees as the Board of Directors may designate pursuant to this Section 3.1, in each case with such name or names as may be stated in these by-laws or as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors. The committees shall keep regular minutes of their proceedings and report the same to the Board of Directors when required. -11-
The Executive Committee, if one shall be designated, to the extent permitted by applicable law shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Except as otherwise provided from time to time in resolutions passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, the powers and authority of the Executive Committee shall include the power and authority to declare a dividend on stock, to authorize the issuance of stock and to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Except as otherwise provided from time to time in resolutions passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, the power and authority of the Executive Committee shall not include the power or authority to nominate persons to serve as directors or to fill vacancies or newly created directorships, which power and authority shall be vested in the Board of Directors. Section 3.2. Committee Rules. Unless the Board of Directors otherwise provides, each committee designated by the Board may adopt, amend and repeal rules for the conduct of its business. In the absence of a provision by the Board or a provision in the rules of such committee to the contrary, a majority of the members of such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, the vote of a majority of the members present at a meeting at the time of such vote if a quorum is then present shall be the act of such committee, and in other respects each committee shall conduct its business in the same manner as the Board conducts its business pursuant to Article II of these by-laws. ARTICLE IV Officers Section 4.1. Officers; Election. As soon as practicable after the annual meeting of stockholders in each year, the Board of Directors shall elect a Chief Executive Officer and a Secretary, and it may, if it so determines, elect one or more Vice Chairmen. The Board may also elect a President, one or more Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, a Treasurer and one or more Assistant Treasurers and such other officers as the Board may deem desirable or appropriate and may give any of them such further designations or alternate titles as it considers desirable. Any number of offices may be held by the same person. Section 4.2. Term of Office; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies. Except as otherwise provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors electing any officer each officer shall hold office until the first meeting of the Board after the annual meeting of stockholders next succeeding his or her election, and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board or to the Chairman or to the Chief Executive Officer or to the Secretary of the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect at the -12-
time specified therein, and no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective. The Board may remove any officer with or without cause at any time. Any such removal shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights of such officer, if any, with the Corporation, but the election of an officer shall not of itself create contractual rights. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation by death, resignation, removal or otherwise may be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Board at any regular or special meeting. Section 4.3. Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer shall have general charge and supervision of the business of the Corporation and shall perform all duties incident to the office of a Chief Executive Officer of a corporation and such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board. Section 4.4. Vice Chairman. Any Vice Chairman shall have and may exercise such powers as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer. Section 4.5. Vice Presidents. Vice Presidents include all Executive Vice Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents. The Vice President or Vice Presidents shall have such powers and shall perform such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her or them by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or as may be provided by law. Section 4.6. Secretary. The Secretary shall have the duty to record or cause to be recorded the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders, the Board of Directors and any committees in a book to be kept for that purpose, shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these by-laws or as required by law, shall be custodian of the records of the Corporation, may affix the corporate seal to any document the execution of which, on behalf of the Corporation, is duly authorized, and when so affixed may attest the same, and, in general, shall perform all duties incident to the office of secretary of a corporation and such other duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or as may be provided by law. Section 4.7. Treasurer. The Treasurer shall have charge of and be responsible for all funds, securities, receipts and disbursements of the Corporation and shall deposit or cause to be deposited, in the name of the Corporation, all moneys or other valuable effects in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as shall, from time to time, be selected by or under authority of the Board of Directors. If required by the Board, the Treasurer shall give a bond for the faithful discharge of his or her duties, with such surety or sureties as the Board may determine. The Treasurer shall keep or cause to be kept full and accurate records of all receipts and disbursements in books of the Corporation, shall render to the Chief Executive Officer and to the Board, whenever requested, an account of the financial condition of the Corporation, and, in general, shall perform all the duties incident to the office of treasurer of a corporation and such other -13-
duties as may, from time to time, be assigned to him or her by the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or as may be provided by law. Section 4.8. Other Officers. The other officers, if any, of the Corporation, including any Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries, shall have such powers and duties in the management of the Corporation as shall be stated in a resolution of the Board of Directors which is not inconsistent with these by-laws and, to the extent not so stated, as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the control of the Board. The Board may require any officer, agent or employee to give security for the faithful performance of his or her duties. ARTICLE V Stock Section 5.1. Certificates. Except as otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, every holder of stock in the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman or a Vice Chairman, if any, or the Chief Executive Officer, if any, or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by such holder in the Corporation. If such certificate is manually signed by one officer or manually countersigned by a transfer agent or by a registrar, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. Section 5.2. Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Stock Certificates; Issuance of New Certificates. The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such owner's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate. ARTICLE VI Miscellaneous Section 6.1. Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the calendar year. Section 6.2. Seal. The Corporation may have a corporate seal which shall have the name of the Corporation inscribed thereon and shall be in such form as -14-
may be approved from time to time by the Board of Directors. The corporate seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced. Section 6.3. Waiver of Notice of Meetings of Stockholders, Directors and Committees. Whenever notice is required to be given by law or under any provision of the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the stockholders, directors or members of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws. Section 6.4. Indemnification of Directors, Officers and Employees. 1. Indemnification -- General. (a) Except as provided in Section 6.4(3), the Corporation shall indemnify the Indemnitees to the full extent permitted by Delaware law. (b) For the purposes of this Section 6.4, the term "Indemnitee" shall mean any person made or threatened to be made a party to any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact that such person or such person's testator or intestate is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation or serves or served at the request of the Corporation any other enterprise as a director, officer or employee. (c) For purposes of this Section 6.4, the term "Corporation" shall include any predecessor of the Corporation and any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed by the Corporation in a consolidation or merger; the term "other enterprise" shall include any corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or employee benefit plan; service "at the request of the Corporation" shall include service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to be an Expense; and action by a person with respect to an employee benefit plan which such person reasonably believes to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of such plan shall be deemed to be action not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation. -15-
2. Expenses. (a) Expenses reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in defending any such action, suit or proceeding, as described in Section 6.4(1)(b), shall be paid or reimbursed by the Corporation promptly upon receipt by it of an undertaking of Indemnitee to repay such expenses if it shall ultimately be determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation. (b) For the purposes of this Section 6.4, the term "Expenses" shall include all reasonable out of pocket fees, costs and expenses, including without limitation, attorneys' fees, retainers, court costs, transcript costs, fees of experts, witness fees, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees, and all other disbursements or expenses of the types customarily incurred in connection with defending, preparing to defend, or investigating an action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative but shall exclude the costs of acquiring and maintaining an appeal or supersedeas bond or similar instrument. For the avoidance of doubt, "Expenses" shall not include (i) any amounts incurred in an action, suit or proceeding in which Indemnitee is a plaintiff and (ii) any amounts incurred in connection with any non-compulsory counterclaim brought by the Indemnitee. 3. Limitations. The Corporation shall not indemnify Indemnitee or advance Indemnitee's Expenses if the action, suit or proceeding alleges (1) claims under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or (2) violations of Federal or state insider trading laws, unless, in the case of this clause (2), Indemnitee has been successful on the merits or settled the case with the written consent of the Corporation, in which case the Corporation shall indemnify and reimburse Indemnitee. 4. Standard of Conduct. No claim for indemnification shall be paid by the Corporation unless the Corporation has determined that Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the Corporation and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful. Unless ordered by a court, such determinations shall be made by (1) a majority vote of the directors who are not parties to the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification are sought, even though less than a quorum, or (2) by a committee of such directors designated by a majority vote of directors, even though less than a quorum, or (3) if there are no such directors, or if such directors direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (4) by stockholders. 5. Period of Indemnity. No claim for indemnification or the reimbursement of Expenses shall be made by Indemnitee or paid by the Corporation unless the Indemnitee gives notice of such claim for indemnification within one year after the Indemnitee received notice of the claim, action, suit or proceeding. -16-
6. Confidentiality. Except as required by law or as otherwise becomes public through no action by the Indemnitee or as necessary to assert Indemnitee's rights under this Section 6.4, Indemnitee will keep confidential any information that arises in connection with this Section 6.4, including but not limited to, claims for indemnification or reimbursement of Expenses, amounts paid or payable under this Section 6.4 and any communications between the parties. 7. Subrogation. In the event of payment under this Section 6.4, the Corporation shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee (under any insurance policy or otherwise), who shall execute all papers required and shall do everything necessary to secure such rights, including the execution of such documents necessary to enable the Corporation to effectively bring suit to enforce such rights. 8. Notice by Indemnitee. Indemnitee shall promptly notify the Corporation in writing upon being served with any summons, citation, subpoena, complaint, indictment, information or other document relating to any matter which may be subject to indemnification or reimbursement of Expenses covered by this Section 6.4. As a condition to indemnification or reimbursement of expenses, any demand for payment by Indemnitee hereunder shall be in writing and shall provide an accounting of the amounts to be paid by Corporation (which shall include detailed invoices and other relevant documentation). 9. Venue. Any action, suit or proceeding regarding indemnification or advancement or reimbursement of Expenses arising out of the by-laws or otherwise shall only be brought and heard in Delaware Court of Chancery. 10. Amendment. No amendment of this Section 6.4 shall impair the rights of any Indemnitee arising at any time with respect to events occurring prior to such amendment. Section 6.5. Interested Directors; Quorum. No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or her or their votes are counted for such purpose, if: (1) the material facts as to his or her relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board or the committee, and the Board or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (2) the material facts as to his or her relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is -17-
specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or (3) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board, a committee thereof or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction. Section 6.6. Form of Records. Any records maintained by the Corporation in the regular course of its business, including its stock ledger, books of account and minute books, may be kept on, or be in the form of, punch cards, magnetic tape, photographs, microphotographs or any other information storage device, provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible form within a reasonable time. The Corporation shall so convert any records so kept upon the request of any person entitled to inspect the same. Section 6.7. Dividends. Subject to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, the Board of Directors may, out of funds legally available therefor at any regular or special meeting, declare dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation as and when they deem expedient. Before declaring any dividend, the Board may cause to be set apart out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends, such sum or sums as the directors from time to time in their discretion deem proper for working capital or as a reserve fund to meet contingencies or for equalizing dividends or for such other purposes as the directors shall deem conducive to the interests of the Corporation. Section 6.8. Amendment of By-Laws. These by-laws may be amended or repealed, and new by-laws adopted, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors, but the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote may adopt additional by-laws and may amend or repeal any by-law whether or not adopted by them. -18-


