FILE:AIG/AIG-8K-20081112211247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
On November 12, 2008, the Board of Directors of American International Group, Inc. ("AIG") elected Dennis D. Dammerman a Director of AIG. Mr. Dammerman has been named to the Compensation and Management Resources Committee and the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of AIG.
Mr. Dammerman is currently Chairman of the Board of Directors of Discover Financial Services, Lead Director of Capmark Financial Group Inc. and a Director of BlackRock, Inc. He retired in 2005 as GE Vice Chairman of the Board and Executive Officer, and a member of the Corporate Executive Office.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Dammerman's election is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEW YORK, November 12, 2008  The Board of Directors of American International Group, Inc. (AIG) has elected Dennis D. Dammerman a Director.
     Mr. Dammerman is currently Chairman of the Board of Directors of Discover Financial Services, Lead Director of Capmark Financial Group Inc. and a Director of BlackRock, Inc. He retired in 2005 as GE Vice Chairman of the Board and Executive Officer, and a member of the Corporate Executive Office.
     Mr. Dammerman's retirement followed a 38-year career at GE. He had served on the GE Board of Directors since 1994, as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of GE Capital Services since 1998, and as a Director of GE Capital Services for 16 years. He joined General Electric in 1967 in the financial management program in GE Appliances. He held a succession of financial management and business leadership positions before being named Chief Financial Officer of GE in 1984.
     In 1994, Mr. Dammerman was named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Kidder, Peabody Group, Inc., retaining his position as GE Chief Financial Officer. He returned full time to his position as Chief Financial Officer of GE in 1995 when Kidder Peabody was sold to PaineWebber.
     "Dennis Dammerman is a distinguished and respected executive who brings to the AIG Board a singular record of experience in financial management and financial services," said Edward J. Liddy, AIG Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "I am delighted that he has agreed to join the Board of AIG at this crucial time, and I look forward to the benefit of his wise counsel."
     Mr. Dammerman graduated from the University of Dubuque and is currently a Trustee of Skidmore College and the New York Racing Association.
     American International Group, Inc. (AIG), a world leader in insurance and financial services, is the leading international insurance organization with operations in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIG companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through the most extensive worldwide property-casualty and life insurance networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading providers of retirement services, financial services and asset management around the world. AIG's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the stock exchanges in Ireland and Tokyo.


