FILE:AIG/AIG-8K-20090817142342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On August 16, 2009, American International Group, Inc. (AIG) entered into an agreement with Robert H. Benmosche establishing his compensation as President and Chief Executive Officer of AIG.
     Under the agreement, Mr. Benmosche will receive an annual salary of $7 million, consisting of $3 million in cash and $4 million in fully-vested common stock of AIG. The after-tax shares granted to Mr. Benmosche will not be transferable for a period of five years except as AIG's Compensation and Management Resources Committee may approve in the case of death or disability.
     In addition, Mr. Benmosche will be eligible to receive a performance-based, long-term incentive award of up to $3.5 million each year (prorated for 2009) in the form of stock or phantom stock units in AIG. The amount and form will be determined in the discretion of the Compensation and Management Resources Committee based on its evaluation of Mr. Benmosche's performance and will be subject to vesting, transfer, and payout restrictions established by applicable Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) regulations. Mr. Benmosche will not be entitled to any severance on termination of his employment for any reason.
     The Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation has expressed approval in principle regarding the structure and amount of Mr. Benmosche's compensation arrangements. The agreement between AIG and Mr. Benmosche has been submitted for review and approval as part of the process required by applicable TARP regulations.
     A copy of the agreement between AIG and Mr. Benmosche is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Search Committee (Search Committee) of the Board of Directors of AIG, which held meetings on June 2, June 10, June 29, July 14, July 15 and July 21, 2009, considered and recommended to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Board of Directors Mr. Benmosche for the positions of President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of AIG. During the months of June and July 2009, the members of the Search Committee and its advisors also met separately and in groups and in person and by telephone with Mr. Benmosche and other Chief Executive Officer candidates. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors met on August 3, 2009 to discuss Mr. Benmosche's candidacy. The Board of Directors met on July 30 and August 3, 2009 to consider the election of Mr. Benmosche as President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of AIG and, on August 3, 2009, elected Mr. Benmosche to these positions. During this process, the Board, the Search Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee conducted a thorough review of Mr. Benmosche's qualifications as well as those of other potential candidates, and also discussed, among other things, issues relating to Mr. Benmosche's interests in MetLife, Inc. On August 16, 2009, the Board of Directors adopted the Related Party Guidelines with Respect to Robert Benmosche's Interests in MetLife, Inc. (the Guidelines). A copy of the Guidelines is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 10.1
Robert H. Benmosche
Dear Bob:
     I am pleased to confirm the terms of your employment with American International Group, Inc.
 
 
     We look forward to your leadership.
 
I agree with and accept the foregoing terms.

Exhibit 99.1
          The American International Group, Inc. (AIG) Board of Directors, including through the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Search Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (collectively, the Board), has considered the potential conflicts of interest that might arise from the ownership of equity interests by Robert H. Benmosche, AIG President and Chief Executive Officer, in MetLife, Inc. (MetLife), consisting of approximately 500,000 shares of MetLife common stock and 2.1 million options on MetLife common stock at varying exercise prices and the continuing retirement payments that he receives from MetLife.
          The Board has reviewed the nature of Mr. Benmosche's interests and concluded, in accordance with the AIG Director, Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, that Mr. Benmosche will be able to perform his duties as Chief Executive Officer of AIG objectively and effectively and that any potential conflict can be addressed by the implementation of the guidelines set forth below, which the Board has approved and which will ensure that Mr. Benmosche will not be inappropriately involved in any transaction with MetLife and which will address his role in any significant business decision involving MetLife.
          In considering the potential conflict issues and the procedures necessary to address them, the Board received the advice and assistance of its counsel, Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP (Simpson). Such counsel advised that the Board should follow a process that included reviewing complete information concerning Mr. Benmosche's financial relationship with MetLife and considering all aspects of his relationship to MetLife, including the likelihood of decisions as CEO affecting the value and financial viability of MetLife and the relationship of his compensation and incentives at AIG to the value of his MetLife interests. Such counsel advised that the Board should determine, in accordance with the AIG Director, Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, that Mr. Benmosche's financial relationship with MetLife will not make it difficult for him to perform his duties objectively and effectively. Such counsel also advised that the Board should determine that Mr. Benmosche does not have confidentiality or other obligations to MetLife that would be violated by his service as AIG's CEO or impair his ability to function effectively. The process followed by the Board in reaching its decision reflects consideration of and is consistent with that advice. Simpson and AIG's counsel, Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, also advised as to the steps the Board should take to ensure that Mr. Benmosche is not inappropriately involved in any transaction between AIG and MetLife or any significant business decision involving MetLife. The guidelines set forth below reflect consideration of and are consistent with the advice of such counsel.
          The Board, assisted by the professional search firm the Board employed to identify CEO candidates, took the following steps in reaching its conclusion. It reviewed Mr. Benmosche's financial relationship with MetLife and considered all aspects of his relationship to MetLife, including the likelihood that decisions by the AIG CEO could affect the value and
 
2
financial viability of MetLife and the relationship of Mr. Benmosche's compensation and incentives at AIG to the value of his MetLife interests.
          The Board also was advised that Mr. Benmosche does not have confidentiality or other obligations to MetLife that would be violated by his service as AIG's CEO or impair his ability to function effectively.
          The Board recognizes that it is highly beneficial for any AIG CEO to have experience in the insurance and/or financial services industries. Many candidates for CEO who have such experience will have worked for an AIG competitor and it would not be unusual for any such candidate to have significant equity holdings in (and retirement payments due from) an AIG competitor. Therefore, AIG would likely face a similar issue concerning potential conflicts with many qualified candidates and the guidelines put in place by the Board would be necessary for many candidates.
          The Board determined after discussions with Mr. Benmosche that it would not be possible for AIG to replace the economic value of Mr. Benmosche's MetLife interests with cash or interests in AIG because under the Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) compensation regulations, certain "make whole" payments of that type are not permitted and because the dollar value of what AIG would have to provide to Mr. Benmosche would not be in the best interests of AIG's stakeholders and would be too great in light of the U.S. taxpayers' assistance to AIG. Given current market conditions, Mr. Benmosche also would likely be unable to sell or to realize appropriate value for certain of his interests, which include out-of-the-money options.
          The executive search firm with whom the Board worked to identify candidates did extensive research on Mr. Benmosche's background and business history. The Board interviewed Mr. Benmosche at length and conducted additional due diligence on his business history. Based on that work, the Board concluded that Mr. Benmosche has a long-demonstrated record of success and would not accept the AIG CEO position unless he was committed to acting in the best interests of AIG at all times. The Board also concluded that Mr. Benmosche will have a strong reputational reason for making decisions in the best interests of AIG, in that his success or failure at AIG will be a matter of great public interest.
          Further, the compensation structure for Mr. Benmosche that has been proposed to the Special Master for TARP Compensation provides Mr. Benmosche a strong financial incentive to act in AIG's best interests. If such compensation is approved, Mr. Benmosche will receive annually $3 million in cash, $4 million in AIG common stock as annual compensation and a long-term compensation package including up to $3.5 million in AIG common stock, which long-term compensation award will be based on performance and in the discretion of the Board's Compensation and Management Resources Committee. Thus, a majority of Mr. Benmosche's compensation will be in the form of equity in AIG, with a significant part of that equity component payable only at the discretion of the Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the AIG Board. Those financial interests and the amount of value Mr. Benmosche will have at risk based on the Board's view of his performance are strong incentives that align his interests with those of AIG. If Mr. Benmosche were to act in a manner other than in AIG's best interests, his financial interests would suffer, he could be fired and he might not receive any of that discretionary payment.
 
3
          After considering Mr. Benmosche's relationship with MetLife, as described above, the Board concluded that Mr. Benmosche's actions as AIG's CEO will have a more direct effect on AIG than on any of its individual competitors. Given the limited ability of the AIG CEO to directly affect the stock in any individual competitor, including MetLife, in any realistic scenario Mr. Benmosche's financial incentives will be aligned with those of AIG's stakeholders.
          The Board has also determined that the guidelines adopted herein will ensure that Mr. Benmosche plays no inappropriate role in any AIG transaction or significant business decision involving MetLife. The Board has charged the other members of senior management with the responsibility to report directly to the Board any transaction or significant business decision that could present a potential real or apparent conflict of interest so that the Board can determine if that transaction or business decision should be subject to these guidelines.
          Based on all of the foregoing, as discussed more fully at the Board meetings (including Committee meetings), the Board has concluded that Mr. Benmosche can execute his duties as AIG CEO objectively and effectively, and that the guidelines adopted are necessary and sufficient to address any potential conflict of interest arising from Mr. Benmosche's financial relationship with MetLife.
 
4
 
5


