FILE:AIG/AIG-8K-20101104215922.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries
     This Amendment No. 1 is being filed to amend and restate in its entirety this Form 8-K in order to correct certain typographical errors in the original filing dated November 4, 2010. This Amendment No. 1 includes the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements in their entirety.
AIA Initial Public Offering
     On October 29, 2010, American International Group, Inc. (AIG) completed an initial public offering of 8.08 billion ordinary shares of AIA Group Limited (AIA) for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $20.51 billion. Upon completion of the initial public offering, AIG owned approximately 33 percent of AIA's outstanding shares. Accordingly in the fourth quarter of 2010, AIG will deconsolidate AIA. Under the terms of an agreement with the underwriters, AIG is precluded from selling any of its remaining shares of AIA until October 18, 2011 and more than half of its remaining shares of AIA until April 18, 2012. Based on AIG's significant continuing involvement through its equity ownership, AIA is not being presented as a discontinued operation in the Consolidated Financial Statements at September 30, 2010. At October 29, 2010, the fair value of AIG's retained interest in AIA was approximately $11.8 billion.
ALICO Sale
     Upon the November 1, 2010 closing date, as consideration for the sale of American Life Insurance Company (ALICO) and Delaware American Life Insurance Company, ALICO Holdings LLC (ALICO Holdings) received total consideration of approximately $16.2 billion, comprising net cash consideration of $7.2 billion (which included an upward purchase price adjustment of approximately $400 million pursuant to the terms of the ALICO stock purchase agreement), 78,239,712 shares of MetLife, Inc. (MetLife) common stock, 6,857,000 shares of newly issued MetLife participating preferred stock convertible into 68,570,000 shares of MetLife common stock upon the approval of MetLife shareholders, and 40,000,000 equity units of MetLife with an aggregate stated value of $3.0 billion. AIG intends to monetize these MetLife securities over time, subject to market conditions, following the lapse of agreed-upon minimum holding periods.
     Prior to conversion into MetLife common stock, the MetLife participating preferred stock will be entitled to dividends equivalent, on an as-converted basis, to those that may be declared from time to time on MetLife common stock.
     Each of the equity units of MetLife has an initial stated amount of $75 and consists of an ownership interest in three series of senior debt securities of MetLife and three stock purchase contracts with a weighted average life of approximately three years. The stock purchase contracts obligate the holder of an equity unit to purchase, and obligate MetLife to sell, a number of shares of MetLife common stock that will be determined based on the market price of MetLife common stock at the scheduled settlement dates under the stock purchase contracts (a minimum of 67,764,000 shares and a maximum of 84,696,000 shares in the aggregate for all equity units, subject to anti-dilution adjustments). The equity units provide for the remarketing of the senior debt securities to fund the purchase price of the MetLife common stock. They also entitle the holder to receive interest payments on the senior debt securities and deferrable contract payments at a combined rate equal to 5% of their stated amount. The equity units have been placed in escrow as collateral to secure payments, if any, in respect of indemnity obligations owed by ALICO Holdings to MetLife under the ALICO stock purchase agreement and other transaction agreements. The escrow collateral will be released to ALICO Holdings over a 30 month period, to the extent not used to make indemnity payments or to secure pending indemnity claims submitted by MetLife.
2
 
American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are attached as Exhibit 99.1.
(d) Exhibits.
3
 
American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
4

Exhibit 99.1
American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries
June 30, 2010
Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited)
 
See Note 3 to the Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
5
 
American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries
Six Months Ended June 30, 2010
Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited)
 
See Note 4 to the Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
6
 
American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries
Year Ended December 31, 2009
Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Loss (Unaudited)
 
See Note 4 to the Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
7
 
American International Group, Inc., and Subsidiaries
Note 1  Basis of Presentation
     The unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss) for the year ended December 31, 2009 and the six-month period ended June 30, 2010 give effect to the initial public offering of AIA Group Limited (AIA) and sale of American Life Insurance Company (ALICO) as if they had occurred on January 1, 2009. The unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at June 30, 2010 gives effect to the dispositions as if they had occurred on June 30, 2010. The details of these transactions are described in Item 2.01 of this Current Report.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared from available information and management estimates in accordance with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission and do not purport to be indicative of the financial condition or results of operations of AIG as of such date or for such periods, nor are they necessarily indicative of future results. However, the pro forma adjustments reflected in the accompanying unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information reflect estimates and assumptions that AIG believes to be reasonable.
Note 2  Use of Net Cash Proceeds
     Under the limited liability company agreements of AIA Aurora LLC, a special purpose vehicle formed by AIG to hold AIA (AIA Aurora), and ALICO Holdings LLC, a special purpose vehicle formed by AIG to hold ALICO (ALICO Holdings), net cash proceeds from the initial public offering (IPO) of AIA and from the sale of ALICO would be distributed to the members of AIA Aurora and ALICO Holdings, respectively, with distributions made first to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) in its capacity as holder of the preferred interests in AIA Aurora and ALICO Holdings.
     However, under AIG's Agreement in Principle to recapitalize AIG (the Recapitalization) with the FRBNY, the United States Department of the Treasury and the AIG Credit Facility Trust, net cash proceeds from the IPO of AIA and from the sale of ALICO will instead be placed into escrow. Upon the closing of the Recapitalization, net cash proceeds from the AIA IPO and from the sale of ALICO will first be loaned to AIG and used to repay amounts owed under the FRBNY credit facility (FRBNY Credit Facility) provided under the Credit Agreement, dated as of September 22, 2008, between AIG and the FRBNY. Any amount of the net cash proceeds remaining after repayment of the FRBNY Credit Facility would then be distributed to the FRBNY to reduce the liquidation preference of the FRBNY's preferred interests in AIA Aurora and ALICO Holdings as described above. AIG holds the common interests in AIA Aurora and ALICO Holdings and will generally receive distributions only after the preferred interests have received all required distributions.
     If the Recapitalization transactions are not completed, it is expected that the escrow arrangement would terminate and that net cash proceeds would be distributed as originally contemplated by the limited liability company agreements of AIA Aurora and ALICO Holdings. In that case, it is expected that, of the approximately $20.2 billion of net cash proceeds from the IPO of AIA, approximately $16 billion plus accrued, but unpaid, preferred returns would be distributed to the FRBNY as holder of the preferred interests in AIA Aurora, with the balance distributed to AIG as holder of the common interests and used to repay amounts owing under the FRBNY Credit Facility; and that $7.2 billion in net cash proceeds from the sale of ALICO would be distributed to the FRBNY as holder of the preferred interests in ALICO Holdings.
     These pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements do not give effect to the provisions of the Recapitalization Agreement in Principle, as these transactions are subject to negotiation and execution of definitive agreements.
Note 3  Unaudited Pro Forma AIA and ALICO Adjustments to Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
8
 
Note 4  Unaudited Pro forma AIA and ALICO Adjustments to Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss)
9


