FILE:AIG/AIG-8K-20100802070005.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
     As of March 7, 2010, American International Group, Inc. ("AIG") entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the "Agreement") with ALICO Holdings LLC ("ALICO Holdings"), a special purpose vehicle formed by AIG and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and MetLife, Inc. ("MetLife"), pursuant to which MetLife agreed to acquire American Life Insurance Company ("ALICO"), a wholly owned subsidiary of ALICO Holdings, and Delaware American Life Insurance Company ("DelAm"), a wholly owned subsidiary of AIG, for approximately $15.5 billion in cash and equity securities of MetLife. On August 2, 2010, MetLife filed a prospectus supplement and filed a current report on Form 8-K (the "MetLife 8-K" and, together with the MetLife prospectus supplement, the "MetLife Disclosure") in connection with its public offering of MetLife securities.
     The MetLife Disclosure included certain financial statements and other information (the "ALICO Data") relating to ALICO and DelAm as of and for the year ended November 30, 2009 and as of May 31, 2010 and for the six months ended May 31, 2010 and May 31, 2009. The ALICO Data is included as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to the MetLife 8-K and is filed as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and is hereby incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference. An excerpt from Exhibit 99.3 to the MetLife 8-K, "Overview of the Alico Business", is reproduced below in its entirety.
The information in the box below has been prepared by MetLife.
Overview of the Alico Business
     Founded in 1921, ALICO is one of the largest and most diversified international life insurance companies in the world, providing consumers and businesses with products and services for life insurance, accident and health insurance, retirement and wealth management solutions. The Acquisition will include all of the Alico Business, including the business' distribution system, composed of agents, brokers and financial institutions; 12,500 employees across more than 50 countries; and 20 million customers worldwide. The Acquisition also will include the Alico Business' Global Benefits Network serving U.S. and foreign multinationals.
     For the six months ended May 31, 2010 and the year ended November 30, 2009, the Alico Business had total revenues of $7.0 billion and $14.1 billion, respectively, and net income of $694 million and $807 million, respectively. As of May 31, 2010 and November 30, 2009, the Alico Business had total assets of $109.6 billion and $113.0 billion, respectively, and stockholders' equity of $13.2 billion and $12.7 billion, respectively.
     International diversification is a key strength of the Alico Business. The Alico Business is a leader in many of the countries and markets in which it operates. The Alico Business' principal products, based on revenues for the year ended November 30, 2009 are: (i) traditional life insurance (35%); (ii) accident and health insurance (29%); (iii) fixed and variable annuities (23%); and (iv) group life insurance (13%). The Alico Business uses a multichannel distribution strategy driven by a captive agency force, brokers, bancassurance (a bank sales channel used to sell insurance products) and direct marketing. The Alico Business generated premium income and other consideration of $9.9 billion for the year ended November 30, 2009.
     The Alico Business' principal international markets, products and distribution methods are as follows:
Table of Contents
     The remaining 2% of revenues for the year ended November 30, 2009 related to ALICO's corporate segment, which includes home office operations in Delaware and operations of DelAm.
     The Alico Business has a comprehensive investment portfolio, which includes government bonds issued by Asian and European nations. In particular, as of November 30, 2009, the Alico Business held $11.5 billion in carrying value of debt issued by Japan, $1.3 billion in carrying value of debt issued by Greece, and an aggregate carrying value of $1.3 billion of debt issued by Portugal, Spain, Italy and Ireland.
Table of Contents
     The ALICO Data represents the combined financial statements of the AIG subsidiaries being sold to MetLife, in accordance with AIG's obligations under the Agreement to deliver to MetLife financial information for purposes of MetLife's financing activities. For this reason, and because the ALICO Data was prepared on a separate company basis, certain amounts may differ from the ALICO financial information included in AIG's consolidated financial statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The ALICO Data is included in this Current Report on Form 8-K only as a result of its public disclosure by MetLife in connection with MetLife's financing activities, which are solely the responsibility of MetLife.
     The "Overview of the Alico Business" reproduced above was prepared by MetLife using information provided to MetLife by AIG pursuant to the Agreement and is solely the responsibility of MetLife. None of AIG, ALICO Holdings, ALICO, DelAm, their respective affiliates or any of their directors, officers and employees has approved the "Overview of the Alico Business" or accepts responsibility for the "Overview of the Alico Business" for any purpose, including for purposes of any offering of securities by MetLife.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To the Shareholder and Management of American Life Insurance Company and the Transferred Subsidiaries:
 
In our opinion, the accompanying combined balance sheet and the related combined statements of income, of equity and of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of American Life Insurance Company, ALICO Services, Inc. and Delaware American Life Insurance Company and their subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company" or "American Life Insurance Company and the Transferred Subsidiaries") at November 30, 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
As described in Note 2 to the combined financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for impairments of fixed maturity securities as of March 1, 2009.
other-than-temporary
 
/s/  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 
New York, New York
May 14, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
(See Note 16 for details of related party balances)
 
 
 
 
 
 
(See Note 16 for details of income and expenses from related parties.)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These combined financial statements comprise the financial position and operating results of the managed insurance businesses of American Life Insurance Company ("ALICO"), ALICO Services, Inc. (formerly AIA Bermuda Services, Inc. or "ASI") and Delaware American Life Insurance Company ("DELAM"), along with their consolidated subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as "the "Company" or "American Life Insurance Company and the Transferred Subsidiaries"). The fiscal year of ALICO and ASI ends November 30 and the fiscal year of DELAM ends December 31. For purposes of these combined financial statements and accompanying notes, all financial data as of and for the year ended November 30 includes the financial position and operating results of DELAM as of and for its fiscal year ending December 31. The effects to these combined financial statements and accompanying notes by including DELAM using its fiscal year are not material. Unless otherwise indicated, all references in these combined financial statements and accompanying notes represent the financial position and results of operations as of and for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2009.
 
ALICO is a stock life insurance company domiciled in the State of Delaware, and is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of American International Group, Inc. ("AIG" or the "Parent"). It is licensed to write or maintain existing business in over 50 foreign countries through both branch operations and subsidiaries and writes all of its business outside of the United States of America, with diversified operations in Europe, Latin America, the Caribbean, the Middle East, and Japan. American Life Insurance Company markets traditional whole life, term, annuities, group life, credit life, and accident and health insurance to individuals and groups through a variety of distribution channels. DELAM is a stock life insurance company domiciled in the State of Delaware and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of AIG. It is licensed to write and reinsure life, annuity and accident and health business in the District of Columbia and 45 states in the United States of America. ASI is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of AIG, which provides services for a block of life insurance policies that are managed by the Company and included in these combined financial statements.
 
The combined financial statements also include certain international life insurance businesses that have been managed by ALICO but were previously legally owned by AIG or other AIG subsidiaries. These businesses were sold to or contributed to ALICO at fair value in 2009. These transactions have been accounted for as reorganizations of entities under common control and the combined financial statements presented have been adjusted so as to reflect the Company's financial position and results of operations as if the purchased and contributed businesses were always a part of the Company. Consolidated subsidiaries include those entities in which the Company has a controlling financial interest, either through a majority voting interest or as the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity.
(See Note 7 for further information on the Company's consolidated variable interest entities.)
 
Effective November 30, 2009, in connection with an AIG restructuring plan, AIG contributed all of the outstanding common shares of ALICO to a special purpose vehicle, ALICO Holdings, LLC ("ALICO Holdings") in exchange for all common and preferred membership interests in ALICO Holdings. Additionally, AIG transferred the preferred membership interests in ALICO Holdings to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York ("FRBNY") in satisfaction of $9 billion in outstanding obligations under the FRBNY's credit facility provided to AIG. AIG holds all outstanding common interests of ALICO Holdings.
 
On March 7, 2010 AIG and ALICO Holdings entered into a definitive agreement for the sale of the Company to MetLife, Inc. ("MetLife") for approximately $15.5 billion, including $6.8 billion in cash and the remainder in equity securities of MetLife, subject to closing adjustments. The cash portion of the proceeds from this sale will be used to reduce the liquidation preference of a portion of the preferred membership interests held by the FRBNY in ALICO Holdings. The transaction is expected to close in 2010 and is subject to certain regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
 
 
 
 
The Company's combined financial statements have been prepared on the basis of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
 
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of combined financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires Management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of certain assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
 
The Company considers its most critical accounting estimates to be those with respect to items considered by Management in:
 
 
These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the assumptions used, the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be materially affected.
 
Accounting Policies
 
 
  Premiums for traditional life insurance products, life contingent annuities, and accident and health products are recognized as revenues when due. Estimates for premiums due but not yet collected are accrued. For limited pay insurance contracts where premiums are due over a significantly shorter period than the period over which benefits are provided, any excess profit is deferred and recognized into operations in a constant relationship to insurance in-force or, for annuities, the amount of expected future benefit payments.
Premium income and other considerations:
 
Consideration for universal life and investment-type products is credited to policyholder account balances. Revenues for these contracts consist of policy charges for the cost of insurance, administration, and surrenders during the period. Policy charges collected with respect to future services are deferred and recognized in premium and other considerations in a manner similar to the amortization of deferred acquisition charges related to such products, which is described in section 2(.
j)
 
  Net investment income represents income primarily from the following sources:
Net investment income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Net realized capital gains and losses are determined by specific identification. Realized capital gains and losses are generated primarily from the following sources:
Net realized capital losses:
 
 
  Benefits for insurance contracts consist of benefits paid and changes in future policy benefit liabilities. Benefits for general account investment-type products, including separate accounts that do not qualify for separate account reporting under GAAP, primarily consist of interest credited to policy account balances and benefit payments made in excess of policy account balances except for certain contracts for which the fair value option was elected, for which benefits represent the entire change in fair value, including derivative gains and losses on related economic hedges.
Policyholder benefits and claims incurred:
 
  Policy acquisition costs represent those costs associated with acquiring new business. Policy acquisition costs that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of new business, including commissions, premium taxes, and other underwriting expenses are deferred and amortized in relation to premium, estimated gross profits or gross margins. Those policy acquisition costs that do not vary with or are not primarily related to the acquisition of new business and other costs associated with the servicing and administration of existing business are expensed as incurred. Other expenses include insurance and non-insurance related expenses related to corporate services such as computer and communications costs, corporate stewardship services and other company-wide services. Certain of these services are provided by the Company's parent, AIG, with the costs of these services either directly charged or allocated to the Company, using methods that Management believes are reasonable.
Policy acquisition and other expenses:
(See Note 16, Related Parties.)
 
  For periods prior to the AIG restructuring , the Company was included in the consolidated federal income tax return of AIG and subject to a tax-sharing arrangement that allocated tax on a separate return basis, but provided benefit for current utilization of losses and credits (a "benefits for loss" approach). Pursuant to the tax sharing agreement between the Company and AIG, the Company was paid for its tax attributes to the extent the Company could utilize such attributes on a separate return basis or such attributes could be utilized by other group members in the AIG consolidated life-nonlife U.S. income tax return.
(b) Income taxes:
(See Note 1)
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for the effects of temporary differences between the tax basis of an asset or liability and its reported amount in the combined financial statements and are measured using enacted tax rates in the applicable tax jurisdiction that are expected to apply to taxable income in the years the temporary differences are expected to reverse. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient
 
 
 
 
taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction. The Company assesses its ability to realize deferred tax assets considering all available evidence, including the earnings history, the timing, character, and amount of future earnings potential, the reversal of temporary differences, and the tax planning strategies available when recognizing deferred tax assets.
(See Note 17 herein for a further discussion of income taxes.)
 
The Company recognizes a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions by determining whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit is recorded in the financial statements. A tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. The Company may be required to change its provision for income taxes when the ultimate deductibility or taxability of certain items is challenged by taxing authorities. Additionally, future events, such as changes in tax laws or regulations or interpretations of such laws or regulations could have an impact on the provision for income taxes. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts reported in the combined financial statements in the year these changes occur.
 
Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized in income tax expense.
 
  Bonds, common stocks and preferred stocks are either classified as available for sale or as trading and are carried at fair value.
(c) Investments in fixed maturity and equity securities:
 
Securities held to meet long-term investment objectives are accounted for as available for sale, carried at fair value, and recorded on a trade-date basis. Realized gains and losses from available for sale investments in equity and fixed maturity securities are reflected in Net realized capital losses. Unrealized gains and losses are reported as a separate component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of deferred income taxes, in the Combined Statement of Equity.
 
Premiums and discounts arising from the purchase of bonds classified as available for sale are treated as yield adjustments over their estimated lives, until maturity or call date, as applicable.
 
Trading securities are held primarily to meet certain policyholder liabilities where investment performance is borne by the policyholder. Trading securities are recorded on a trade-date basis and carried at fair value. Realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments in trading securities are reported in Net investment income.
 
  Mortgage and other loans receivable includes mortgage loans on real estate, and collateral, commercial and guaranteed loans. Mortgage loans on real estate and collateral, commercial and guaranteed loans are carried at unpaid principal balances less credit allowances, adjusted for any unamortized discount or premium, and deferred fees or expenses. Interest income on such loans is accrued as earned, based on the loan's effective interest rate.
(d) Mortgage and other loans receivable  net:
 
Impairment of mortgage and other loans receivable is evaluated based on certain risk factors and recognized when collection of all amounts due under the contractual terms is not probable. This impairment is generally measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate subject to the fair value of underlying collateral. Interest income on such impaired loans is recognized as cash is received.
 
As of November 30, 2009, the Company held less than 1% of its mortgage and other loans receivable portfolio in residential loans and over 99% in commercial mortgages and loan pools. Valuation allowances of $10 million and $47 million were applied to residential mortgage and to commercial mortgage holdings, respectively, as of November 30, 2009.
 
: Policy loans are carried at unpaid principal amount. There is no allowance for policy loans because these loans serve to reduce the death benefit paid when the death claim is made and the balances are effectively collateralized by the cash surrender value of the policies.
(e) Policy loans
 
 
 
 
  Short-term investments consist of interest-bearing cash equivalents, time deposits, and investments with original maturities of one year or less, such as commercial paper.
(f) Short-term investments:
 
  Other invested assets consist primarily of investments in partially owned companies, investments in real estate, partnerships, hedge funds and freestanding derivatives.
(g) Other invested assets:
 
  Investments in partially owned companies are those made for strategic purposes and not solely for capital appreciation or for income generation. These investments are accounted for under the equity method. The carrying value of these investments was $45 million as of November 30, 2009 and the Company's share of the investees' net income was $9 million for the year ended November 30, 2009. Dividends received from unconsolidated entities were $0.5 million for the year ended November 30, 2009.
Investments in partially owned companies:
 
  With respect to hedge funds and limited partnerships in which the Company holds a 5% or greater interest or less than a 5% interest but in which the Company has more than a minor influence over the operations of the investee, the Company accounts for these investments using the equity method. The carrying value is its share of the net asset value of the funds or the partnerships. The equity income or loss is recorded in Net investment income. In applying the equity method of accounting, the Company consistently uses the most recently available financial information provided by the general partner or manager of each of these investments, which is one to three months prior to the end of the Company's reporting period.
Investments in hedge funds and partnerships:
 
Other investments of less than 5% in hedge funds and limited partnerships are reported at fair value. The change in fair value is recognized as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
 
  Interest rate, currency, equity and credit default swaps, inflation-linked swaps, equity futures, options, and forward transactions are accounted for as derivatives recorded on a trade-date basis and carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are reflected in income unless the derivative is designated as an effective cash flow or net investment hedge. Aggregate asset or liability positions are netted on the Combined Balance Sheet to the extent permitted by qualifying master netting arrangements in place with each respective counterparty. Cash collateral posted by the Company with counterparties in conjunction with these transactions is reported as a reduction of the corresponding net derivative liability. Cash collateral received by the Company in conjunction with these transactions is reported as a reduction of the corresponding net derivative asset.
Freestanding Derivatives:
 
(See Note 3 for additional disclosure regarding fair value methodologies.)
 
  Cash represents cash on hand and non-interest bearing demand deposits.
(h) Cash:
 
  Premiums due and other insurance balances receivable consist of premium balances, other receivables due from agents and brokers, reinsurance balances receivable and funds held reinsurance treaties. The allowance for doubtful accounts on premiums due and insurance balances receivable was $5 million as of November 30, 2009.
(i) Premiums due and other insurance balances
receivable-net:
 
Reinsurance balances receivable reflect the balances due from reinsurance and insurance companies under the terms of the Company's reinsurance agreements for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses, ceded unearned premiums and ceded future policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance contracts and benefits paid and unpaid. The allowance for doubtful accounts on reinsurance balances receivable was $4 million as of November 30, 2009.
 
  Policy acquisition costs represent those costs, including commissions, premium taxes, and other underwriting expenses that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of new business.
(j) Deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC):
 
Policy acquisition costs for participating life, traditional life and accident and health insurance products are generally deferred and amortized, with interest, over the premium paying period. Policy acquisition costs and policy issuance costs related to universal life and investment-type products are deferred and amortized, with interest, in
 
 
 
 
relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits to be realized over the estimated lives of the contracts. Estimated gross profits are composed of net interest income, net realized investment gains and losses, fees, surrender charges, expenses, and mortality and morbidity gains and losses. If estimated gross profits change significantly, DAC is recalculated using the new assumptions. Any resulting adjustment is included in income as an adjustment to DAC. DAC is grouped consistent with the manner in which the insurance contracts are acquired, serviced, and measured for profitability and is reviewed for recoverability based on the current and projected future profitability of the underlying insurance contracts.
 
The DAC for universal life and investment type products is also adjusted with respect to estimated gross profits as a result of changes in the net unrealized gains or losses on fixed maturity and equity securities available for sale. Because fixed maturity and equity securities available for sale are carried at aggregate fair value, an adjustment is made to DAC equal to the change in amortization that would have been recorded if such securities had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the proceeds reinvested at current yields. The change in this adjustment, net of tax, is included with the change in net unrealized gains/losses on fixed maturity and equity securities available for sale that is credited or charged directly to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
 
For contracts accounted for at fair value, policy acquisition costs are expensed as incurred and not deferred or amortized.
 
  Other assets primarily consist of company-occupied real estate and other fixed assets, goodwill, receivables from affiliates, prepaid expenses, including deposits, sales inducement assets, other deferred charges, and intangible assets other than goodwill.
(k) Other assets:
 
  The costs of buildings, leasehold improvements, and furniture and equipment are depreciated principally on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives (maximum of 40 years for buildings, the term of the related leases, not to exceed 7 years, for leasehold improvements and 10 years for furniture and equipment). Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to income as incurred; expenditures for betterment are capitalized and depreciated. The Company periodically assesses the carrying value of its real estate for purposes of determining any asset impairment.
Company occupied real estate and other fixed assets:
 
Real estate and other fixed assets also include capitalized software costs, which represent costs of obtaining, developing, or upgrading internal use software. Such costs are capitalized and amortized using the straight-line method over a period generally not exceeding five years. The cost basis of computer software was $207 million as of November 30, 2009. Accumulated amortization of capitalized software was $88 million as of November 30, 2009 and related amortization expense was $26 million for the year ended November 30, 2009.
 
Real estate, fixed assets, and other long-lived assets are assessed for impairment when certain impairment indicators exist. Accumulated depreciation on company-occupied real estate and other fixed assets was $325 million as of November 30, 2009, and related depreciation expense was $42 million for the year ended November 30, 2009. The Company incurred an impairment charge of $13 million on fixed assets for the year ended November 30, 2009.
 
  Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the acquired business. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. No goodwill impairments were recorded in 2009.
Goodwill:
 
  The Company offers sales inducements, which include enhanced crediting rates or bonus payments to contract holders (bonus interest) on certain annuity and investment contract products. Sales inducements provided to the contractholder are recognized as part of Policyholders' contract deposits in the Combined Balance Sheet. Amortization expense is recognized in Policyholder benefits and claims. Such amounts are deferred and amortized over the life of the contract using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC. To qualify for such accounting treatment, the bonus interest must be explicitly identified in the contract at inception, and the Company must demonstrate that such amounts are incremental to amounts the
Sales inducement assets (SIA):
 
 
 
 
Company credits on similar contracts without bonus interest, and are higher than the contracts' expected ongoing crediting rates for periods after the bonus period.
(See Note 6 herein for further discussion on sales inducements.)
 
  The liabilities for future policy benefits are established using assumptions described in Note 9 herein. Future policy benefits for life contracts include provisions for future dividends to participating policyholders, accrued in accordance with all applicable regulatory or contractual provisions. Accident and health insurance contracts include provisions for future dividends to participating policyholders, accrued in accordance with all applicable regulatory or contractual provisions.
(l) Future policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance contracts:
 
  The liabilities for policyholder contract deposits are established using assumptions described in Note 9 herein. Policyholder contract deposits also include the Company's liabilities for (a) certain guarantee benefits, accounted for as embedded derivatives at fair value, and (b) certain contracts that the Company has elected to account for at fair value.
(m) Policyholder contract deposits:
 
  Other policyholder funds include policy and contract claims, unearned revenue liabilities, premiums received in advance, policyholder dividends due and unpaid, and policyholder dividends left on deposit. The liability for policy and contract claims generally relates to incurred but not reported death and accident and health claims, as well as claims that have been reported but not yet settled. The liability for these claims is based on the Company's estimated ultimate cost of settling all claims. The Company derives estimates for the development of incurred but not reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of historical patterns of claims and claims development for each line of business. The methods used to determine these estimates are continually reviewed and resulting adjustments and differences between estimates and payments for claims are recognized in Policyholder benefits and claims incurred in the period in which the estimates are changed or payments are made.
(n) Other policyholder funds:
 
The unearned revenue liability relates to investment-type products and represents policy charges to be earned in future periods. The charges are deferred as unearned revenue and amortized using the product's estimated gross profits and margins, similar to DAC. Such amortization is recorded as investment-type product policy fees. The Company accounts for the prepayment of premiums on its individual life, group life, and health contracts as premium received in advance and applies the cash received to premiums when due.
 
  Other liabilities include amounts accrued for the resolution of non-insurance claims that have either been asserted or are deemed probable of assertion if, in the opinion of Management, it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Accounts payable to outside parties for services rendered or products purchased and balances payable to affiliates for goods or services are examples of these non-insurance claims recorded in Other liabilities. Additionally, reserves for general insurance losses and unearned premiums have been recorded in Other liabilities since they are immaterial and a non-core business to the Company.
(o) Other liabilities:
 
In many cases, it is not possible to determine whether a liability has been incurred or to estimate the ultimate or minimum amount of that liability until years after the contingency arises, in which case, no accrual is made until that time.
 
  Financial statement accounts, where partially expressed in foreign currencies, are translated into U.S. dollars. Functional currency assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars generally using rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date of each respective subsidiary and the related translation adjustments are recorded as a separate component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of any related taxes, in the Combined Statement of Equity. Functional currencies are generally the currencies of the local operating environment. The Combined Statement of Income accounts expressed in functional currencies are translated using average exchange rates during the period. The adjustments resulting from translation of financial statements of foreign entities operating in highly inflationary economies are recorded in Net realized capital gains
(p) Foreign currency:
 
 
 
 
and losses. Exchange gains and losses resulting from remeasuring foreign currency transactions into functional currencies are recorded in income as a component of Net realized capital gains and losses.
 
(q) Recent accounting standards:
 
Accounting Changes
 
The Company adopted the following accounting standards during 2009:
 
Amendment to Impairment Guidance
 
In January 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued an accounting standard that amends the impairment guidance on recognition of interest income and impairment on purchased beneficial interests and beneficial interests that continue to be held by a transferor in securitized financial assets to achieve more consistent determination of whether an impairment has occurred. The standard also retains and emphasizes the objective of an impairment assessment and the related disclosure requirements. The effects of the standard on the Company's combined financial condition and results of operations were not material.
other-than-temporary
other-than-temporary
 
Non-controlling interests in financial statements
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued an accounting standard that requires non-controlling (i.e., minority) interests in partially owned consolidated subsidiaries to be classified in the Balance Sheet as a separate component of equity, or in the mezzanine section of the Balance Sheet (between liabilities and equity) if such interests do not qualify for "permanent equity" classification. The new standard also specifies the accounting treatment for subsequent acquisitions and sales of non-controlling interests and how non-controlling interests should be presented in the Statement of Income (Loss). The non-controlling interests' share of subsidiary income (loss) should be reported as a part of net income (loss) with disclosure of the attribution of net income (loss) to the controlling and non-controlling interests on the face of the Statement of Income (Loss).
 
Subsequent Events
 
In May 2009, the FASB issued an accounting standard that requires disclosure of the date through which a company evaluated the need to disclose events that occurred subsequent to the balance sheet date and whether that date represents the date the financial statements were issued or were available to be issued. The Company adopted the new standard and considers events through the date at which AIG issues its financial statements. The adoption of the new standard did not affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
 
Recognition and Presentation of Impairments
Other-Than-Temporary
 
In April 2009, the FASB issued an accounting standard that requires a company to recognize the credit component of an impairment of a fixed maturity security in earnings and the non-credit component in accumulated other comprehensive income when the company does not intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that the company will not be required to sell the security prior to recovery. The standard also changed the threshold for determining when an impairment has occurred on a fixed maturity security with respect to intent and ability to hold until recovery. The standard does not change the recognition of impairment for equity securities. The standard requires additional disclosures in interim and annual reporting periods for fixed maturity and equity securities.
other-than-temporary
other-than-temporary
other-than-temporary
(See Note 4, Investments, for the expanded disclosures.)
 
The Company adopted the new standard on March 1, 2009 and recorded an after-tax cumulative effect adjustment as of March 1, 2009 consisting of an increase in Shareholder's net investment of $1 billion and a
 
 
 
 
decrease to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) of $1 billion, net of tax. The cumulative effect adjustment resulted in an increase of approximately $1.6 billion in the amortized cost of fixed maturity securities, which has the effect of significantly reducing the accretion of investment income over the remaining life of the underlying securities, beginning in the second quarter of 2009. The effect of the reduced investment income will be offset, in part, by a decrease in the amortization of DAC and SIA.
 
The new standard is expected to reduce the level of impairment charges recorded in earnings for fixed maturity securities due to the following required changes in the Company's accounting policy for impairments
other-than-temporary
other-than-temporary
(see Note 4 for a more detailed discussion of the changes in policy):
 
 
The following table presents the components of the change in equity as of March 1, 2009 due to the adoption of the new accounting standard for impairments:
other-than-temporary
 
 
Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly
 
In April 2009, the FASB issued an accounting standard that provides guidance for estimating the fair value of assets and liabilities when the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability have significantly decreased and for identifying circumstances that indicate a transaction is not orderly. The new standard also requires extensive additional fair value disclosures. The adoption of the new standard on March 1, 2009 did not have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
 
Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value
 
In August 2009, the FASB issued an accounting standard to clarify how the fair value measurement principles should be applied to measuring liabilities carried at fair value. The new standard explains how to prioritize market inputs in measuring liabilities at fair value and what adjustments to market inputs are appropriate for debt obligations that are restricted from being transferred to another obligor. The new standard was effective beginning September 1, 2009 for the Company. The adoption of the new standard did not have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
 
 
 
 
Investments in Certain Entities that Calculate Net Asset Value per Share (or Its Equivalent)
 
In September 2009, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that permits, as a practical expedient, a company to measure the fair value of an investment that is within the scope of the update on the basis of the net asset value per share of the investment (or its equivalent) if that value is calculated in accordance with fair value as defined by the FASB. The standard also requires enhanced disclosures. The update applies to investment companies that do not have readily determinable fair values such as certain hedge funds and private equity funds. The adoption of the accounting standard update did not have a material effect on the Company's combined financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
 
Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis
 
The Company measures at fair value on a recurring basis financial instruments in its trading and available for sale securities portfolios, derivative assets and liabilities, securities lending invested collateral, non-traded equity investments, certain private limited partnerships, and certain hedge funds included in Other invested assets, certain short-term investments, separate and variable account assets and certain policyholder contract deposits. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between willing, able and knowledgeable market participants at the measurement date.
 
The degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments generally correlates with the level of pricing observability. Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets generally have more pricing observability and less judgment is used in measuring fair value. Conversely, financial instruments traded in markets or that do not have quoted prices have less observability and are measured at fair value using valuation models or other pricing techniques that require more judgment. An active market is one in which transactions for the asset or liability being valued occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. An market is one in which there are few transactions, the prices are not current, price quotations vary substantially either over time or among market makers, or in which little information is released publicly for the asset or liability being valued. Pricing observability is affected by a number of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether the financial instrument is new to the market and not yet established, the characteristics specific to the transaction and general market conditions.
other-than-active
other-than-active
 
Fair Value Hierarchy
 
Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the Combined Balance Sheet are measured and classified in a hierarchy for disclosure purposes consisting of three "levels" based on the observability of inputs available in the marketplace as discussed below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Valuation Methodologies
 
The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis:
 
Incorporation of Credit Risk in Fair Value Measurements
 
A key component to the fair value measurement is the incorporation of nonperformance risk, including credit risk. The credit risk of the counterparty is incorporated into the calculation of the credit risk adjustment for fair value measurements in an asset position. Fair values for fixed maturity securities based on observable market prices for identical or similar instruments implicitly incorporate counterparty credit risk. The Company's own credit risk is incorporated into the calculation of the credit risk adjustment for fair value measurements in a liability position. The Company also uses the assumptions that a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability. This includes a market participant's assumptions about the risk of default and how that risk will be valued.
 
Generally, the current credit exposure of the Company's derivative contracts is limited to the net positive estimated fair value of derivative contracts at the reporting date after taking into consideration the existence of netting agreements and any collateral received. The Company manages its credit risk related to derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy counterparties.
over-the-counter
 
Fixed Maturity Securities  Trading and Available for Sale
 
The Company maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Whenever available, the Company obtains quoted prices in active markets for identical assets at the balance sheet date to measure at fair value fixed maturity securities in its trading and available for sale portfolios. Market price data generally is obtained from dealer markets.
 
The Company estimates the fair value of fixed maturity securities not traded in active markets by referring to traded securities with similar attributes, using dealer quotations, a matrix pricing methodology, discounted cash flow analyses internal valuation models. This methodology considers such factors as the issuer's industry, the security's rating and tenor, its coupon rate, its position in the capital structure of the issuer, yield curves, credit curves, prepayment rates and other relevant factors. For certain fixed maturity instruments (for example, private placements) that are not traded in active markets or that are subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity non-transferability, and such adjustments generally are based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, Management's best estimate is used.
and/or
and/or
 
 
 
 
Equity Securities Traded in Active Markets  Trading and Available for Sale
 
The Company maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Whenever available, the Company obtains quoted prices in active markets for identical assets at the balance sheet date to measure at fair value marketable equity securities in its trading and available for sale portfolios. Market price data generally is obtained from exchange or dealer markets.
 
Hedge Funds, Private Equity Funds and Other Investment Partnerships  Other Invested Assets
 
The Company initially estimates the fair value of investments in certain hedge funds, private equity funds and other investment partnerships by reference to the transaction price. Subsequently, the Company generally obtains the fair value of these investments from net asset value information provided by the general partner or manager of the investments, the financial statements of which are generally audited annually. The Company considers observable market data and performs diligence procedures in validating the appropriateness of using the net asset value as a fair value measurement.
 
Separate Account Assets
 
Separate account assets are composed primarily of registered and unregistered open-end mutual funds that generally trade daily and are measured at fair value in the manner discussed above for equity securities traded in active markets.
 
Freestanding Derivatives
 
Derivative assets and liabilities can be exchange-traded or traded (OTC). The Company generally values exchange-traded derivatives using quoted prices in active markets for identical derivatives at the balance sheet date.
over-the-counter
 
OTC derivatives are valued using market transactions and other market evidence whenever possible, including market-based inputs to models, model calibration to market clearing transactions, broker or dealer quotations or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. When models are used, the selection of a particular model to value an OTC derivative depends on the contractual terms of, and specific risks inherent in the instrument, as well as the availability of pricing information in the market. The Company generally uses similar models to value similar instruments. Valuation models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms, market prices and rates, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates and correlations of such inputs. For OTC derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs can generally be corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means, and model selection does not involve significant Management judgment.
 
Certain OTC derivatives trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, and the determination of fair value for these derivatives is inherently more difficult. When the Company does not have corroborating market evidence to support significant model inputs and cannot verify the model to market transactions, the transaction price is initially used as the best estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value such an instrument, the model is adjusted so the model value at inception equals the transaction price. Subsequent to initial recognition, the Company updates valuation inputs when corroborated by evidence such as similar market transactions, third party pricing services broker or dealer quotations, or other empirical market data. When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors such as liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations. Such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, Management's best estimate is used.
and/or
 
 
 
 
Embedded Derivatives
 
The Company purchases and issues financial instruments and products that contain embedded derivative instruments. When it is determined that (1) the embedded derivative possesses economic characteristics that are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract, and (2) a separate instrument with the same terms would qualify as a derivative instrument, the embedded derivative is bifurcated from the host for measurement purposes. The embedded derivative, which is reported with the host instrument in the Combined Balance Sheet, is carried at fair value with changes in fair value reported in net realized capital gains and losses or Policyholder benefits and claims incurred, as appropriate.
 
Policyholder Contract Deposits
 
Policyholder contract deposits accounted for at fair value are measured using an earnings approach by taking into consideration the following factors:
 
 
The change in fair value of these policyholder contract deposits, including any premiums or fees collected, is recorded as Policyholder benefits and claims incurred in the Combined Statement of Income. Policy fees and premiums collected are not recorded separately as revenue.
 
 
 
 
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
 
The following table presents information about assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and indicates the level of the fair value measurement based on the levels of the inputs used:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Changes in Level 3 recurring fair value measurements
 
The following table presents the changes during 2009 in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, and the realized and unrealized gains (losses) recorded in income during 2009 related to the Level 3 assets and liabilities that remained in the Combined Balance Sheet as of November 30, 2009:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Both observable and unobservable inputs may be used to determine the fair values of positions classified in Level 3 in the tables above. As a result, the unrealized gains (losses) on instruments held as of November 30, 2009 may include changes in fair value that were attributable to both observable (e.g. changes in market interest rates) and unobservable inputs (e.g. changes in unobservable long-dated volatilities).
 
The Company's policy is to transfer assets and liabilities into Level 3 when a significant input cannot be corroborated with market observable data. This may include: circumstances in which market activity has dramatically decreased and transparency to underlying inputs cannot be observed, current prices are not available, and substantial price variances in quotations among market participants exist.
 
In certain cases, the inputs used to measure the fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement. An assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment. In making the assessment, factors specific to the asset or liability are considered.
 
 
 
 
Investments in certain entities carried at fair value using net asset value per share:
 
The following table includes information related to investments in certain other invested assets, including private equity funds, hedge funds and other alternative investments that calculate net asset value per share (or its equivalent). For these investments, which are measured at fair value on a recurring or non-recurring basis at November 30, 2009, the net asset value per share is used as a practical expedient for fair value:
 
 
 
 
Private equity fund investments included above are not redeemable during the lives of the funds, and have expected remaining lives that extend in some cases to 10 years. Ten percent of such funds have expected remaining lives of less than three years and ninety percent between 7 and 10 years. Expected lives are based upon legal maturity, which can be extended at the general manager's discretion, typically in one year increments.
 
Global real estate fund investments included above are not redeemable during the lives of the funds, and have expected remaining lives that extend from 3 to 7 years.
 
Fair Value Measurements on a Non-Recurring Basis
 
The fair value of certain assets are measured on a non-recurring basis, generally quarterly, annually, or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. These assets include cost and equity-method investments; collateral securing foreclosed loans and real estate and other fixed assets; and goodwill. A variety of techniques are used to measure the fair value of these assets when appropriate, as described below:
 
 
 
 
 
companies, discounted expected future cash flows, appraisals, or, in the case of reporting units being considered for sale, third-party indications of fair value of the reporting unit, if available, to determine the amount of any impairment.
 
 
See Note 2 (d) and (k) herein for additional information about how various asset classes are tested for impairment.
 
Fair Value Option
 
Effective December 1, 2008, the Company elected to apply the fair value option to certain single premium variable life products in Japan classified within policyholder contract deposits in the Combined Balance Sheet. For the year ended November 30, 2009, the Company recorded a gain of $123 million in Policyholder benefits and claims incurred. The Company elected the fair value option for these liabilities to more closely align its accounting with the economics of its transactions. The fair value option election has allowed the Company to better match the inherent market risks associated with this business in an efficient and effective manner through the use of derivative instruments entered into with AIG. The accounting presentation for this business more closely reflects the underlying economics and the way the business is managed. In the third quarter of 2009, the Company unwound certain of these affiliated derivatives in conjunction with AIG's restructuring and divestiture plans. A substantial portion of the inherent market risks associated with this business remains economically hedged as of November 30, 2009.
(See Note 18, Subsequent Events.)
 
Fair Value Information about Financial Instruments Not Measured at Fair Value
 
Information regarding the estimation of fair value for financial instruments not carried at fair value (excluding insurance contracts and lease contracts) is discussed below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents the carrying value and estimated fair value of the Company's financial instruments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)  Securities Available for Sale
 
The following table presents the amortized cost or cost and fair value of the Company's available for sale securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the fair value and gross unrealized losses on available for sale securities, aggregated by major investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position:
 
 
The Company reviews and evaluates the investment performance of its portfolio. As of November 30, 2009, the Company held 3,177 and 85 individual fixed maturity and equity securities, respectively, that were in an unrealized loss position, of which 1,949 individual securities were in a continuous unrealized loss position for longer than twelve months.
 
The Company did not recognize in earnings the unrealized losses on these fixed maturity securities as of November 30, 2009, because Management neither intends to sell the securities nor does it believe that it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis. Furthermore, Management expects to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities. In performing this evaluation, Management considered the recovery periods for securities in previous periods of broad market declines. For fixed maturity securities with significant declines, Management performed fundamental credit analysis on a basis, which included consideration of credit enhancements, expected defaults on underlying collateral, review of relevant industry analyst reports and forecasts and other available market data.
security-by-security
 
 
 
 
Contractual Maturities
 
The following table presents the amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available for sale by contractual maturity:
 
 
Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because certain borrowers have the right to call or prepay certain obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
 
(b)  Net Investment Income
 
The following table presents the components of Net investment income:
 
 
 
 
Net unrealized gains included in the Combined Statement of Income from investment securities classified as trading securities in 2009 were $2 billion.
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents the components of net realized capital losses and the increase (decrease) in unrealized gains (losses) of available for sale investments:
 
 
The following table presents the gross realized gains and gross realized losses from sales of available for sale securities:
 
 
For the year ended November 30, 2009, the aggregate fair value of available for sale securities sold at a loss was $830 million, which resulted in a net realized capital loss of $81 million. The average period of time that securities sold at a loss during the year ended November 30, 2009 were trading continuously at a price below cost or amortized cost was approximately nine months.
 
 
 
 
Evaluating Investments for Impairments
Other-Than-Temporary
 
On March 1, 2009, the Company adopted prospectively a new accounting standard addressing the evaluation of fixed maturity securities for impairments. These requirements have significantly altered the Company's policies and procedures for determining impairment charges recognized through earnings. The new standard requires a company to recognize the credit component (a credit impairment) of an impairment of a fixed maturity security in earnings and the non-credit component in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) when the company does not intend to sell the security or it is more likely than not that the company will not be required to sell the security prior to recovery. The new standard also changes the threshold for determining when an impairment has occurred on a fixed maturity security with respect to intent and ability to hold the security until recovery and requires additional disclosures. A credit impairment, which is recognized in earnings when it occurs, is the difference between the amortized cost of the fixed maturity security and the estimated present value of cash flows expected to be collected (recovery value), as determined by Management. The difference between fair value and amortized cost that is not related to a credit impairment is recognized as a separate component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The Company refers to both credit impairments and impairments recognized as a result of intent to sell as "impairment charges." The impairment model for equity securities was not affected by the new standard.
other-than-temporary
other-than-temporary
other-than-temporary
 
Impairment Policy  Effective March 1, 2009 and Thereafter
 
Fixed Maturity Securities
 
If the Company intends to sell a fixed maturity security, or it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell a fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis and the fair value of the security is below amortized cost, an impairment has occurred and the amortized cost is written down to current fair value, with a corresponding charge to earnings.
other-than-temporary
 
For all other fixed maturity securities for which a credit impairment has occurred, the amortized cost is written down to the estimated recovery value using previous effective yields with a corresponding charge to earnings. Changes in fair value compared to recovery value, if any, are charged to unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of fixed maturity investments on which credit impairments were taken (a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)).
other-than-temporary
 
When assessing the intent to sell a fixed maturity security, or if it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell a fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, Management evaluates relevant facts and circumstances including, but not limited to, decisions to reposition the investment portfolio, sale of securities to meet cash flow needs and sales of securities to capitalize on favorable pricing.
 
The Company considers severe price declines and the duration of such price declines in its assessment of potential credit impairments. Modeled outputs are also modified for certain securities when it is determined that price declines are indicative of factors not comprehended by the cash flow models.
 
In periods subsequent to the recognition of an impairment charge for available for sale fixed maturity securities that were not foreign exchange related, the Company generally prospectively accretes into earnings the difference between the new amortized cost and the expected undiscounted recovery value over the remaining expected holding period of the security.
other-than-temporary
 
 
 
 
The following table presents a rollforward of the credit impairments recognized in earnings for available for sale fixed maturity securities: (a)
 
 
 
 
In assessing whether a credit impairment has occurred for a structured fixed maturity security, the Company performs evaluations of expected future cash flows. Certain critical assumptions are made with respect to the performance of the securities.
 
When estimating future cash flows for a structured fixed maturity security (e.g. RMBS, CMBS, CDO, ABS), Management considers historical performance of the underlying assets and available market information as well as bond-specific structural considerations, such as credit enhancement and priority of payment structure of the security. In addition, the process of estimating future cash flows includes, but is not limited to, the following critical inputs, which vary by asset class:
 
 
For corporate, municipal and sovereign fixed maturity securities determined to be credit impaired, Management considers the fair value as the recovery value when available information does not indicate that another value is more relevant or reliable. When Management identifies information that supports a recovery value other than the fair value, the determination of a recovery value considers scenarios specific to the issuer and the security, and may be based upon estimates of outcomes of corporate restructurings, political and macro economic factors, stability and financial strength of the issuer, the value of any secondary sources of repayment and the disposition of assets.
 
 
 
 
Impairment Policy  Prior to March 1, 2009
 
Fixed Maturity Securities
 
Prior to March 1, 2009, the Company assessed its ability to hold any fixed maturity available for sale security in an unrealized loss position to its recovery at each balance sheet date. The decision to sell any such fixed maturity security classified as available for sale reflected the judgment of Management that the security sold was unlikely to provide, on a relative value basis, as attractive a return in the future as alternative securities entailing comparable risks. With respect to distressed securities, the sale decision reflected Management's judgment that the risk-adjusted ultimate recovery was less than the value achievable on sale.
 
In that period, fixed maturity securities were evaluated for impairments with respect to valuation as well as credit.
other-than-temporary
 
After a fixed maturity security had been identified as impaired, the amount of such impairment was determined as the difference between fair value and amortized cost and the entire amount was recorded as a charge to earnings.
other-than-temporarily
 
Equity Securities
 
The impairment model for equity securities and other cost and equity method investments was not affected by the adoption of the new accounting standard related to impairments in March of 2009. The Company continues to evaluate its available for sale equity securities, equity method and cost method investments for impairment by considering such securities as candidates for impairment if they meet any of the following criteria:
other-than-temporary
other-than-temporary
 
 
The determination that an equity security is impaired requires the judgment of Management and consideration of the fundamental condition of the issuer, its near-term prospects and all the relevant facts and circumstances. The above criteria also consider circumstances of a rapid and severe market valuation decline in which Management could not reasonably assert that the impairment period would be temporary (severity losses).
other-than-temporarily
 
(d)  Other Invested Assets
 
The following table summarizes Other invested assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e)  Statutory Deposits
 
Total carrying values of cash and securities deposited by the Company and its insurance branches and subsidiaries under requirements of regulatory authorities were $472 million as of November 30, 2009.
 
 
In the ordinary course of business, the Company places reinsurance in order to limit the potential for losses arising from large risks, an excessive number of losses and to provide additional capacity for future growth. Life insurance risks are reinsured primarily under yearly renewable term (YRT) and coinsurance treaties. For YRT treaties, the reinsurers are paid a risk premium for the risks assumed. For coinsurance treaties, the reinsurers receive a proportionate share of the premiums less an allowance for commissions and expenses and are liable for a proportionate share of the benefit payments related to their respective risks. The Company also reinsures business to captive insurance companies of client companies when the business is written on the client company's employees or clients. Finally, the Company may cede or assume risk from other insurance companies when either party is acting as a fronting company.
 
For both ceded and assumed reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met in order for reinsurance accounting to apply. If risk transfer requirements are not met, the contract is accounted for as a deposit, resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include insurance risk according to the appropriate reinsurance risk transfer regulations. This would include a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. Reinsurance is placed with both affiliate and non-affiliate companies. See Note 16 for information related to reinsurance transactions with affiliates.
 
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the assumptions used for the underlying policy benefits and are presented as a component of reinsurance assets. Accident and health insurance risks are reinsured primarily under YRT treaties.
 
Reinsurance premiums for the year ended November 30, 2009 were as follows:
 
 
 
 
Life insurance in-force ceded to other insurance companies was $62 billion as of November 30, 2009.
 
 
 
 
Life insurance assumed represented 1% of gross life insurance in-force and premiums assumed represented 1.7% of gross premiums and other considerations for the year ended November 30, 2009.
 
Life insurance recoveries, which reduced death and other benefits, were $240 million for the year ended November 30, 2009, of which $52 million were related to affiliates.
 
The Company evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers and establishes limits per reinsurer through its Enterprise Risk Management process. The Company believes that no exposure to a single reinsurer represents an inappropriate concentration of risk, nor is its business substantially dependent upon any single reinsurer.
 
Reinsurance arrangements do not relieve the Company from its direct obligation to its insureds. Thus, a credit exposure exists with respect to life reinsurance ceded to the extent that any reinsurer fails to meet the obligations assumed under any reinsurance agreement. To mitigate some of this risk, the Company obtains letters of credit from certain reinsurers. As of November 30, 2009, letters of credit backing ceded reinsurance transactions was $82 million.
 
Supplemental information for gross loss and benefit reserves net of ceded reinsurance follows:
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents a rollforward of deferred policy acquisition costs for the year ended November 30, 2009:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The DAC amortization charged to income includes the increase or decrease of amortization for realized capital gains (losses). In 2009 the amortization expense decreased by $232 million due to such losses.
 
The Company offers sales inducements, which include enhanced crediting rates or bonus payments to contract holders (bonus interest) on certain annuity and investment contract products. Sales inducement assets included in the Other assets line of the Combined Balance Sheet are $141 million as of November 30, 2009. Amortization expense reported in Policyholder benefits and claims was $45 million for the year ended November 30, 2009.
 
The adoption of a new impairment accounting standard on March 1, 2009 resulted in a cumulative effect adjustment to the cost basis of affected securities and DAC and SIA charges related to impairments previously taken. There was no material effect to DAC and SIA assets on the Combined Balance Sheet. However, because Net realized capital gains and losses are included in the estimated gross profits used to amortize DAC for investment-oriented products, DAC amortization is expected to be lower in future periods.
other-than-temporary
other-than-temporary
 
As the Company operates in various global markets, the estimated gross profits used to amortize DAC and SIA are subject to differing market returns and interest rate environments in any single period. The combination of market returns and interest rates may lead to acceleration of amortization in some products and regions and simultaneous deceleration of amortization in other products and regions.
 
DAC and SIA for insurance-oriented, investment-oriented, and retirement services products are reviewed for recoverability, which involves estimating the future profitability of the current business. This review involves significant Management judgment. If actual future profitability is substantially lower than estimated, DAC and SIA may be subject to impairment charges and the Company's results of operations may be significantly affected in future periods. There was no impairment for the year ended November 30, 2009.
 
 
The accounting standard related to the consolidation of variable interest entities (VIEs) provides guidance for determining when to consolidate certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity that is at risk to allow the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support. This standard recognizes that consolidation based on majority voting interest should not apply to these variable interest entities. A VIE is consolidated by its primary beneficiary, which is the party or group of related parties that absorbs a majority of the expected losses of the VIE, receives the majority of the expected residual returns of the VIE, or both.
 
The Company enters into various arrangements with VIEs in the normal course of business and is involved with VIEs as a passive investor in debt securities (rated and unrated) and equity interests issued by VIEs and as a joint venture partner in an insurance operation.
 
The Company generally determines whether it is the primary beneficiary or a significant interest holder based on a qualitative assessment of the VIE. This includes a review of the VIE's capital structure, contractual relationships and terms, nature of the VIE's operations and purpose, nature of the VIE's interests issued, and the Company's and its related parties' interests in the entity that either create or absorb variability. Both the design of the VIE is evaluated and the related risks the entity was designed to expose the variable interest holders to in determining consolidation. As of November 30, 2009 there was no significant off-balance sheet exposure associated with VIEs.
 
The Company defines a variable interest as significant relative to the materiality of its interest in the VIE and calculates its maximum exposure to loss to be (i) the amount invested in the debt or equity of the VIE, (ii) the notional amount of VIE assets or liabilities where the Company has also provided credit protection to the VIE with the VIE as the referenced obligation, and (iii) other commitments and guarantees to the VIE. Other interest holders in VIEs in which the Company is the primary beneficiary and owner generally have recourse only to the assets and cash flows of the VIEs and do not have recourse to the Company.
 
 
 
 
Balance Sheet Classification
 
The Company's interest in the assets and liabilities of consolidated and unconsolidated VIEs were classified on the Combined Balance Sheet as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
The Company uses derivatives and other financial instruments as part of its financial risk management programs and as part of its investment operations. Derivatives are financial arrangements among two or more parties with returns linked to or "derived" from some underlying equity, debt, commodity or other asset, liability, or foreign exchange rate or other index, or the occurrence of a specified payment event. Derivative payments may be based on interest rates, exchange rates, prices of certain securities, commodities, or financial or commodity indices, or other variables. Derivatives, with the exception of bifurcated embedded derivatives, are reflected at fair value on the Combined Balance Sheet in "Other invested assets" and "Other liabilities." None of the derivatives has been designated as a hedge for accounting purposes. Bifurcated embedded derivatives are recorded with the host contract on the Combined Balance Sheet.
 
The following table presents the notional amounts and fair values of derivative instruments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents the effect of the Company's derivative instruments in the Combined Statement of Income:
 
 
 
 
 
The future policy benefits and policyholder contract deposits liabilities were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Long duration contract liabilities included in future policy benefits, as presented in the preceding table, result primarily from life products.
 
The liability for future life policies has been established based upon the following assumptions:
 
 
The liability for future accident and health policies has been established based on the following assumptions:
 
 
The liability for policyholder contract deposits, except for those accounted for at fair value, has been established based on the following assumptions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain products, including group life and group medical, credit life contracts, accident and health insurance contracts/riders attached to life policies and, to a limited extent, reinsurance agreements with other direct insurers are subject to experience adjustments. Ultimate premiums from these contracts are estimated and recognized as revenue, and the unearned portions of the premiums are recorded as liabilities. Experience adjustments vary according to the type of contract and the territory in which the policy is in force and subject to local regulatory guidance.
 
Information regarding the liabilities for unpaid claims and claims expenses relating to accident and health insurance, which is reported in Other policyholder funds, is as follows:
 
Liabilities for Unpaid Claims and Claim Expenses
 
 
 
Most of the Company's separate accounts are not legally insulated from general account creditors and, therefore, do not qualify for separate account reporting under GAAP. In such cases, the variable contracts are reported as general account contracts even though the policyholder bears the risks associated with the performance of the assets. The Company has a small amount of variable contracts that do qualify for separate account reporting. The Company also reports variable annuity and life contracts within the general account when the Company contractually guarantees to the contract holder (variable contracts with guarantees) either (a) total deposits made to the contract less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return (and in minor instances, no minimum returns) (Net Deposits Plus a Minimum Return), or (b) the highest contract value attained, typically on any anniversary date minus any subsequent withdrawals following the contract anniversary (Highest Contract Value Attained). These guarantees include benefits that are payable in the event of death, annuitization, or, in other instances, at specified dates during the accumulation period. Such benefits are referred to as guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB), guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB), and guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB). The Company also has a guaranteed minimum account value (GMAV) benefit in its U.K. Protected Recovery Fund product. The GMDB benefit option is the most widely offered benefit.
 
The assets supporting the variable portion of both traditional variable annuities and variable contracts with guarantees that do not qualify for separate account reporting are reported as trading account assets, and liabilities are included in the respective policyholder liability account of the general account. Net investment income and gains and losses on trading accounts for contracts that do not qualify for separate account reporting are reported in Net investment income and are principally offset by amounts reported in Policyholder benefits and claims incurred. Non-qualified separate account assets were $17.3 billion as of November 30, 2009.
 
 
 
 
The assets supporting the variable portion of both traditional variable annuities and variable contracts with guarantees that do qualify for separate account reporting are carried at fair value and reported as Separate account assets with an equivalent summary total reported as Separate account liabilities. Amounts assessed against the contract holders for mortality, administrative, and other services are included in revenue and changes in liabilities for minimum guarantees are included in Policyholder benefits and claims incurred. Separate account net investment income, net investment gains and losses, and the related liability changes are offset within the same line item in the Combined Statement of Income for those accounts that qualify for separate account reporting.
 
The majority of the Company's exposure on guarantees made to variable contract holders arises from GMDB. Details concerning the Company's GMDB exposures were as follows:
 
 
 
 
The following summarizes the GMDB liabilities for guarantees on variable contracts, as described in the preceding table, reflected in Future policy benefits:
 
 
The GMDB liability is determined at each period-end by estimating the expected value of death benefits in excess of the projected account balance and recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The Company regularly evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional liability balance, with a related charge or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.
 
The following assumptions and methodology were used to determine the GMDB liability as of November 30, 2009:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the Company's total long-term debt:
 
 
 
 
Related party loans and notes
 
As part of the termination and settlement of amounts due under the tax sharing agreement between ALICO and AIG, ALICO signed a demand note payable to AIG for amounts then due of $528 million. The note provides for interest at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 4%. The note is subject to adjustment of the principal balance based on the results of the 2009 consolidated AIG Federal tax filing. The note principal and interest is payable to AIG upon five days written notice provided that no notice shall be permitted prior to the payment and redemption of the FRBNY preferred interests in ALICO Holdings LLC and provided further that the entire principal and interest shall be due and payable on December 1, 2013.
90-day
 
ALICO has an outstanding demand note for $300 million payable to AIG Funding, Inc., a subsidiary of AIG. The note bears interest from March 30, 2009 through and including November 30, 2009 at the greater of LIBOR or 6.525%. From December 1, 2009 the interest rate will be at LIBOR plus 4% with accrued interest being added to the unpaid principal of the note. The note principal and interest is payable to AIG Funding, Inc. upon five days written notice provided that no notice shall be permitted prior to the payment and redemption of the FRBNY preferred interest in ALICO Holdings LLC and provided further that the entire principal and interest shall be due and payable on December 1, 2013.
90-day
90-day
 
On April 16, 2003, ALICO signed a promissory note for 15 billion Japanese Yen or approximately $174 million as of November 30, 2009, payable to AIG Funding, Inc., a subsidiary of AIG and due on April 16, 2013. The note bears interest at a fixed rate of 1.7125% payable in arrears on September first of each year and upon maturity.
 
On August 31, 2005, ALICO received a loan commitment of 2 billion Japanese Yen or approximately $23 million as of November 30, 2009 from American International Reinsurance Company Limited (AIRCO), a subsidiary of AIG. Outstanding loan amounts are payable in semi-annual installments on June 30 and December 31 of each year with final payment due on December 31, 2020. The loan is secured by real estate in Japan and bears interest at a fixed rate of 3%. The current value of the Japanese real estate collateralizing the loan is $38 million as of November 30, 2009. Borrowings of $17 million are currently outstanding as of November 30, 2009. The agreement terminates upon final payment of amounts due.
 
 
 
 
The following table presents contractual maturities of long-term debt:
 
Contractual maturities of long-term debt:
 
 
 
 
 
In the normal course of business, various commitments and contingent liabilities are entered into or apply to the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. In addition, the Company guarantees various obligations of certain subsidiaries.
 
Although the Company cannot currently quantify its ultimate liability for unresolved litigation and investigation matters, including those referred to below, it is possible that such liability could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or its results of operations or cash flows for an individual reporting period.
 
 
The Company, in common with the insurance and financial services industries in general, is subject to litigation, including claims for punitive damages, in the normal course of business. Litigation arising from claims settlement activities is generally considered in the establishment of the Company's Future policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance contracts. However, the potential for increasing jury awards and settlements makes it difficult to assess the ultimate outcome of such litigation.
Litigation Arising from Operations 
 
Argentina Insurance Class Action Suits
 
ALICO Compania de Seguros, S.A, the Company's Argentine subsidiary, along with the banks and credit companies selling the policies have been named as defendants in nine cases filed by various civil associations between February 21, 2007 and September 14, 2009. The suits allege that this subsidiary's credit life insurance policy fees were excessively expensive and therefore violated the Argentine Consumer's Protection Act. The plaintiffs in these cases generally seek reimbursement of a portion of the premiums charged for the last three years and in five instances, annulment of the existing policies. No specific amounts have been claimed. The cases are in various stages of litigation, although none has yet been decided by a court of law. No judgments have been awarded to any of the plaintiffs in these cases and the damages to be paid, if any, cannot be reliably estimated at this time.
 
United Kingdom Enhanced Fund Complaint
 
ALICO's United Kingdom branch suspended withdrawals from its Enhanced Fund linked to its Premier Access Bond product on September 15, 2008, and then announced closing of that fund as of December 14, 2008, resulting in a number of individual investor complaints to the United Kingdom Financial Ombudsman Service ('FOS'), an independent body set up by statute to informally review and settle complaints between consumers and businesses. The Company has provided information to the UK regulator, the Financial Services Authority and to the
 
 
 
 
FOS with regard to the investor complaints. No lawsuits have been filed to date against the United Kingdom Branch relating to the closure of the Enhanced Fund.
 
Italy Fund Redemption Suspension Complaints and Litigation
 
As a result of ongoing liquidity problems and suspension of withdrawals in several funds offered by ALICO's Italy branch, a number of investors in those funds have either commenced or threatened litigation against the Company. Studio Legale Trevisan and Associati, an Italian law firm representing 606 policyholders of three of the funds offered by ALICO's Italy branch, contacted the Company in July 2009, alleging that the Company's funds operated at variance to the published prospectus and that the prospectus risk disclosures were allegedly wrong, unclear and therefore, allegedly misleading. No lawsuit has been filed to date related to this claim. There are also four lawsuits against the Company in the early stages of litigation. Further, the former and current general managers of ALICO's Italy branch are named subjects of a plaintiff claim in Italy of alleged misrepresentation and deceitful conduct at the time the plaintiff allegedly wanted to divest his investments in Company funds.
 
 
The Company occupies leased space in many locations under various long-term leases and has entered into various leases covering the long-term use of data processing equipment.
 
Lease Commitments
 
The future minimum lease payments under operating leases were as follows:
 
 
Rent expense approximated $72 million for the year ended November 30, 2009.
 
Other Commitments
 
In the normal course of business, the Company enters into commitments to invest in limited partnerships, private equities, and mutual funds and to purchase and develop real estate. These commitments totaled $51 million as of November 30, 2009, $33 million of which were with affiliates. The majority of these commitments are due over the next three years.
 
 
Liability for Future policy benefits
 
Although the Company regularly reviews the adequacy of the established liability for Future policy benefits, there can be no assurance that the Company's ultimate liability for Future policy benefits will not develop adversely and materially exceed the Company's current liability for Future policy benefits. Legal expenses incurred in connection with any contingencies are expensed as incurred.
 
 
 
 
Japan Policyholder Protection Commission
 
Japan has established a Policyholder Protection Commission as a contingency to protect policyholders against the insolvency of life insurance companies in Japan through assessments to companies licensed to provide life insurance.
 
Potential IRS Withholding Claim
 
U.S. Internal Revenue Service Ruling ("IRS Ruling") provides that in certain cases the income portion of a distribution received by a resident of a foreign country from life insurance and annuity contracts issued by a foreign branch of a U.S. life insurance company is U.S. source income to the foreign country investor or policyholder. A U.S. life insurance company is required to withhold 30% of the income portion distributed to the foreign resident unless it falls under a permissible exception. Certain ALICO insurance or investment products  those with a cash value, savings or investment elements  when sold by foreign branches of ALICO are potentially encompassed by the IRS Ruling.
No. 2004-75
 
ALICO has not withheld taxes on payments by ALICO's branches for insurance or investment products sold to customers that may be encompassed by the IRS Ruling, based on its position that ALICO will not be subject to the IRS Ruling due to the "80/20" Rule. Under the "80/20" Rule, U.S. companies with foreign source income in excess of 80% are not subject to U.S. tax withholding obligations for payments they make which are classified as "interest."
(See Note 18, Subsequent Events.)
 
Total Contingent Liabilities
 
The Company had $69 million recorded in Other liabilities for these contingencies as of November 30, 2009, consisting of $32 million associated with the Japan Policyholder Protection Commission assessment and $37 million associated with the potential IRS withholding claim. The $32 million liability associated with the Japan Policyholder Protection Commission assessment includes a $0.3 million discount from applying a net present value factor of 0.9% and payment of the assessment is expected to be completed by 2011. There can be no assurance such contingent liability amounts will be sufficient in the future and increased expenses could result. (
See Note 18, Subsequent Events.)
 
 
The Company had guarantees outstanding of $47 million supporting real estate deposit returns and future rental payments. The majority of these guarantees expire in time periods longer than five years.
 
Effective July 1, 2009, the Company transferred the insurance business and the assets and liabilities held by its Taiwan Branch to an affiliate, American International Assurance Company (Bermuda) Ltd ("AIA (B)"), which had historically managed the business. As part of this business transfer, the Company and AIA (B) are jointly and severally liable for all debts of the Taiwan Branch for a period of two years from the closing date, i.e. until July 1, 2011. Should AIA (B) fail to meet the debt and policy obligations related to this transferred business, the Company is legally bound to meet those obligations. The Company believes the probability of this occurring to be remote since the assets associated with the transferred business adequately fund the liability obligations as determined by local regulations.
 
 
The Company files financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by domestic and foreign insurance regulatory authorities. The principal differences between statutory financial statements and financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP for domestic companies are that statutory financial statements do not reflect DAC, some bond portfolios may be carried at amortized cost,
 
 
 
 
investment impairments are determined in accordance with statutory accounting principles, assets and liabilities are presented net of reinsurance, policyholder liabilities are generally valued using more conservative assumptions and certain assets are non-admitted.
 
ALICO is domiciled and licensed in the State of Delaware, which under state insurance law has adopted certain prescribed practices that differ from those found in the National Association of Insurance Commissioner (NAIC) Statutory Accounting Principles. Specifically, ALICO reports its statutory insurance reserves in accordance with the requirements of each foreign jurisdiction in which it does business, has invested funds as permitted by the laws of each foreign jurisdiction, and is exempted under the Delaware insurance code from calculating the effects of the differences between these practices and those contained in the NAIC when calculating Risk-Based Capital. Since all of ALICO's business is conducted in foreign jurisdictions, if a regulatory action is taken or required to be taken, that action will solely reside with the State of Delaware. Such regulatory actions will not impact any U.S. policyholders or other states and their insolvency fund requirements.
Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual
 
Statutory surplus and net income for the Company, in accordance with U.S. statutory accounting practices as of December 31, 2009 were as follows:
 
 
 
 
As of December 31, 2009, statutory capital of the Company's insurance subsidiaries exceeded minimum company action level requirements.
 
Payments of dividends by the Company are subject to certain restrictions imposed by regulatory authorities. The Company may not distribute dividends to its shareholder in excess of 10 percent of the prior year's ending policyholders' surplus or the prior year's net gain from operations, whichever is greater, without prior approval of the Delaware Insurance Commissioner.
 
 
Included in the Company's Combined Statement of Income for the year ended November 30, 2009 was pre-tax share-based compensation expense of $16.3 million ($11.1 million after tax).
 
Employee Plans
 
As of November 30, 2009, the Company's employees had been granted awards under seven different share-based employee compensation plans of AIG.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although awards granted under all the plans described above other than the 1996 Plan, remained outstanding as of November 30, 2009, future grants of options, RSUs and performance RSUs can be made only under the 2007 Plan. Share option exercises and other share awards to participants were settled by issuing previously acquired shares held in AIG's treasury account through November 30, 2009. Effective December 1, 2009, AIG is settling its share-based awards by issuing AIG Common Stock. However, share awards made by SICO are settled by SICO.
 
Stock Options
 
AIG 1999 Stock Option Plan
 
The 1999 Plan was approved by the shareholders at the 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of AIG, with certain amendments approved at the 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of AIG. The 1999 Plan superseded the 1991 Employee Stock Option Plan (the 1991 Plan), although outstanding options granted under the 1991 Plan continue until exercise or expiration. Options granted under the 1999 Plan generally vest over four years (25% vesting per year) and expire 10 years from the date of grant. The 2007 Plan supersedes the 1999 Plan.
 
As of November 30, 2009, 1,370,916 AIG shares were reserved for issuance under the 1999 and 1991 Plans and no AIG shares are reserved for future grants under the 1999 Plan.
 
Stock Option Valuation
 
The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial lattice model to calculate the fair value of stock option grants. However, there were no options granted in 2009. Historically, expected volatility was estimated as the average of historical volatility (based on seven years of daily stock price changes) and the implied volatility of actively traded options on AIG shares. The interest rate was estimated using the interest curves of the US Treasury STRIP rates with terms from 3 months to 10 years. The expected term was estimated based on the average time to exercise derived from the output of the valuation model. The dividend yield was determined as of the grant date.
 
 
 
 
The following table provides a roll forward of stock option activity with respect to AIG's stock options granted to the Company's employees:
 
 
 
 
As of November 30, 2009, total unrecognized compensation cost (net of expected forfeitures) was $1.0 million with a blended weighted average period of 0.94 years. The cost of awards outstanding under these plans at November 30, 2009 is expected to be recognized over approximately 2 years. There were no options exercised in 2009 and the grant date fair value of options vesting was $1.8 million.
 
Other Share-Based Plans
 
AIG 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
 
AIG's 1996 Plan provides that eligible employees (those employed for at least one year) may receive privileges to purchase up to an aggregate of 500,000 shares of AIG common stock, at a price equal to 85 percent of the fair market value on the date of the grant of the purchase privilege. Purchase privileges are granted quarterly and are limited to the number of whole shares that can be purchased on an annual basis by an amount equal to the lesser of 10 percent of an employee's annual salary or $10,000.
 
2002 Stock Incentive Plan
 
The 2002 Plan was adopted at the 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of AIG and amended and restated by AIG's Board of Directors on September 18, 2002. Because the 2002 Plan has been superseded by the 2007 Plan, there were no shares reserved for issuance in connection with future awards as of November 30, 2009. The awards under the 2002 Plan vest on the third or fourth anniversary of the grant date
 
2007 Stock Incentive Plan
 
The 2007 Plan was adopted at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of AIG and amended and restated by AIG's Board of Directors on November 14, 2007. The total number of shares of common stock that may be issued under the Plan is 9,000,000. The 2007 Plan supersedes the 1999 Plan and the 2002 Plan. No RSUs were granted to the Company's employees under the 2007 Plan during 2009. Each RSU, performance RSU and deferred stock units ("DSU") awarded reduces the number of shares available for future grants by 2.9 shares. As of November 30, 2009
 
 
 
 
there were 7,555,345 shares reserved for future grants under the 2007 Plan. A significant majority of the time-vested RSUs granted in 2008 under the 2007 Plan vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
 
SICO Plans
 
The SICO Plans provide that shares of AIG common stock currently held by SICO are set aside for the benefit of the participant and distributed upon retirement. The SICO Board of Directors currently may permit an early payout of shares under certain circumstances. Prior to payout, the participant is not entitled to vote, dispose of, or receive dividends with respect to such shares, and shares are subject to forfeiture under certain conditions, including but not limited to the participant's termination of employment with AIG prior to normal retirement age.
 
Although none of the costs of the various benefits provided under the SICO Plans have been paid by AIG or the Company, the Company has recorded compensation expense for the deferred compensation amounts payable to the Company's employees by SICO reflecting amounts deemed contributed by SICO.
 
A significant portion of the awards under the SICO Plans vest the year after the participant reaches age 65, provided that the participant remains employed by AIG through age 65. The portion of the awards for which early payout is available vest on the applicable payout date.
 
AIG DCPPP
 
The AIG DCPPP provides share-based compensation to key the Company's employees, including senior executive officers. The awards under AIG DCPPP vest in three installments, with the final installment vesting in January 2012. As of November 30, 2009, RSU awards with respect to 7,570 shares remained outstanding relating to the Company's employees.
 
AIG Partners Plan
 
On June 26, 2006, AIG's Compensation Committee approved two grants under the AIG Partners Plan. The first grant had a performance period that ran from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2007. The second grant had a performance period that ran from January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2008. In December 2007, the Compensation Committee approved a grant with a performance period from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2009. The Compensation Committee approved the performance metrics for this grant in the first quarter of 2008. The first and the second grants vest 50% on the fourth and sixth anniversaries of the first day of the related performance period. The third grant vests 50% on the third and fourth anniversaries of the first day of the performance period. The Compensation Committee approved the performance metrics for the first two grants prior to the date of grant. The measurement of the first two grants is deemed to have occurred on June 26, 2006 when there was mutual understanding of the key terms and conditions of the first two grants. In 2009 no compensation cost was recognized for the second and the third grant under the AIG Partners Plan because the performance threshold for these awards was not met.
 
Valuation
 
The fair value of RSUs and performance RSUs is based on the closing price of AIG stock on the date of grant.
 
 
 
 
:
The following table presents a summary of shares granted to the Company's employees relating to outstanding awards unvested under the foregoing plans*
 
 
 
 
The total unrecognized compensation cost (net of expected forfeitures) related to non-vested, share-based compensation awards granted to the Company's employees under the 2002 Plan, the 2007 Plan, the AIG DCPPP, the AIG Partners Plan, and the SICO Plans and the weighted-average periods over which those costs are expected to be recognized are as follows:
 
 
 
The Company's employees participate in (a) various benefit pension plans sponsored by ALICO, (b) several defined benefit pension plans sponsored by AIG and certain affiliates, (c) various defined contribution plans sponsored by ALICO and AIG, and (d) a post-retirement medical care and life insurance plan sponsored by AIG.
non-U.S. defined
 
ALICO Sponsored Defined Benefit Pension Plans
Non-U.S.
 
benefit pension plans sponsored by ALICO, which are primarily in Japan with several smaller plans in Europe, are generally based on the employee's years of credited service, compensation, or other factors such as points accumulated based on the employee's job grade.
Non-U.S. defined
 
 
 
 
For the sponsored defined benefit pension plans, the following table presents their funded status reconciled to the amounts reported in the Combined Balance Sheet and their accumulated benefit obligations as well as the employer contributions and benefits paid:
non-U.S. ALICO
 
 
 
 
sponsored defined benefit pension plans in which the projected benefit obligations were in excess of the related plan assets and in which the accumulated benefit obligations were in excess of the related plan assets were the same. The following table summarizes such sponsored defined benefit pension plans:
Non-U.S. ALICO
non-U.S. ALICO
 
 
The following table presents the reclassification adjustments of accumulated other comprehensive income recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost and the total net periodic benefit cost for the sponsored defined benefit pension plans:
non-U.S. ALICO
 
 
 
 
 
The estimated net loss and prior-service credit that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year, ending November 30, 2010, are $16 million and $(2) million, respectively, for the sponsored defined benefit pension plans.
non-U.S. ALICO
 
The pension expense in fiscal year 2010 for the sponsored defined benefit pension plans is expected to be approximately $81 million.
non-U.S. ALICO
 
Assumptions
 
The benefit obligations and the net periodic benefit costs for sponsored defined benefit pension plans reflect those assumptions that were most appropriate for the local economic environments of each of the subsidiaries providing such benefits.
non-U.S. ALICO
 
The following table summarizes the weighted average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations of the sponsored defined benefit pension plans:
non-U.S. ALICO
 
 
The following table summarizes the weighted average assumptions used to determine the net periodic benefit costs of the sponsored defined benefit pension plans:
non-U.S. ALICO
 
 
Plan Assets
 
The investment strategy with respect to assets relating to sponsored defined benefit pension plans is designed to achieve investment returns that will (a) provide for the benefit obligations of the plans over the long term, (b) limit the risk of short-term funding shortfalls, and (c) maintain liquidity sufficient to address cash needs. Accordingly, the asset allocation is designed to maximize the investment rate of return while managing various risk factors, including but not limited to, volatility relative to the benefit obligations, diversification and concentration, and the risk and rewards profile indigenous to each asset class.
non-U.S. ALICO
 
There were no shares of AIG Common Stock included in the plan assets at November 30, 2009.
non-U.S. pension
 
The long-term strategic asset allocations are periodically reviewed and revised by Management. Plan assets are monitored and periodically reviewed by both management and the investment managers, which can entail allocating the plan assets among approved asset classes within pre-approved ranges permitted by the strategic allocation.
 
ALICO's benefit pension plan assets are held in trusts in Japan, Greece, and Portugal and are invested in equity, fixed income, and other investments to maximize the long-term return on assets for a given level of risk. Other investments include cash, real estate, and hedge funds asset classes. Of the $82 million of plan assets, approximately 90% are held in Japan.
non-U.S. defined
 
For the year ended November 30, 2009, the expected long-term rates of return for the plans ranged from 3.0% to 6.5% with a weighted average of 3.2%. The expected rate of return for each country is an aggregation of expected returns within each asset class for such country. For each country, the return with respect to each asset class was developed based on a building block approach that considers historical returns, current market
non-U.S. pension
 
 
 
 
conditions, asset volatility, and the expectations for future market returns. While the assessment of the expected rate of return is long-term and thus not expected to change annually, significant changes in investment strategy or economic conditions may warrant such a change. The expected asset return and contributions made by ALICO together are expected to maintain the plan's ability to meet all required benefit obligations.
 
Fair Value Measurements of Plan Assets
 
In accordance with the accounting standard on Employers' Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets, ALICO has measured and classified by fair value hierarchy level the assets in the sponsored defined benefit pension plans using the fair value measurement and classification methodology described in Note 3 herein.
non-U.S. ALICO
 
The following table presents information about plan assets of the sponsored defined benefit pension plans based on the level within the fair value hierarchy in which the fair value measurement falls:
non-U.S. ALICO
 
 
The following table presents changes in the Level 3 plan assets that were measured at fair value:
 
 
The inputs and methodologies used for valuing plan assets are not necessarily an indication of the risk associated with investing in the assets. In accordance with ALICO strategy for investing plan assets, the sponsored defined benefit pension plans have no significant concentrations of risks.
non-U.S. ALICO
 
Expected Cash Flows
 
During 2010, ALICO is expecting to contribute $18 million to its sponsored defined benefit pension plans and to pay $35 million in direct benefit payments to participants. These estimates are subject to change since contribution decisions are affected by various factors, including ALICO's liquidity, plan asset dispositions, market performance, and Management's discretion.
non-U.S. ALICO
 
 
 
 
For sponsored defined benefit plans, the expected future benefit payments of the funded plans and the expected future direct benefit payments by ALICO for the unfunded plans are as follows:
non-U.S. ALICO
 
 
AIG Sponsored Defined Benefit Pension Plans
 
Certain of the Company's employees participate in a defined benefit plan, certain benefit plans, and several U.S. non-qualified unfunded defined benefit plans sponsored by AIG. AIG's defined benefit plan is a non-contributory plan which is subject to the provisions of ERISA. employees who are employed by a participating company, have attained age 21, and completed twelve months of continuous service are eligible to participate in the plan. Employees vest after five years of service. Unreduced benefits are paid to retirees at normal retirement (age 65) and are based upon a percentage of final average compensation multiplied by years of credited service, up to 44 years. benefit plans are generally based on the employee's years of credited service, compensation, or on points accumulated based on the employee's job grade.
U.S.-qualified
non-U.S. defined
U.S.-qualified
U.S.-salaried
U.S.-qualified
Non-U.S. defined
 
For certain employees of the Company, including key executives, AIG also sponsors several unfunded defined benefit plans designed to supplement pension benefits provided by AIG's other retirement plans and include the AIG Excess Retirement Income Plan, which provides a benefit equal to the reduction in benefits payable to certain employees under the AIG retirement plan as a result of federal tax limitations on compensation and benefits payable, and the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, which provides additional retirement benefits to designated executives. Under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, an annual benefit accrues at a percentage of final average pay multiplied by each year of credited service, not greater than 60% of final average pay, reduced by any benefits from the current and any predecessor retirement plans (including the AIG Excess Retirement Income Plan and any comparable plans), Social Security, and any qualified pension plan of prior employers.
U.S.-qualified
 
The AIG sponsored defined benefit pension plans were accounted for as a participation in a multiemployer plan. The Company's pre-tax expense that was allocated from AIG for the AIG sponsored defined benefit pension plans was $4.6 million for the year ended November 30, 2009.
 
Defined Contribution Plans
 
ALICO sponsors a number of small contribution plans for which its pre-tax expense was $14.5 million for the year ended November 30, 2009. In addition, certain U.S. employees of the Company participate in a voluntary savings plan sponsored by AIG, which provides for salary reduction contributions by employees and matching contributions of up to seven percent of annual salary depending on the employees' years of service. The AIG sponsored voluntary savings plan was accounted for as a participation in a multiemployer plan. The Company's pre-tax expense associated with this plan was $2.6 million for the year ended November 30, 2009.
non-U.S. defined
 
 
 
 
Post-retirement Plans
 
Certain employees participate in an unfunded plan sponsored by AIG that provides post-retirement medical care and life insurance benefits in the U.S. and in certain other countries. Eligibility in the plan is generally based upon completion of a specified period of eligible service and attaining a specified age. Benefits are based upon the employee electing immediate retirement and having a minimum of ten years of service. Medical benefits are contributory, while the life insurance benefits are non-contributory. The AIG sponsored post-retirement plan was accounted for as a participation in a multiemployer plan. The Company's pre-tax post-retirement expense allocated from AIG was $84 thousand for the year ended November 30, 2009.
 
 
Investments
 
As of November 30, 2009, the Company has investments in related parties of $725 million, which is composed of the following:
 
(a) Bonds available for sale
 
The Company owns securities issued by another subsidiary of AIG, Castle Trust, which securitizes third-party airplane leases. This investment is recorded at fair value of $106 million. The Company recognized interest income of $9 million and a decrease to Accumulated other comprehensive loss of $30 million relating to this investment in 2009.
 
(b) Common and preferred shares available for sale
 
The Company has 3,169,589 shares, or 2.3%, of the common stock of AIG. This investment is recorded at fair value of $90 million. The Company recognized a decrease to Accumulated other comprehensive income of $37 million relating to this investment in 2009. No dividends were paid on this stock during 2009.
(See Footnote 18, Subsequent Events.)
 
(c) Mortgage and other loans receivable
 
ALICO has a loan receivable of $174 million from AIG Funding Inc., which has an interest rate of 1.65% and matures on April 16, 2013.
 
ALICO entered into an agreement with an affiliate, AIG Kabushiki Kaisha on January 1, 2007, to loan its excess cash to AIG Kabushiki Kaisha at short-term rates tied to the one-week Tokyo Interbank Borrowed Rate (TIBOR) plus 0.25%. The Company may withdraw cash from the account on demand and the agreement may be cancelled by either party upon 30 days advance, written notice. The principal amount outstanding on the loan was $29 million as of November 30, 2009.
 
ALICO entered into a loan receivable denominated in Polish zlotys with AIG Bank Polska S.A., a subsidiary of AIG. The loan matures in 2014 and will be extended automatically for one-year periods until either party delivers a 90 day notice prior to the anniversary date of intent not to extend the loan. Interest is paid annually at an interest rate of 7.85% until 2009. Thereafter, the loan rate will be reset annually based on the one-year Warsaw Interbank Loan Rate ("WIBOR") plus 1.15% for years 6-10 and plus 1.05% for periods thereafter. The principal amount outstanding on the loan was $23 million as of November 30, 2009.
 
ALICO has a loan receivable of $6 million with AIG Global Real Estate as of November 30, 2009. This is an loan with an interest rate of 3.50%.
18-month
 
The Company had total loans receivable from related parties of $232 million as of November 30, 2009 as listed above and recorded interest earned of $5 million on these related party loans.
 
 
 
 
(d) Other invested assets
 
(i) Derivative Transactions
 
As part of its risk management program, the Company routinely enters into interest rate and foreign currency swaps with AIGFP, an entity that is controlled by AIG. The notional amounts and fair value of these related-party instruments are presented in the following table:
 
 
 
 
ALICO is a party to an Indemnity Agreement with AIG, under which AIG indemnifies ALICO against foreign currency losses on 105 billion Japanese yen (approximately $1,219 million U.S. dollars as of November 30, 2009) resulting from unfavorable exchange rate movements against the U.S. dollar. This arrangement serves as an economic hedge against a portfolio of U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturity investments held by ALICO's Japan branch. However, it has not been designated as a hedge for accounting purposes. The fair value of this arrangement, which has been accounted for as a derivative instrument, was an asset of $263 million as of November 30, 2009. The changes in fair value recorded in other realized capital gains and (losses) recognized in the year ended November 30, 2009 was $99 million. The income recorded by ALICO for this transaction is not taxable.
 
As a result of the related party derivative transactions, the Company recorded the following gains during 2009:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Related Party Security Lending
 
The Company participates in a security lending program managed by an affiliate, AIG Global Security Lending. The Company has continued to reduce its security lending activities as it pursues an orderly closure of the program. As of November 30, 2009, the fair value of assets in the security lending program was $305 million and the fair value of assets received as collateral was $249 million, excluding $69 million in letters of credit received as collateral.
 
There were no fees paid or payable to affiliates in the year ended November 30, 2009 for acting as an agent in securities lending transactions.
 
The Company generally obtains and maintains cash collateral from securities borrowers at current market levels for the securities lent. As of November 30, 2009, the Company's invested collateral is composed of $183 million of short-term investments and $66 million of bonds available for sale.
 
Related Party Reinsurance Agreements
 
In the ordinary course of business, the Company places reinsurance with other insurance companies in order to limit the potential for losses arising from large risks and to provide additional capacity for future growth as part of its risk management program. A number of these reinsurance agreements are with affiliates. See Note 5 for reinsurance premiums ceded to and assumed from affiliates for the year ended November 30, 2009.
 
In addition to the related party reinsurance agreement, in 2004, ALICO has entered into an agreement with RGA Reinsurance Company (RGA), a third-party reinsurer company, to reinsure certain Single Premium Deferred Annuity policies written in Japan. Independent of ALICO entering into this agreement, AIG entered into an agreement with RGA to provide investment performance guarantees with respect to the return on funds withheld by ALICO pursuant to the reinsurance treaty between ALICO and RGA. The agreement between AIG and RGA is believed to enable ALICO to incur lower reinsurance costs associated with the agreement. During the year ended November 30, 2009, ALICO ceded premiums of $469 million to RGA, which were subject to the investment performance guarantee.
 
Long-term debt
 
As of November 30, 2009, the Company's long-term debt primarily consists of borrowings from affiliates. The Company's balance of Loans and notes payable was approximately $1 billion as of November 30, 2009 and the Company recognized related party interest expense on borrowings of $16 million in the year ended November 30, 2009. See Note 11 for more details on such borrowings.
 
General Corporate Services and Costs
 
The Company receives a number of services from AIG, which include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The costs of these services and other costs incurred by AIG have been directly charged or allocated to the Company, using methods Management believes are reasonable, and are included in Policy acquisition and other expenses of the Combined Statement of Income. These methods include various measures of direct usage and corporate formulas involving proportionate measures of assets, revenues and employee headcount. Such charges are not necessarily indicative of what the Company would have been incurred if the Company had been a separate entity and otherwise managed these services and costs.
 
Amounts expensed by the Company for these services and costs were $34 million for the year ended November 30, 2009. Additional allocated services and costs were not and will not be reimbursed by the Company to AIG. These unreimbursed allocated costs were $78 million for 2009 and were recorded as a capital contribution in the year ended November 30, 2009. The total cost of these reimbursed and unreimbursed general corporate services and costs totaled $112 million for the year ended November 30, 2009.
 
Related Party Services and Cost-Sharing Agreements
 
In addition to the general corporate services provided by the Parent, the Company has a number of various management, service contracts and cost-sharing agreements with other AIG subsidiaries. Those agreements cover services which include data processing, other computer-related services, rent, shared utilities, consulting, investment related services, business administrative services and other operating expenses incurred in the normal course of business. In the year ended November 30, 2009, the Company recognized net costs of $198 million from affiliates for these services, which are included in Policy acquisition and other expenses.
 
Payment of Outstanding Balances Due from Corporate Services and Related Party Services
 
The Company generally settles its payables to and receivables from related parties in cash, although in some instances agreements might provide for right of offset against other related obligations. As of November 30, 2009, the Company had a net receivable of $60 million in Other assets from transactions resulting from general corporate services and costs and related party services and cost-sharing agreements.
 
 
The Company generates substantially all of its income from foreign branches and subsidiaries. Income generated by branch operations is subject to tax currently in both the foreign and U.S. jurisdictions. Income generated by subsidiary operations is taxed in the foreign jurisdiction and taxed in the U.S. either currently if it is considered U.S. "subpart F" income or in later years when income is distributed to the U.S. The Company records a deferred tax liability for U.S. income tax on undistributed income of its foreign subsidiaries when it no longer plans to permanently reinvest the income with the subsidiary.
 
As a consequence of AIG's contribution of American Life Insurance Company to ALICO Holdings , American Life Insurance Company is no longer a member of the AIG consolidated tax return after November 30, 2009. In addition, the transfer of American Life Insurance Company to ALICO Holdings was treated as an asset sale under section 338 of the Internal Revenue Code. As a result, the Company's tax basis in its assets and liabilities was remeasured to fair value. The remeasurement resulted in an increase in the tax basis of the Company's net assets and a corresponding increase in deferred tax assets of $1,115 million, net of a $992 million valuation allowance. Also related to the restructuring AIG assumed a liability of $235 million primarily related to the Company's U.S. uncertain tax positions. Furthermore, the Company's deferred tax asset of $427 million related to capital loss carryforwards was deemed to have been distributed to AIG. A full valuation allowance had been recorded for this deferred tax asset.
(See Note 1)
 
As these tax adjustments resulted from transactions between American Life Insurance Company's shareholders, the adjustments were reported directly as an increase in Shareholder's net investment. The net effect of the restructuring resulted in a $1,350 million increase primarily to Shareholder's net investment.
 
 
 
 
The following table presents the provision for income taxes:
 
 
The Company's actual income tax expense from operations differs from the statutory U.S. federal amount computed by applying the federal income tax rate due to the following:
 
 
Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. The following table presents the components of the net deferred tax liability:
 
 
 
 
 
As of November 30, 2009, the Company had net operating losses in Japan in the amount of $1.7 billion that will expire, if not utilized, in 2016. This operating loss carryforward is not presented in the above deferred tax table because it is netted with an offsetting U.S. deferred foreign tax credit. Similarly, foreign branch deferred taxes have been disclosed net of U.S. tax effects.
 
The Company evaluates the recoverability of deferred tax assets and establishes a valuation allowance, if necessary, to reduce the deferred tax asset to an amount that is more likely than not expected to be realized (a likelihood of more than 50 percent). Significant judgment is required to determine whether a valuation allowance is necessary and the amount of such valuation allowance, if appropriate.
 
The Company's branch operations are subject to tax in the U.S. and in the relevant foreign jurisdictions. Certain of the Company's deferred tax assets do not represent future tax benefits in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions. For example, the tax-basis intangible asset is only available to reduce future U.S. taxable income. As a result, with respect to these items, there is no parity between the impact on future taxable income in the U.S. and the impact on future taxable income in the foreign jurisdictions. Instead, with respect to these items, realization is dependent upon taxable income that is not only sufficient in terms of character, but that is also generated in the relevant taxing jurisdiction.
 
In weighing the available evidence, both positive and negative, Management has concluded that taxable income projected in the U.S. is not sufficient to support realization of a portion of the deferred tax assets. As such, the Company has concluded that a valuation allowance of $992 million was required as of November 30, 2009 to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not expected to be realized against future taxable income.
 
Differences between Benefits for Loss approach and Separate Return approach
 
For the year ended November 30, 2009, under the benefits for loss approach the Company recorded a current tax benefit for all foreign tax credits generated. Under the separate return approach the Company would have classified $216 million of such foreign tax credits as a deferred tax benefit rather than a current tax benefit to reflect that certain foreign tax credits would not have been utilized currently but would have been available to be carried forward and utilized in future years. Total income tax expense would not have changed as no valuation allowance would have been needed for this foreign tax credit carryforward.
 
For the year ended November 30, 2009, the tax benefit for capital loss carryforwards arising during the year recorded using the benefits for loss approach in the amount of $57 million differs from the amount that would have been reflected if the Company had applied a separate return approach. Under the separate return approach, the Company would have generated a capital loss carryforward and would have recorded a full valuation allowance for the carryforward, increasing income tax expense by $57 million.
 
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
 
The following table presents a rollforward of the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits:
 
 
 
 
 
As of November 30, 2009, the Company's unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, were $141 million. The Company's unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, decreased by approximately $135 million primarily due to current year settlements in foreign jurisdictions and the distribution of unrecognized tax benefits to AIG as a result of the AIG restructuring.
 
As of November 30, 2009, the Company's unrecognized tax benefits included $136 million related to tax positions, the disallowance of which would not affect the effective tax rate as they relate to such factors as the timing, rather than the permissibility, of the deduction. Accordingly, as of November 30, 2009, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective tax rate was $5 million.
 
As of November 30, 2009 the Company had accrued $25 million for the payment of interest (net of the federal benefit) and penalties. For the year ended November 30, 2009 the Company recognized $5 million of interest (net of the federal benefit) and penalties in the Combined Statement of Income.
 
The Company continually evaluates adjustments proposed by relevant taxing authorities in arriving at its estimates of unrecognized tax benefits and related reserves at each period end. The effects of any adjustments are accrued for as part of the unrecognized tax benefits or related reserves. The effects of any such adjustments or the resolution of proposed adjustments compared to the Company's estimates could be material to the Company's combined results of operations for an individual reporting period. Although it is reasonably possible that a significant change in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits may occur within the next 12 months, at this time it is not possible to estimate the range of the change due to the uncertainty of the potential outcomes.
 
Listed below are the tax years that remain subject to examination by major tax jurisdictions:
 
 
 
The Company has evaluated transactions for consideration as subsequent events through February 26, 2010, which is the date when statements were issued by its parent company, AIG. Additionally, the Company has evaluated transactions that occurred before the issuance of these financial statements, May 14, 2010, for consideration as subsequent events.
 
Potential IRS Withholding Claim
 
On March 4, 2010, ALICO received a ruling from the IRS on the application of IRS ruling that requires foreign branches of U.S. companies in certain circumstances to withhold taxes of customers resident in a foreign country receiving distributions from certain of the Company's insurance and investment products. The IRS ruling provides transitional relief to ALICO, such that ALICO's foreign branches will not be required to withhold customer distributions, nor will it be taxed, under IRS ruling through December 31, 2013. ALICO has agreed to submit a plan to the IRS within 90 days after the close of its sale to MetLife , such that no substantial distributions will be made after December 31, 2013 by ALICO's foreign branches to customers resident in foreign countries, which the IRS considers subject to withholding under IRS ruling ALICO expects this plan, which is not yet completed, may require transfer of business from certain of the foreign branches of ALICO to one or more existing or newly-formed foreign affiliates of the Company. Due to both the timing of the creation of the plan and the uncertainty related to the plan and its execution, no reasonable estimation of the amount
2004-75
(See Note 12, Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees, (c) for more detail.)
2004-75
(See Sale of the Company to MetLife, Inc. in Note 1)
2004-75.
 
 
 
 
of expenses related to its creation and execution can be made at this time. Additionally, no range of amounts is estimable due to these uncertainties. As a result of the IRS ruling, the Company released its contingency reserve of $37 million in the first quarter of 2010.
 
There can be no assurance that ALICO will achieve the plan presented to the IRS within the required time frame of December 31, 2013 because of regulatory approvals and other requirements. Failure to achieve the plan timely could have a material adverse effect on future revenues or expenses or both.
 
Agreement for the Sale of the Company
 
On March 7, 2010 AIG and ALICO Holdings entered into a definitive agreement for the sale of the Company to MetLife for approximately $15.5 billion, including $6.8 billion in cash and the remainder in equity securities of MetLife, subject to closing adjustments. The cash portion of the proceeds from this sale will be used to reduce the liquidation preference of a portion of the preferred membership interests held by the FRBNY in ALICO Holdings. The transaction is expected to close in 2010 and is subject to certain regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
 
Prior to closing, AIG is required to complete certain transactions that affect the Company as described below. The related party relationships are disclosed in Note 11, Borrowings and Note 16, Related Party Transactions.
 
 
Management's current view is that the aforementioned transactions, considered as a whole, are not expected to have a material impact on the financial condition of the Company.
 
Sale of Common shares in AIG
 
On March 24, 2010, the Company sold its 3,169,589 AIG common shares to its parent, AIG, for proceeds of approximately $110 million or approximately $34.70 per share, which was based on the volume-weighted average price over a business period between March 10, 2010 and March 23, 2010 as quoted by Bloomberg L.P. The Company expects to report a net realized capital gain of approximately $108 million on the sale in the second quarter of 2010.
ten-day

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
(See Note 9 for details of related party balances)
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
(See Note 9 for details of income and expenses from related parties.)
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
These condensed combined financial statements comprise the financial position and operating results of the managed insurance businesses of American Life Insurance Company ("ALICO") and Delaware American Life Insurance Company ("DELAM"), along with their consolidated subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as "the Company" or "American Life Insurance Company and the Transferred Subsidiaries"). The fiscal second quarter of ALICO ends May 31 and the fiscal second quarter of DELAM ends June 30. For purposes of these condensed combined financial statements and accompanying notes, all financial data as of and for the six months ended May 31, includes the financial position and operating results of DELAM as of and for the six months ending June 30. The effects to these condensed combined financial statements and accompanying notes by including DELAM using the six months ended June 30 are not material. Unless otherwise indicated, all references in these condensed combined financial statements and accompanying notes represent the Company's financial position as of May 31, 2010 and November 30, 2009, and its results of operations for the six months ended May 31, 2010 and 2009.
 
The condensed combined financial statements also include certain international life insurance businesses that have been managed by the Company but were previously legally owned by American International Group, Inc. ("AIG" or the "Parent") or other AIG subsidiaries. These combinations have been accounted for as reorganizations of entities under common control and all prior financial statements presented have been adjusted so as to reflect the Company's financial position and results of operations as if the purchased and contributed businesses were always a part of the Company. Consolidated subsidiaries include those entities in which the Company has a controlling financial interest, either through a majority voting interest or as the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity.
(See Note 5 for further information on the Company's consolidated variable interest entities.)
 
Effective November 30, 2009, in connection with an AIG restructuring plan, AIG contributed all of the outstanding common shares of ALICO to a special purpose vehicle, ALICO Holdings, LLC ("ALICO Holdings") in exchange for all common and preferred membership interests in ALICO Holdings. Additionally, AIG transferred the preferred membership interests in ALICO Holdings to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York ("FRBNY") in satisfaction of $9.0 billion in outstanding obligations to the FRBNY's credit facility provided to AIG. AIG holds all outstanding common interests of ALICO Holdings.
 
On March 7, 2010, AIG and ALICO Holdings entered into a definitive agreement for the sale of the Company to MetLife, Inc. (MetLife) for approximately $15.5 billion, including $6.8 billion in cash and the remainder in equity securities of MetLife, subject to closing adjustments. The cash portion of the proceeds from this sale will be used to reduce the liquidation preference of the preferred membership interests held by the FRBNY in the special purpose vehicle ALICO Holdings. The transaction is expected to close in 2010 and is subject to certain regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
 
Prior to closing, AIG is required to complete certain transactions that affect the Company as described below.
 
 
Management's current view is that the aforementioned transactions, considered as a whole, are not expected to have a material impact on the financial condition of the Company.
Table of Contents
 
 
These condensed combined financial statements do not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for complete combined financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the combined financial statements and the related notes as of and for the year ended November 30, 2009. Accordingly, certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted. The results of operations for the interim periods should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for the full year. In the opinion of Management, these condensed combined financial statements contain the normal recurring adjustments necessary for fair statement of the results presented herein. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
 
The Company has evaluated transactions for consideration as subsequent events through July 29, 2010. No subsequent events have occurred.
 
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires Management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of certain assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
 
The Company considers its most critical accounting estimates to be those with respect to items considered by Management in:
 
 
These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the assumptions used, the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially affected.
 
Adoption of Recent Accounting Standards:
 
The Company adopted the following accounting standards during the six month period ended May 31, 2010:
 
Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets
 
In June 2009, the FASB issued an accounting standard addressing transfer of financial assets that removes the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity (QSPE) from the FASB Accounting Standards Codification and removes the exception from applying the consolidation rules to QSPEs. The new standard is effective for the Company's interim and annual periods beginning December 1, 2009. The Company adopted the standard in the six month interim period ending May 31, 2010. The adoption of the accounting standard did not have a material effect on the Company's combined financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 
In June 2009, the FASB issued an accounting standard that amends the rules addressing consolidation of variable interest entities with an approach focused on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct the
Table of Contents
 
 
activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly affect the entity's economic performance and has (1) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or (2) the right to receive benefits from the entity. The new standard also requires enhanced financial reporting by enterprises involved with variable-interest entities. The new standard became effective for all of the Company's interim and annual periods beginning December 1, 2009. In February 2010, the FASB issued an update to the aforementioned accounting standard that defers the revised consolidation rules for variable interest entities with attributes of, or similar to, an investment company or money market fund. The primary effect of this deferral for ALICO is that the Company will continue to apply the consolidation rules in effect before the amended guidance discussed above for its interests in eligible entities, such as certain mutual funds. The adoption of the accounting standard did not have a material effect on the Company's combined financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. (
See Note 5, Variable Interest Entities.)
 
Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements
 
In January 2010, the FASB issued an accounting standard that amends the requirements for fair value measurement disclosures. This standard requires additional fair value measurement disclosures including the amount of and reasons for transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements. It also changes the requirement to disclose purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the reconciliation of recurring Level 3 fair value measurements to a gross basis rather than a net basis. In addition, the standard clarifies that the level of disaggregation required for existing fair value disclosures should be provided for each class of assets and liabilities. Also, disclosures about inputs and valuation techniques, as well as changes to those inputs and valuation techniques from previous periods, should be disclosed for Level 2 and Level 3 fair value measurements on an interim and annual basis. The new standard became effective for all of the Company's interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of activity in the recurring Level 3 fair value measurements, which are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption of the accounting standard did not have a material effect on the Company's combined financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, but did result in additional disclosure in Footnote 3 of the Condensed Combined Financial Statements.
 
 
Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis
 
The Company measures at fair value on a recurring basis, financial instruments in its trading and available for sale securities portfolios, derivative assets and liabilities, securities lending invested collateral, non-traded equity investments, certain private limited partnerships, certain hedge funds included in Other invested assets, certain Short-term investments, separate and variable account assets and certain Policyholder contract deposits. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that the Company believes would be received at a sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between willing, able and knowledgeable market participants at the measurement date.
 
The degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments generally correlates with the level of pricing observability. Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets generally have more pricing observability and thus require less judgment in measuring fair value. Conversely, financial instruments traded in markets or that do not have quoted prices have less observability and are measured at fair value using valuation models or other pricing techniques that require more judgment. An active market is one in which transactions for the particular asset or liability being valued occurs with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. An market is one in which there are few transactions, prices are not current, price quotations vary substantially either over time or among market makers, or in which little information is released publicly for the particular asset or liability being valued. Pricing observability is affected by a number of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether the financial instrument is new to the market and not yet established, characteristics specific to the transaction and overall general market conditions.
other-than-active
other-than-active
Table of Contents
 
 
Fair Value Hierarchy
 
Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the condensed Combined Balance Sheet are measured and classified in a hierarchy for disclosure purposes consisting of three "levels" based on the observability of inputs available in the marketplace as discussed below:
 
 
Valuation Methodologies
 
The following is a description of the valuation inputs and methodologies used for instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis:
 
Incorporation of Credit Risk in Fair Value Measurements
 
A key component to the fair value measurement is the incorporation of nonperformance risk, including credit risk. The credit risk of the counterparty is incorporated into the calculation of the credit risk adjustment for fair value measurements in an asset position. Fair values for fixed maturity securities based on observable market prices for identical or similar instruments implicitly incorporate counterparty credit risk. The Company's own credit risk is incorporated into the calculation of the credit risk adjustment for fair value measurements in a liability position. The Company also uses the assumptions that a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability. This includes a market participant's assumptions about the risk of default and how that risk will be valued.
 
Generally, the current credit exposure of the Company's derivative contracts is limited to the net positive estimated fair value of derivative contracts at the reporting date after taking into consideration the existence of netting agreements and any collateral received. The Company manages its credit risk related to derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy counterparties.
over-the-counter
Table of Contents
 
 
Fixed Maturity Securities  Trading and Available for Sale
 
The Company maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Whenever available, the Company obtains quoted prices in active markets for identical assets at the balance sheet date to measure at fair value fixed maturity securities in its trading and available for sale portfolios. Market price data generally is obtained from dealer markets.
 
The Company estimates the fair value of fixed maturity securities not traded in active markets by referring to traded securities with similar attributes, using dealer quotations, a matrix pricing methodology, discounted cash flow analyses internal valuation models. This methodology considers such factors as the issuer's industry, the security's rating and tenor, its coupon rate, its position in the capital structure of the issuer, yield curves, credit curves, prepayment rates and other relevant factors. For certain fixed maturity instruments (for example, private placements) that are not traded in active markets or that are subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity non-transferability, and such adjustments generally are based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, Management's best estimate is used.
and/or
and/or
 
Equity Securities Traded in Active Markets  Trading and Available for Sale
 
The Company maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Whenever available, the Company obtains quoted prices in active markets for identical assets at the balance sheet date to measure at fair value marketable equity securities in its trading and available for sale portfolios. Market price data generally is obtained from exchange or dealer markets.
 
Hedge Funds, Private Equity Funds and Other Investment Partnerships  Other Invested Assets
 
The Company initially estimates the fair value of investments in certain hedge funds, private equity funds and other investment partnerships by reference to the transaction price. Subsequently, the Company generally obtains the fair value of these investments from net asset value information provided by the general partner or manager of the investments, the financial statements of which are generally audited annually. The Company considers observable market data and performs diligence procedures in validating the appropriateness of using the net asset value as a fair value measurement.
 
Separate Account Assets
 
Separate account assets are composed primarily of registered and unregistered open-end mutual funds that generally trade daily and are measured at fair value in the manner discussed above for equity securities traded in active markets.
 
Freestanding Derivatives
 
Derivative assets and liabilities can be exchange-traded or traded (OTC). The Company generally values exchange-traded derivatives using quoted prices in active markets for identical derivatives at the balance sheet date.
over-the-counter
 
OTC derivatives are valued using market transactions and other market evidence whenever possible, including market-based inputs to models, model calibration to market clearing transactions, broker or dealer quotations or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. When models are used, the selection of a particular model to value an OTC derivative depends on the contractual terms of, and specific risks inherent in the instrument, as well as the availability of pricing information in the market. The Company generally uses similar models to value similar instruments. Valuation models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms, market prices and rates, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates and correlations of such inputs. For OTC derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs can generally be corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means, and model selection does not involve significant Management judgment.
Table of Contents
 
 
Certain OTC derivatives trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, and the determination of fair value for these derivatives is inherently more difficult. When the Company does not have corroborating market evidence to support significant model inputs and cannot verify the model to market transactions, the transaction price is initially used as the best estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value such an instrument, the model is adjusted so the model value at inception equals the transaction price. Subsequent to initial recognition, the Company updates valuation inputs when corroborated by evidence such as similar market transactions, third party pricing services broker or dealer quotations, or other empirical market data. When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors such as liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations. Such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, Management's best estimate is used.
and/or
 
Embedded Derivatives
 
The Company purchases and issues financial instruments and products that contain embedded derivative instruments. When it is determined that (1) the embedded derivative possesses economic characteristics that are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract, and (2) a separate instrument with the same terms would qualify as a derivative instrument, the embedded derivative is bifurcated from the host for measurement purposes. The embedded derivative, which is reported with the host instrument in the Combined Balance Sheets, is carried at fair value with changes in fair value reported in Net realized capital gains and losses or Policyholder benefits and claims incurred, as appropriate.
 
Policyholder Contract Deposits
 
Policyholder contract deposits accounted for at fair value are measured using an earnings approach by taking into consideration the following factors:
 
 
The change in fair value of these policyholder contract deposits, including any premiums or fees collected, is recorded as Policyholder benefits and claims incurred in the Condensed Combined Statements of Income. Policy fees and premiums collected are not recorded separately as revenue.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
 
The following tables present information about assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and indicates the level of the fair value measurement based on the levels of the inputs used as of May 31, 2010 and November 30, 2009:
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Changes in Level 3 recurring fair value measurements
 
The following tables present the changes for the six months ended May 31, 2010 and 2009 in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, and the realized and unrealized gains (losses) recorded in income during those periods related to the Level 3 assets and liabilities that remained as of May 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Both observable and unobservable inputs may be used to determine the fair values of positions classified in Level 3 in the tables above. As a result, the unrealized gains (losses) on instruments held as of May 31, 2010 and 2009, may include changes in fair value that were attributable to both observable (e.g. changes in market interest rates) and unobservable inputs (e.g. changes in unobservable long-dated volatilities).
 
The Company's policy is to transfer assets and liabilities into Level 3 when a significant input cannot be corroborated with market observable data. This may include: circumstances in which market activity has dramatically decreased and transparency to underlying inputs cannot be observed, current prices are not available and substantial price variances in quotations among market participants exist.
 
In certain cases, the inputs used to measure the fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety
Table of Contents
 
 
falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment. In making the assessment, factors specific to the asset or liability are considered.
 
During the six months ended May 31, 2010, the Company transferred into Level 3 approximately $678 million of assets, consisting of certain ABS, CMBS, RMBS and non-US government bonds as well as private placement corporate debt. A majority of the transfers into Level 3 related to investments in CMBS and was due to a decrease in market transparency and downward credit migration in these securities.
 
Assets are transferred out of Level 3 when circumstances change such that significant inputs can be corroborated with market observable data. This may be due to a significant increase in market activity for the asset, a specific event, one or more significant input(s) becoming observable, or when a long-term interest rate significant to a valuation becomes short-term and thus observable. During the six months ended May 31, 2010, approximately $79 million of assets were transferred out of Level 3. These transfers out of Level 3 were primarily related to investments in certain ABS and RMBS and investments in private placement corporate debt. Transfers out of Level 3 for ABS and RMBS investments were primarily due to increased usage of pricing from valuation service providers that were reflective of market activity, where previously an internally adjusted price had been used. Transfers out of Level 3 for private placement corporate debt were primarily the result of using observable pricing information or a third party pricing quote that appropriately reflects the fair value of those securities, without the need for adjustment based on the Company's own assumptions regarding the characteristics of a specific security or the current liquidity in the market.
 
Transfers of Level 1 and Level 2 Assets and Liabilities
 
During the six months ended May 31, 2010, investments with fair values of $1 billion and $88 million were transferred out of Level 1 and into Level 2 and out of Level 2 and into Level 1, respectively. These transfers in the aggregate represent less than one percent of total assets and 14 percent of total equity at May 31, 2010.
 
Investments in certain entities carried at fair value using net asset value per share
 
The following table includes information related to investments in certain other invested assets, including private equity funds, hedge funds and other alternative investments that calculate net asset value per share (or its equivalent). For these investments, which are measured at fair value on a recurring or non-recurring basis at May 31, 2010 and November 30, 2009, the net asset value per share is used as a practical expedient for fair value as of:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Private equity fund investments included above are not redeemable during the lives of the funds, and have expected remaining lives that extend in some cases to 10 years. Seven percent of such funds have expected remaining lives of less than three years, and 93 percent have expected remaining lives between seven and 10 years. Expected lives are based upon legal maturity, which can be extended at the general manager's discretion, typically in one year increments.
 
Global real estate fund investments included above are not redeemable during the lives of the funds, and have expected remaining lives that extend from three to seven years.
 
Fair Value Measurements on a Non-Recurring Basis
 
The fair value of certain assets are measured on a non-recurring basis, generally quarterly, annually, or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. These assets include cost and equity-method investments, collateral securing foreclosed loans and real estate and other fixed assets and goodwill. A variety of techniques are used to measure the fair value of these assets when appropriate, as described below:
 
 
Fair Value Option
 
The Company elected to apply the fair value option to certain single premium variable life products in Japan classified within policyholder contract deposits in the Condensed Combined Balance Sheets. For the six months ended May 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded a gain of $151 million and $66 million, respectively, in Policyholder benefit and claims incurred. The Company elected the fair value option for these liabilities to more closely align its accounting with the economics of its transactions at the time of election. The fair value option election allowed the Company to better match the inherent market risks associated with this business in an efficient and effective manner through the use of derivative instruments entered into with AIG. During the six months ended May 31, 2010, the Company unwound all the affiliated derivatives described above, in conjunction with AIG's restructuring and divestiture plans and currently has no specific plan to manage the inherent market risks of this business through the use of derivative instruments.
Table of Contents
 
 
Fair Value Information about Financial Instruments Not Measured at Fair Value
 
Information regarding the estimation of fair value for financial instruments not carried at fair value (excluding insurance contracts and lease contracts) is discussed below:
 
 
The following table presents the carrying value and estimated fair value of financial instruments as of:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
(a) Securities Available for Sale
 
The following table presents the amortized cost or cost and fair value of available for sale securities:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The following table presents the amortized cost or cost and fair value of available for sale securities:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The following tables summarize the fair value and gross unrealized losses on available for sale securities, aggregated by major investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The Company reviews and evaluates the investment performance of its portfolio. As of May 31, 2010, the Company held 3,210 and 54 of individual fixed maturity and equity securities, respectively, which were in an unrealized loss position, of which 1,730 individual securities were in a continuous unrealized loss position for longer than twelve months. As of November 30, 2009, the Company held 3,177 and 85 individual fixed maturity and equity securities, respectively, which were in an unrealized loss position, of which 1,949 individual securities were in a continuous unrealized loss position for longer than twelve months.
 
The Company did not recognize in earnings the unrealized losses on these fixed maturity securities as of May 31, 2010 and November 30, 2009, because Management neither intends to sell the securities nor does it believe that it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell these securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis. Furthermore, Management expects to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities. In performing this evaluation, Management considered the recovery periods for securities in previous periods of broad market declines. For fixed maturity securities with significant declines, Management performed fundamental credit analysis on a basis, which included consideration of credit enhancements, expected defaults on underlying collateral, review of relevant industry analyst reports and forecasts and other available market data.
security-by-security
Table of Contents
 
 
Contractual Maturities
 
The following tables present the amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available for sale by contractual maturity:
 
 
 
Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because certain borrowers have the right to call or prepay certain obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The following table presents the components of Net investment income:
 
 
 
 
Net unrealized gains included in the Condensed Combined Statements of Income from investment securities classified as trading securities for the six months ended May 31, 2010 and 2009 were $152 million and $1.6 billion, respectively.
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The following table presents the components of Net realized capital losses and the increase (decrease) in unrealized gains (losses) of available for sale investments:
 
 
The following table presents the gross realized gains and gross realized losses from sales of available for sale securities:
 
 
For the six months ended May 31, 2010 and 2009, the aggregate fair value of available for sale securities sold at a loss was $787 million and $396 million, which resulted in a net realized capital loss of $22 million and $28 million, respectively. The average period of time that securities sold at a loss were trading continuously at a price below cost or amortized cost was approximately eight months, for both the six months ended May 31, 2010, and 2009.
Table of Contents
 
 
Evaluating Investments for Impairments
Other-Than-Temporary
 
On March 1, 2009, the Company adopted prospectively a new accounting standard addressing the evaluation of fixed maturity securities for impairments. These requirements have significantly altered the Company's policies and procedures for determining impairment charges recognized through earnings. The new standard requires a company to recognize the credit component (a credit impairment) of an impairment of a fixed maturity security in earnings and the non-credit component in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) when the company does not intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that the company will not be required to sell the security prior to recovery. The new standard also changes the threshold for determining when an impairment has occurred on a fixed maturity security with respect to intent and ability to hold the security until recovery and requires additional disclosures. A credit impairment, which is recognized in earnings when it occurs, is the difference between the amortized cost of the fixed maturity security and the estimated present value of cash flows expected to be collected (recovery value), as determined by Management. The difference between fair value and amortized cost that is not related to a credit impairment is recognized as a separate component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Both credit impairments and impairments recognized as a result of intent to sell are referred to as "impairment charges". The impairment model for equity securities was not affected by the new standard.
other-than-temporary
other-than-temporary
other-than-temporary
 
Fixed Maturity Securities
 
Impairment Policy  Effective March 1, 2009 and Thereafter
 
If the Company intends to sell a fixed maturity security, or it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell a fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis and the fair value of the security is below amortized cost, an impairment has occurred and the amortized cost is written down to current fair value with a corresponding charge to earnings.
other-than-temporary
 
For all other fixed maturity securities for which a credit impairment has occurred, the amortized cost is written down to the estimated recovery value using previous effective yields with a corresponding charge to earnings. Changes in fair value compared to recovery value, if any, are charged to unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of fixed maturity investments on which credit impairments were taken (a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)).
other-than-temporary
 
When assessing the intent to sell a fixed maturity security, or if it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell a fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, Management evaluates relevant facts and circumstances including, but not limited to, decisions to reposition the investment portfolio, sale of securities to meet cash flow needs and sales of securities to capitalize on favorable pricing.
 
The Company considers severe price declines and the duration of such price declines in its assessment of potential credit impairments. Modeled outputs are also modified for certain securities when it is determined that price declines are indicative of factors not comprehended by the cash flow models.
 
In periods subsequent to the recognition of an impairment charge for available for sale fixed maturity securities that were not foreign exchange related, the Company generally prospectively accretes into earnings the difference between the new amortized cost and the expected undiscounted recovery value over the remaining expected holding period of the security.
other-than-temporary
Table of Contents
 
 
The following tables present a roll forward of the credit impairments recognized in earnings for available for sale fixed maturity securities (a):
 
 
 
 
 
In assessing whether a credit impairment has occurred for a structured fixed maturity security, the Company performs evaluations of expected future cash flows. Certain critical assumptions are made with respect to the performance of the securities.
 
When estimating future cash flows for a structured fixed maturity security (e.g. RMBS, CMBS, CDO, ABS), Management considers historical performance of the underlying assets and available market information as well as bond-specific structural considerations, such as credit enhancement and priority of payment structure of the security. In addition, the process of estimating future cash flows includes, but is not limited to, the following critical inputs, which vary by asset class:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
For corporate, municipal and sovereign fixed maturity securities determined to be credit impaired, Management considers the fair value as the recovery value when available information does not indicate that another value is more relevant or reliable. When Management identifies information that supports a recovery value other than the fair value, the determination of a recovery value considers scenarios specific to the issuer and the security, and may be based upon estimates of outcomes of corporate restructurings, political and macro economic factors, stability and financial strength of the issuer, the value of any secondary sources of repayment and the disposition of assets.
 
Impairment Policy  Prior to March 1, 2009
 
Fixed Maturity Securities
 
Prior to March 1, 2009, the Company assessed its ability to hold any fixed maturity available for sale security in an unrealized loss position to its recovery at each balance sheet date. The decision to sell any such fixed maturity security classified as available for sale reflected the judgment of Management that the security sold was unlikely to provide, on a relative value basis, as attractive a return in the future as alternative securities entailing comparable risks. With respect to distressed securities, the sale decision reflected Management's judgment that the risk-adjusted ultimate recovery was less than the value achievable on sale. In that period, fixed maturity securities were evaluated for impairments with respect to valuation as well as credit. After a fixed maturity security had been identified as impaired, the amount of such impairment was determined as the difference between fair value and amortized cost and the entire amount was recorded as a charge to earnings.
other-than-temporary
other-than-temporarily
 
Equity Securities
 
The impairment model for equity securities and other cost and equity method investments was not affected by the adoption of the new accounting standard related to impairments in March of 2009. The Company continues to evaluate its available for sale equity securities, equity method and cost method investments for impairment by considering such securities as candidates for impairment if they meet any of the following criteria:
other-than-temporary
other-than-temporary
 
 
The determination that an equity security is impaired requires the judgment of Management and consideration of the fundamental condition of the issuer, its near-term prospects and all the relevant facts and circumstances. The above criteria also consider circumstances of a rapid and severe market valuation decline in which Management could not reasonably assert that the impairment period would be temporary (severity losses).
other-than-temporarily
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The following table summarizes Other invested assets as of:
 
 
 
 
 
The accounting standard related to the consolidation of variable interest entities (VIEs) provides guidance for determining when to consolidate certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity that is at risk to allow the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support.
 
The Company enters into various arrangements in the normal course of business and is involved with VIEs as a passive investor in debt securities (rated and unrated) and equity interests issued by VIEs and as a joint venture partner in an insurance operation.
 
The Company generally determines whether it is the primary beneficiary or a significant interest holder based on a qualitative assessment of the VIE. This includes a review of the VIE's capital structure, contractual relationships and terms, nature of the VIE's operations and purpose, nature of the VIE's interests issued, and the Company's and its related parties' interests in the entity that either create or absorb variability. Both the design of the VIE and the related risks the entity was designed to expose the variable interest holders to are evaluated in the determination of consolidation. As of May 31, 2010 and November 30, 2009, there was no significant off-balance sheet exposure associated with VIEs.
 
For VIEs with attributes consistent with that of an investment company or a money market fund, the primary beneficiary is the party or group of related parties that absorbs a majority of the expected losses of the VIE, receives the majority of the expected residual returns of the VIE, or both.
 
For all other VIEs, the primary beneficiary is the entity that has both (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly affect the entity's economic performance and (2) the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could be potentially significant to the VIE.
 
The Company defines a variable interest as significant relative to the materiality of its interest in the VIE. The Company calculates its maximum exposure to loss to be (i) the amount invested in the debt or equity of the VIE, (ii) the notional amount of VIE assets or liabilities where the Company has also provided credit protection to the VIE with the VIE as the referenced obligation, and (iii) other commitments and guarantees to the VIE. Other interest holders in VIEs in which the Company is the primary beneficiary and owner generally have recourse only to the assets and cash flows of the VIEs and do not have recourse to the Company.
Table of Contents
 
 
Balance Sheet Classification
 
The Company's interest in the assets and liabilities of consolidated and unconsolidated VIEs were classified on the Condensed Combined Balance Sheets as follows as of:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The Company uses derivatives and other financial instruments as part of its financial risk management programs and as part of its investment operations. Derivatives are financial arrangements among two or more parties with returns linked to or "derived" from some underlying equity, debt, commodity or other asset, liability, or foreign exchange rate or other index, or the occurrence of a specified payment event. Derivative payments may be based on interest rates, exchange rates, prices of certain securities, commodities, or financial or commodity indices, or other variables. Derivatives, with the exception of bifurcated embedded derivatives, are reflected at fair value in the Condensed Combined Balance Sheets in "Other invested assets" and "Other liabilities." None of the derivatives has been designated as a hedge for accounting purposes. Bifurcated embedded derivatives are recorded with the host contract on the Condensed Combined Balance Sheets.
 
The following tables present the notional amounts and fair values of derivative instruments:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
The following table presents the effect of the Company's derivative instruments in the Condensed Combined Statements of Income:
 
 
 
 
 
In the normal course of business, various commitments and contingent liabilities are entered into or apply to the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. In addition, the Company guarantees various obligations of certain subsidiaries.
 
Although the Company cannot currently quantify its ultimate liability for unresolved litigation and investigation matters, including those referred to below, it is possible that such liability could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or its results of operations or combined cash flows for an individual reporting period.
 
 
The Company and its subsidiaries, in common with the insurance and financial services industries in general, is subject to litigation, including claims for punitive damages in the normal course of business. Litigation arising from claims settlement activities is generally considered in the establishment of the Company's liability for Policyholder Funds. However, the potential for increasing jury awards and settlements makes it difficult to assess the ultimate outcome of such litigation.
Litigation Arising from Operations 
 
Argentina Insurance Class Action Suits
 
ALICO Compania de Seguros, S.A, the Company's Argentine subsidiary, along with several banks and credit companies providing certain insurance policies have been named as defendants in nine cases filed by various civil associations between February 21, 2007 and September 14, 2009. The suits allege that the Argentine subsidiary's credit life insurance policy fees were excessive and therefore violated the Argentine Consumer's Protection Act. The plaintiffs in these cases generally seek reimbursement of a portion of the premiums charged for the last three years and in five instances, annulment of the existing policies. No specific amounts have been claimed. The cases are in various stages of litigation, although none has yet been decided by a court of law. No judgments have been awarded to any of the plaintiffs in these cases and the damages to be paid, if any, cannot be reliably estimated at this time.
Table of Contents
 
 
United Kingdom Enhanced Fund Complaints
 
The Company's United Kingdom branch suspended withdrawals from its Enhanced Fund linked to its Premier Access Bond product on September 15, 2008, and then announced closing of that fund as of December 14, 2008, resulting in a number of individual complaints to the United Kingdom Financial Ombudsman Service ("FOS"), an independent body set up by statute to informally review and settle complaints between consumers and businesses. The Company has provided information to the UK regulator, the Financial Services Authority ("FSA") regarding the fund and the branch's actions in closing it and to the FOS with regard to the investor complaints. The FSA is investigating matters in connection with the suspension and closure of the fund and the solutions offered by the branch to customers. No lawsuits have been filed to date against the United Kingdom branch relating to the closure of the Enhanced Fund.
 
Alico Life International Ltd's Italian Internal Fund Suspensions
 
Certain policyholders of certain unit-linked funds offered by the Italian branch of Alico Life International Ltd. ("ALIL"), the Irish subsidiary of the Company, have either commenced or threatened litigation against ALIL's Italian branch as a result of the suspension of withdrawals from and diminution in value of those funds since late 2008, alleging damages for misrepresentation, mis-selling, improper or inadequate disclosures and other related claims. All of the lawsuits are in early stages of litigation.
 
In March 2010, ALIL learned that the public prosecutor in Milan has opened a formal investigation into the actions of employees of ALIL, as well as employees of ALIL's major distributor, based on a policyholder's complaint.
 
ALIL is cooperating with the Italian and Irish regulatory authorities, which have jurisdiction in connection with this matter, and is in discussions to address their concerns as well as those of the affected policyholders. The ultimate resolution of this matter could have a material adverse effect on the Company's combined and consolidated results of operations or cash flows for an individual reporting period.
 
 
In the normal course of business, the Company enters into commitments to invest in limited partnerships, private equities and mutual funds and to purchase and develop real estate. These commitments totaled $135 million as of May 31, 2010, $14 million of which were with affiliates. As of November 30, 2009, commitments totaled $51 million, of which $33 million were with affiliates. These commitments are due over the next four years.
 
 
Liability for Future policy benefits
 
Although the Company regularly reviews the adequacy of the established liability for Future policy benefits, there can be no assurance that the ultimate liability for Future policy benefits will not develop adversely and materially exceed the current liability for Future policy benefits. Legal expenses incurred in connection with any contingencies are expensed as incurred.
 
Japan Policyholder Protection Commission
 
Japan has established a Policyholder Protection Commission as a contingency to protect policyholders against the insolvency of life insurance companies in Japan through assessments to companies licensed to provide life insurance. The recorded liability associated with the Japan Policyholder Protection Commission assessment was $19 million and $32 million as of May 31, 2010 and November 30, 2009, respectively.
Table of Contents
 
 
Potential IRS Withholding Claim
 
U.S. Internal Revenue Service Ruling ("IRS Ruling") provides that in certain cases the income portion of a distribution received by a resident of a foreign country from life insurance and annuity contracts issued by a foreign branch of a U.S. life insurance company is U.S. source income to the foreign country investor or policyholder. A U.S. life insurance company is required to withhold 30 percent of the income portion distributed to the foreign resident unless it falls under a permissible exception. Certain insurance or investment products  those with a cash value, savings or investment elements  when sold by foreign branches of ALICO's U.S. entity, are potentially encompassed by the IRS Ruling.
No. 2004-75
 
ALICO has not withheld taxes on payments by ALICO's branches for insurance or investment products sold to customers that may be encompassed by the IRS Ruling, based on its position that ALICO will not be subject to the IRS Ruling due to the "80/20" Rule. Under the "80/20" Rule, U.S. companies with foreign source income in excess of 80 percent are not subject to U.S. tax withholding obligations for payments they make which are classified as "interest."
 
On March 4, 2010, ALICO entered into a closing agreement with the Commissioner of the IRS with respect to the U.S. withholding tax issue arising from payments by foreign branches of a life insurance company incorporated under U.S. law. The closing agreement provides transitional relief under Section 7805(b) of the Code to ALICO, such that ALICO's foreign branches will not be required to withhold U.S. income tax on the income portion of payments made pursuant to ALICO's life insurance and annuity contracts ("Covered Payments") under IRS Revenue Ruling for any tax periods beginning on January 1, 2005 and ending on December 31, 2013 (the "Deferral Period"). The closing agreement provides that ALICO will submit a plan to the IRS within 90 days after the close of its sale to MetLife (), indicating the steps ALICO will take (on a country by country basis) to ensure that no substantial amount of U.S. withholding tax will arise from Covered Payments made by ALICO's foreign branches to foreign customers after the Deferral Period. In addition, the closing agreement requires that such plan be updated in quarterly filings with the IRS. The closing agreement is final and binding upon ALICO and the IRS; provided, however, that the agreement can be reopened in the event of malfeasance, fraud or a misrepresentation of a material fact, and is subject to change of law risk that occurs after the effective date of the closing agreement (with certain exceptions). In addition, the closing agreement provides that no legislative amendment to the 80/20 rule in Section 861(a) (1) (A) of the Code shall shorten the Deferral Period, regardless of when such amendment is enacted. ALICO expects that the plan it is required to deliver to the IRS may involve the transfer of businesses from certain of the foreign branches of ALICO to one or more existing or newly-formed foreign affiliates of ALICO; however, ALICO has not completed this plan. Due to both the timing of the creation of the plan and the uncertainty related to the plan and its execution, no reasonable estimation of the amount of expenses related to its creation and execution can be made at this time. Additionally, no range of amounts is estimable due to these uncertainties. As a result of the IRS ruling, the Company released its contingency reserve of $37 million in the first quarter of 2010.
2004-75
See Note 1, Sale of ALICO to MetLife, Inc.
 
There can be no assurance that ALICO will achieve the plan presented to the IRS within the required time frame of December 31, 2013 because of regulatory approvals and other requirements. Failure to achieve the plan timely could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future revenues or expenses or both.
 
 
The Company had guarantees outstanding of $44 million and $47 million supporting real estate deposit returns and future rental payments as of May 31, 2010 and November 30, 2009, respectively. The majority of these guarantees expire in time periods longer than five years.
 
Effective July 1, 2009, the Company transferred the insurance business and the assets and liabilities held by its Taiwan Branch to an affiliate, American International Assurance Company (Bermuda) Ltd., ("AIA (B)"). These businesses had been historically managed by AIA (B). As part of this business transfer, the Company and AIA
Table of Contents
 
 
(B) are jointly and severally liable for all debts of the Taiwan Branch for a period of two years from the closing date, i.e. until July 1, 2011. Should AIA (B) fail to meet the debt and policy obligations related to this transferred business, the Company is legally bound to meet those obligations. The Company believes the probability of this occurring to be remote since the assets associated with the transferred business adequately fund the liability obligations as determined by local regulations.
 
 
Share-based Employee Compensation Plans
 
  In December 2009, AIG introduced new compensation awards which were granted to the Company's employees. For the six months May 31, 2010, the Company recorded an expense and an obligation of $13 million related to these new awards.
Alico employees participate in AIG employee awards.
 
Liability Awards
 
In December 2009, certain highly compensated employees were granted various share-based grants, including restricted stock units, linked to AIG's stock, but which require cash settlement. Cash settled awards are recorded as a liability until the final payout is made or the award is replaced with a stock-settled award. At the end of each reporting period, any unsettled award or unvested Restricted Stock Unit ("RSU") is re-measured based on the change in fair value of one share of AIG Common Stock and the liability and expense are adjusted accordingly.
 
Stock Salary
 
Stock salary is determined as a dollar amount through the date that salary is earned, accrues at the same time or times as the salary would otherwise be paid in cash and vests immediately upon grant. Certain ALICO executive officers received Stock salary awards in fiscal first quarter 2010, which are settled on either the first or third anniversary of the grant in accordance with the terms of an employee's award. These stock salary grants, issued in December 2009, were awarded retroactively to January 1, 2009, in the form of immediately vested RSUs, and the number of units awarded was based on the value of AIG common stock on the grant date. The RSUs will be settled in cash based on the value of AIG common stock on the applicable settlement date.
 
Long-Term Performance Units (LTPUs)
 
In May, 2010, the stock salary program was replaced by LTPUs. Under LTPU, certain ALICO executive officers will receive cash payments to be determined by the value of certain AIG issued hybrid securities as well as AIG common stocks. The value of one LTPU was set at $1,000 on the grant date and will be remeasured until settlement.
 
Troubled Asset Relief Program ("TARP") RSU's and Other Long Term Incentive Plans
 
TARP RSUs were granted to ALICO employees on December 28, 2009 based on achievement of objective performance metrics and, when vested and transferable, these RSUs will be settled in 25 percent installments in proportion to AIG's reduction of its TARP obligations. These TARP RSUs vest on the second anniversary of the grant and are subject to transferability restrictions for an additional year after vesting. As a result, TARP RSUs will be proportionally cash-settled three years from the date of grant for vested participants provided that AIG settles at least 25 percent of its TARP obligation.
 
Additionally, certain employees were awarded a fixed number of RSU's in March 2010, for which the Company started to record an expense and an obligation during fiscal first quarter 2010. These RSU's will be subsequently cash-settled in March 2013 based on the value of AIG Common Stock on the settlement date.
Table of Contents
 
 
Employee Benefits
 
During the six months ended May 31, 2010 and 2009, ALICO contributed $8 million and $15 million to its sponsored defined benefit pension plans, respectively, and paid $13 million and $14 million in direct benefit payments to participants, respectively. Alico expects to contribute $10 million to its sponsored defined benefit pension plans and to pay $16 million in direct benefit payments to participants during the remainder of fiscal year 2010. These estimates are subject to change since contribution decisions are affected by various factors, including ALICO's liquidity, plan asset dispositions, market performance, and management's discretion.
non-U.S. ALICO
non-U.S. ALICO
 
 
Investments
 
As of May 31, 2010, and November 30, 2009, the Company has investments in related parties of $540 million and $725 million, respectively, which is composed of the following:
 
 
The Company has securities issued by another subsidiary of AIG, Castle Trust, which securitizes third-party airplane leases. This investment was recorded at fair value of $127 million as of May 31, 2010, and $106 million as of November 30, 2009, resulting in a cumulative unrealized loss of $30 million and $82 million as of May 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Interest income of $4 million and $5 million relating to this investment was recognized for the six month periods ended May 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company reported Accumulated other comprehensive income of $30 million and $7 million for the six months ended May 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
 
At November 30, 2009, the Company owned 3,169,589 shares (2.3 percent) of the common stock of AIG. This investment was recorded at fair value of $90 million as of November 30, 2009. On March 24, 2010, the Company sold all of its AIG common shares to its parent, AIG, for $110 million or $34.70 per share, which was based on the volume-weighted average price over a business period between March 10, 2010 and March 23, 2010, as quoted by Bloomberg L.P. The Company recognized a net realized capital gain of $108 million on the sale for the six months ended May 31, 2010. No dividends were paid on these shares during the six months ended May 31, 2010 and 2009.
ten-day
 
 
The Company has a loan receivable from AIG Funding Inc., which has an interest rate of 1.65 percent and matures on April 16, 2013. The balance of this loan is $165 million as of May 31, 2010 and $174 million as of November 30, 2009.
 
The Company entered into a loan receivable agreement denominated in Polish zlotys with AIG Bank Polska S.A., a subsidiary of AIG. The principal amount outstanding on the loan as of November 30, 2009, was $23 million and was scheduled to mature in 2014. Annual interest rate on the loan was 7.85 percent until November 28, 2009, after which interest rate was reset and based on the one-year Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate ("WIBOR") plus 1.15 percent until final settlement. In the fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2010, under an early payment provision, AIG Bank Polska S.A made a full settlement of the loan balance.
 
The Company entered into an agreement with an affiliate, AIG Kabushiki Kaisha on January 1, 2007, to loan its excess cash to AIG Kabushiki Kaisha at short-term rates tied to the one-week Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate (TIBOR) plus 0.25 percent. The principal amount was settled in full during the fiscal quarter ending February 28, 2010. The principal amount outstanding on the loan as of November 30, 2009 was $29 million.
Table of Contents
 
 
The Company had a loan receivable of $6 million with AIG Global Real Estate as of November 30, 2009. This loan was an loan with an interest rate of 3.50 percent. The loan was settled in full during the fiscal quarter ending February 28, 2010.
18-month
 
The Company had total loans receivable of $165 million as of May 31, 2010 and $232 million as of November 30, 2009, as listed above. Interest income on these loans was $2 million for each of the six month periods ended May 31, 2010 and 2009.
 
 
 
As part of its risk management program, the Company routinely enters into interest rate and foreign currency swaps with AIGFP, an entity that is controlled by AIG. As part of the closing conditions associated with the definitive agreement to sell ALICO to MetLife, ALICO has unwound and settled all remaining uncollateralized interest rate swaps and foreign exchange swaps with AIGFP in May 2010. The notional amounts and fair value of these related-party transactions, including the AIG foreign currency indemnification discussed below, are presented in the following table for the periods ended May 31, 2010 and November 30, 2009.
 
 
 
 
The Company is a party to an Indemnity Agreement with AIG, under which AIG indemnifies the Company against foreign currency losses on approximately 105 billion Japanese yen (approximately 1.2 billion U.S dollars as of May 31, 2010) resulting from unfavorable exchange rate movements against the U.S. dollar. This arrangement serves as an economic hedge against a portfolio of U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturity investments held by ALICO's Japan branch. However, it has not been designated as a hedge for accounting purposes. The fair value of this arrangement, which has been accounted for as a derivative instrument and is included in Foreign exchange contracts in the table above, was an asset of $212 million as of May 31, 2010 and $263 million as of November 30, 2009. The income recorded by the Company for this transaction is not taxable.
Table of Contents
 
 
As a result of the related party derivative transactions, the Company recorded the following gains (losses) for the six months ended May 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
 
 
Related Party Security Lending
 
The Company participated in a security lending program managed by an affiliate, AIG Global Security Lending. The lending program was terminated and all positions were settled in March 2010 and as of May 31, 2010, there were no assets or liabilities remaining in the program. The fair value of assets in the security lending program as of November 30, 2009, was $305 million and the fair value of assets received as collateral was $244 million, excluding $69 million in letters of credit received as collateral.
 
There were no fees paid or payable to affiliates in 2010 or 2009 for acting as an agent in securities lending transactions.
 
Related Party Reinsurance Agreements
 
In the ordinary course of business, ALICO places reinsurance with other insurance companies in order to limit the potential for losses arising from large risks and to provide additional capacity for future growth as part of its risk management program. A number of these reinsurance agreements are with affiliates.
 
In addition to the related party reinsurance agreement, in 2004, ALICO entered into an agreement with RGA Reinsurance Company (RGA), a third-party reinsurer company, to reinsure certain Single Premium Deferred Annuity policies written in Japan. Independent of ALICO entering into this agreement, AIG entered into an agreement with RGA to provide investment performance guarantees with respect to the return on funds withheld by ALICO pursuant to the reinsurance treaty between ALICO and RGA. As of March 31, 2010, the agreement was terminated as part of the closing conditions associated with the definitive agreement to sell ALICO to MetLife
(See Note 1, Sale of ALICO to MetLife Inc.).
 
Long-term debt
 
The Company's long-term debt consists primarily of borrowings from affiliates. The Company's balance of loans and notes payable was approximately $1.0 billion as of May 31, 2010 and November 30, 2009. The Company recognized related party interest expense on borrowings of $20 million and $3 million for the six months ended May 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
General Corporate Services and Costs
 
The Company receives a number of services from AIG. Amounts expensed by the Company to AIG for these services and costs were $10 million and $13 million for the six months ended May 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Additional allocated services and costs were not and will not be reimbursed by the Company to AIG. These
Table of Contents
 
 
unreimbursed allocated costs were $38 million and $36 million for the six months ended May 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The total cost of these reimbursed and unreimbursed general corporate services and costs totaled $48 million and $49 million for the six months ended May 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Related Party Services and Cost-Sharing Agreements
 
In addition to the general corporate services provided by the Parent, the Company has a number of various management, service contracts and cost-sharing agreements with other AIG subsidiaries. For the six months ended May 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company recognized net costs of $65 million and $101 million, respectively, from affiliates for these services, which are included mainly in Policy acquisition and other expenses.
 
Payment of Outstanding Balances Due from Corporate Services and Related Party Services
 
The Company generally settles its payables to and receivables from related parties in cash, although in some instances agreements might provide for right of offset against other related obligations. As of May 31, 2010, the Company had a net receivable of $61 million and $60 million in Other assets as of May 31, 2010 and November 30, 2009 respectively, from transactions resulting from general corporate services and costs and related party services and cost-sharing agreements.
 
 
The Company generates substantially all of its income from foreign branches and subsidiaries. Income generated by branch operations is subject to tax currently in both the foreign and U.S. jurisdictions. Income generated by subsidiary operations is taxed currently in the foreign jurisdiction and taxed in the U.S. either currently if it is considered U.S. "subpart F" income or in later years when the income is distributed to the U.S. The Company records a deferred tax liability for U.S. income tax on undistributed income of its foreign subsidiaries when it no longer plans to permanently reinvest the income with the subsidiary.
 
Actual income tax expense from operations differs from the statutory U.S. federal amount computed by applying the federal income tax rate due to the following:
 
 
During the six month period ended May 31, 2010, the Company revised its estimate of the tax effects related to the AIG restructuring and increased the tax basis in its net assets. As a result, the Company recorded an additional deferred tax asset of $175 million, offset by a $137 million increase in the valuation allowance. In addition, due to certain contractual obligations associated with AIG's sale of ALICO to MetLife, the Company also recorded an additional $90 million valuation allowance. All of these adjustments were recorded directly to Shareholder's net investment. The net impact of the adjustments was a $52 million decrease to Shareholder's net investment.


