FILE:AIG/AIG-8K-20100715154843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
(b) On July 14, 2010, Mr. Harvey Golub resigned from the Board of Directors of American International Group, Inc. ("AIG"). Mr. Robert S. Miller has succeeded Mr. Golub as Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Mr. Golub's letter of resignation is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Via Hand Delivery
July 14, 2010
Mr. George Miles WQED Multimedia President and CEO 4802 Fifth Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Dear George:
     I am writing to you as Chairman of AIG's Governance Committee to announce my resignation as Chairman of the Board and as a Director of AIG.
     Bob Benmosche has informed the Board that he believes our working relationship as Chairman and CEO to be ineffective and unsustainable. At this point, I view asking the Board to choose between us would be an abdication of my responsibility to lead. Consequently, I'm resigning for the simple reason I believe it is easier to replace a chairman than a CEO  particularly a company in the midst of two major activities: (1) a major corporate restructuring, and (2) development of an exit plan from government control, both of which involve executing a long list of difficult tasks.
     I appreciate the support I've received from my fellow Directors and their desire to have me remain as Chairman. I'm proud of all of you and the work we have accomplished in moving AIG from a company being dissolved to one on the cusp of having an implementable strategy to pay back the government and stand on its own as a viable and independent insurance company.
     I wish all of you the best of luck. It has been my privilege to work with you.


