FILE:AIG/AIG-8K-20110310171857.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On March 10, 2011, American International Group, Inc. delivered a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) offering to repay the loan by the FRBNY to, and to purchase all of the assets of, Maiden Lane II LLC.
A copy of the letter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(d)
Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
3/9/2011
Maiden Lane II LLC c/o Federal Reserve Bank of New York 33 Liberty Street New York, New York 10045
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as Controlling Party and Senior Lender 33 Liberty Street New York, New York 10045
Re:
Offer to Repay the Loan by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to, and to Purchase All of the Assets of, Maiden Lane II
          American International Group, Inc. (AIG) hereby submits an offer to purchase all of the residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS) owned by Maiden Lane II for $15.7 billion in cash in accordance with the provisions of the attached term sheet.
          AIG believes this offer is in the best interest of the U.S. Taxpayers, the U.S. Government and AIG itself. If accepted, this offer will substantially reduce the amount of outstanding government assistance to AIG; help AIG ensure that the U.S. government recoups all of the money it has invested in AIG; and guarantee that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) earns a profit on its interest in Maiden Lane II while reducing the amount of AIG-related assets on the FRBNY's balance sheet.
          On January 14, 2011, AIG completed its recapitalization plan with the U.S. Government when it:
          (a) repaid in full the FRBNY revolving credit facility;
 
          In February, AIG paid the U.S. Treasury Department $2.2 billion from the sale of AIG Star Life Insurance and AIG Edison Life Insurance to repay and retire Preferred Interests in the ALICO SPV. Earlier this week, AIG paid the U.S. Treasury Department $6.9 billion from the proceeds of the sale of securities of MetLife, Inc., originally acquired by AIG in connection with the sale of ALICO, to repay and retire Preferred Interests in the ALICO and AIA SPVs.
          As of the date of this letter, in addition to the U.S. Treasury Department's 92 percent common equity stake in AIG, AIG has an outstanding balance of AIA Preferred Interests to be repaid to the U.S. Government of approximately $11 billion. However, AIG's outstanding assistance from the U.S. Government totals approximately $39 billion as a result of a $2 billion undrawn line of credit and an additional $26 billion associated with the Maiden Lane II and III transactions.
          AIG seeks to further reduce its outstanding U.S. Government assistance by repurchasing the assets of Maiden Lane II. Maiden Lane II was formed to help AIG alleviate the liquidity challenges in its securities lending program by purchasing from AIG approximately $20.5 billion of RMBS. Since then, the conditions that necessitated Maiden Lane II in the first place have been resolved. Today AIG is a stable company, with a bright outlook and strong liquidity, positioned to match the Maiden Lane II assets with appropriate, longer-term insurance liabilities, not shorter-term liabilities.
          AIG is uniquely positioned to purchase the Maiden Lane II assets as we currently hold the subordinated interest in Maiden Lane II. Maiden Lane II is structured such that the FRBNY is the senior lender, AIG is the subordinated lender, and the FRBNY owns a majority of the residual equity interest with AIG owning a minority residual equity interest. At the time that Maiden Lane II was formed, AIG's $1 billion subordinated loan to Maiden Lane II represented the first loss position, such that if the value of the Maiden Lane II assets fell and Maiden Lane II was unable to pay its obligations, AIG suffered the initial losses. Since the original transaction was executed in December 2008, Maiden Lane II has paid the FRBNY interest incurred on the senior loans and reduced the principal balance of the senior loans. In addition, the value of the Maiden Lane II assets has increased. If the FRBNY accepts this offer, the loans that the FRBNY made to Maiden Lane II will be repaid in full, with interest, and the FRBNY will realize a profit of approximately $1.5 billion on its residual equity interest in Maiden Lane II. In addition, the total outstanding assistance to AIG from the U.S. Government will be reduced by approximately $13 billion to a total of approximately $26 billion.
 
          U.S. Taxpayers and the U.S. Government are best served by allowing AIG to purchase the Maiden Lane II assets now. This purchase transaction will accelerate the time period within which the U.S. Government will be able to terminate all of its assistance to AIG. AIG is offering to purchase all of the approximately 800 RMBS owned by Maiden Lane II in a single transaction and AIG will close this transaction promptly after the FRBNY accepts the offer. After closing, the FRBNY can remove Maiden Lane II from its balance sheet.
          If the FRBNY does not accept AIG's offer (i) the U.S. Treasury Department, as owner of approximately 92 percent of AIG's common stock, will not benefit from the enhanced investment income that AIG will receive as a result of owning the assets and (ii) the FRBNY will need to retain the Maiden Lane II transaction on its balance sheet indefinitely. This scenario could potentially slow down the efforts of the U.S. Treasury Department to sell its AIG common stock and potentially decrease the proceeds received for the stock.
          AIG has prepared extensively over the last year to make this offer and has conducted significant research in order to fully analyze the incremental benefits and risks of purchasing these securities. The organization has invested heavily in risk management with the hiring of professionals with backgrounds in mortgage risk management and development of required infrastructure and analytics. AIG anticipates that more than 98 percent of the Maiden Lane II securities will be classified as NAIC 1 securities by AIG's insurance company regulators, a classification that is assigned to obligations where credit risk is at its lowest relative to book value. At the proposed purchase price, the Maiden Lane II securities have an attractive risk/return profile to AIG. In addition, AIG has extensively evaluated the risk in the portfolio and has determined it is within AIG's overall risk tolerance for residential mortgage risk. AIG has discussed the potential for this transaction with its rating agencies and AIG does not expect the transaction to have a material effect on its ratings. It will, however, further improve AIG's current rating agency fixed charge and interest coverage metrics. It will also better balance the relative liquidity position of the holding company and its insurance subsidiaries. AIG has set aside the cash necessary to pay the purchase price in full and has strong liquidity reserves after giving effect to the transaction.
          AIG looks forward to receiving your response to this offer. AIG reserves the right to change or withdraw this offer at any time.
 
     Pursuant to that certain Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 12, 2008 (as amended to date, the ""), by and among the sellers party thereto (such entities, the ""), Maiden Lane II LLC (""), as buyer, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the ""), as controlling party, American International Group, Inc. ("") and AIG Securities Lending Corp., as AIG agent, ML II purchased from the Original Sellers tranches of residential mortgage-backed securities. Pursuant to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of December 12, 2008 (as amended to date, the "") among ML II, as Borrower, the FRBNY, as Controlling Party and as Senior Lender, and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Collateral Agent, the FRBNY made a loan to ML II to finance the purchase of the assets (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Credit Agreement and if not defined therein, the meaning ascribed thereto in the Asset Purchase Agreement.
Asset Purchase Agreement
Original Sellers
ML II
FRBNY
AIG Inc.
Credit Agreement
Senior Loan
     Set forth below is a summary of proposed terms under which AIG Inc. would propose to enter into a Purchase Agreement (the "") with ML II and FRBNY, as Senior Lender and Controlling Party, pursuant to which one or more Buyers (as defined below) would purchase from ML II all of the assets (other than cash) owned by ML II as of the Cut-Off Date set forth below (each such asset, individually, an "", and collectively, the "").
AIG Inc. PA
Asset
Assets
 
 
 
 
The undersigned hereby accept and agree to the foregoing terms. AIG reserves the right to change or withdraw this term sheet at any time prior to its acceptance by the FRBNY and ML II.
     Date: March ___, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


