FILE:AIG/AIG-8K-20111024172334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On October 24, 2011, American International Group, Inc. issued a press release announcing the commencement of an offer to exchange new senior notes for specified series of its outstanding junior subordinated debentures. The new notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws. Therefore, the new notes may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and any applicable state securities laws.
A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated into this Item 8.01 by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact: Mark Herr (News Media)
(O) 212-770-3505 (C) 718-685-9348
Liz Werner (Investment Community) 212-770-7074
NEW YORK, October 24, 2011  American International Group, Inc. (NYSE: AIG) today commenced an offer (the "Exchange Offer") to exchange new senior notes ("New Notes") for specified series of its outstanding Junior Subordinated Debentures. The Early Participation Date for the Exchange Offer is 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on November 8, 2011 and the Expiration Date is 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on November 22, 2011 (in each case, subject to extension). The complete terms of the Exchange Offer are set forth in an offer to exchange, dated today (the "Offer to Exchange"), and, as applicable, the related letter of transmittal, which will be distributed solely to eligible holders. AIG is conducting the Exchange Offer to improve its financial flexibility and reduce its overall indebtedness by exchanging the Junior Subordinated Debentures for New Notes with a lower principal amount. AIG also expects the Exchange Offer to improve its interest expense and fixed charge coverage metrics.
AIG is offering to exchange new Dollar Notes due November 15, 2037 (the "New Dollar Notes") for its outstanding Series A-1 and Series A-6 Junior Subordinated Debentures, new Euro Notes due November 15, 2017 (the "New Euro Notes") for its outstanding Series A-3 Junior Subordinated Debentures and new Sterling Notes due November 15, 2017 (the "New Sterling Notes") for its outstanding Series A-2 and Series A-8 Junior Subordinated Debentures. The maximum aggregate principal amount of Junior Subordinated Debentures to be accepted in the Exchange Offer (converted, in the case of debentures denominated in euros or pounds sterling, into dollars as specified in the Offer to Exchange) is $2.5 billion (the "Maximum Exchange Amount"). AIG reserves the right, subject to applicable law, to increase the Maximum Exchange Amount or otherwise amend the terms of the Exchange Offer.
 
The table below summarizes certain terms of the Exchange Offer:
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Exchange Offer, AIG will accept for exchange the Junior Subordinated Debentures tendered in the Exchange Offer in accordance with their "Acceptance Priority Level" as set forth in the table above, with Acceptance Priority Level 1 being the highest priority. All Junior Subordinated Debentures that are tendered for exchange prior to the Early Participation Date will have priority over any Junior Subordinated Debentures that are tendered for exchange after the Early Participation Date. Accordingly, if the principal amount of Junior Subordinated Debentures tendered for exchange prior to the Early Participation Date equals or exceeds the Maximum Exchange Amount, no Junior Subordinated Debentures tendered for exchange after the Early Participation Date will be accepted for exchange (even if they are Acceptance Priority Level 1). Additionally, Junior Subordinated Debentures may be tendered in any authorized denominations, but AIG will not accept any individual tender of a series of Junior Subordinated Debentures in a principal amount less than $200,000 in the case of the Dollar Debentures, 150,000 in the case of the Euro Debentures and 150,000 in the case of the Sterling Debentures.
This press release, including the following, is qualified in its entirety by the Offer to Exchange, and, where applicable, the related letter of transmittal.
The following is a brief summary of certain key elements of the planned Exchange Offer:
 
If and when issued, the New Notes will not have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or any state securities laws. The New Notes may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or to or for the benefit of any U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. AIG will enter into an exchange offer and registration rights agreement with respect to the New Notes.
The Exchange Offer is only made, and copies of the Exchange Offer documents, will only be made available to a holder of Junior Subordinated Debentures who has confirmed its eligibility, including, among other things, its status as a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act or that it is a person other than a "U.S. person" as defined in Rule 902 under the Securities Act. Once the Exchange Offer has been commenced, holders of Dollar Debentures who desire a copy of the eligibility letter may contact Global Bondholder Services Corporation in the United States toll-free at 866-488-1500 or at (212) 430-3774 (banks and brokerage firms). Holders of Euro and Sterling Debentures may contact Lucid Issuer Services Limited at +44 20 7704 0880.
This news release does not constitute an offer or an invitation by AIG to participate in the Exchange Offer in any jurisdiction in which it is unlawful to make such an offer or solicitation in such jurisdiction.
 
Certain statements in this press release, including those describing the completion of the Exchange Offer, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are not historical facts but instead represent only AIG's belief regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside AIG's control. It is possible that actual results will differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results indicated in these statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from those in the forward-looking statements are discussed throughout Part I, Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIG for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, in Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of AIG for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 and in Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of AIG for the year ended December 31, 2010.


