FILE:AIG/AIG-8K-20110124160723.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 24, 2011, American International Group, Inc. (AIG) issued a press release reporting information relating to the continued service of Mr. Robert Benmosche as President and Chief Executive Officer. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated into this Item 7.01 by reference.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01. Other Events.
As previously disclosed by AIG, AIG's President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert Benmosche, has been diagnosed with cancer and has been undergoing treatment for his disease. Following a briefing by a physician fully aware of Mr. Benmosche's medical condition, test results, and prognosis, the AIG Board of Directors, while in matters of cancer circumstances can change, anticipates that Mr. Benmosche should be able to serve in his role as AIG President and CEO over the next twelve to eighteen months.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEW YORK, January 24, 2011  American International Group Inc. (AIG) announced today that Robert H. Benmosche, AIG President and Chief Executive Officer, has received a health prognosis such that Mr. Benmosche is expected to be fully able to remain in his position at AIG on his previously announced timetable.
"My doctors have given me an encouraging prognosis as I continue to undergo treatment for cancer," Mr. Benmosche said. "As we all know, nothing in life is certain, but given that I've responded very well to my treatment, my doctors believe I can continue to apply the same commitment and energy to AIG over the next twelve to 18 months. I feel good, and I am delighted to tell you that I remain absolutely committed to continue working with the wonderful team of people here at AIG on that timetable. We are all very focused on positioning AIG for future growth and enhanced profitability as we continue to make substantial progress on repaying all of our government obligations  and, we continue to believe, at a profit. Most likely, I'll return to my retirement sometime in 2012."
Following a briefing by a physician fully aware of Mr. Benmosche's medical condition, test results, and prognosis, the AIG Board of Directors, while in matters of cancer circumstances can change, anticipates that Mr. Benmosche should be able to serve in his role as AIG President and CEO on his previously announced timetable.
"Every member of the AIG Board of Directors is thrilled with Bob's news," said Robert S. "Steve" Miller, Chairman of the AIG Board of Directors. "Bob has worked as hard as ever over the last several months, and, with the management team, shepherded AIG through its latest success: completely repaying the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and vastly simplifying the government's investments in AIG.
"We have a very strong management team," Mr. Miller said. "The Board of course has established a succession planning process, and we remain focused on taking all the right steps to ensure management continuity. The Board is conducting an active CEO succession planning process, and we are committed to effecting an orderly leadership transition at the appropriate time."
 
January 24, 2011 Page two
AIG Updates Health Condition of CEO Bob Benmosche
The Board of Directors also has agreed that its CEO succession contingency plan remains the same as announced on October 27, 2010: in the event that Mr. Benmosche becomes unwilling or unable to continue to effectively serve in his current role, Mr. Miller would step in as interim CEO of AIG for as long as it takes to identify and select a long-term replacement for Mr. Benmosche.
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect AIG's current views with respect to future events and are based on assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Except for AIG's ongoing obligation to disclose material information as required by federal securities laws, it does not intend to provide an update concerning any future revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date hereof.
American International Group, Inc. (AIG) is a leading international insurance organization with operations in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIG companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through one of the most extensive worldwide property-casualty networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading providers of life insurance and retirement services in the United States. AIG common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the stock exchanges in Ireland and Tokyo.


