FILE:AIG/AIG-8K-20110209070912.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
On February 1, 2011, American International Group, Inc. (AIG) completed the previously announced sale of its Japanese life insurance subsidiaries, AIG Star Life Insurance Co. Ltd (Star) and AIG Edison Life Insurance Company (Edison), to Prudential Financial, Inc. for total consideration of $4.8 billion, consisting of $4.2 billion in cash and $.6 billion in the assumption of third-party debt.
Under the terms of the Guarantee, Pledge and Proceeds Application Agreement, dated as of January 14, 2011 (the Intercompany Pledge Agreement), between AIG and certain subsidiaries, AIG is required to use all net cash proceeds of the Star and Edison sale to repay loans to AIG (the SPV Intercompany Loans) made by its subsidiaries AIA Aurora LLC (the AIA SPV), a special-purpose vehicle that holds AIG's remaining shares in AIA Group Limited, and ALICO Holdings LLC (the ALICO SPV and, together with the AIA SPV, the SPVs), a special-purpose vehicle that holds the MetLife, Inc. securities that AIG received in the sale of American Life Insurance Company. In turn, the SPVs are generally required to distribute amounts received as repayment of the SPV Intercompany Loans to the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the Department of the Treasury), which holds preferred interests in each of the SPVs (SPV Preferred Interests). These arrangements are part of the recapitalization of AIG described in more detail in AIG's Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 14, 2011.
On February 8, 2011, American International Group, Inc. (AIG) entered into a letter agreement with the Department of the Treasury (the Letter Agreement), pursuant to which AIG will be permitted to retain $2 billion of the net cash proceeds from the sale of Star and Edison. The $2 billion will be used to support the capital of Chartis, Inc. and its subsidiaries in connection with the reserve strengthening described in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K. The remainder of the net cash proceeds is expected to be used to repay the Department of the Treasury's SPV Preferred Interests.
A copy of the Letter Agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference.
Section 8  Other Events
On February 9, 2011, AIG issued a press release announcing that it expects to record a $4.1 billion charge, net of $446 million in discount and loss sensitive business premium adjustments, for the fourth quarter of 2010 to strengthen loss reserves in its Chartis property and casualty insurance subsidiaries.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated into this Item 8.01 by reference.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
February 8, 2011
American International Group, Inc. 180 Maiden Lane New York, NY 10038 Attention: General Counsel
AIA Aurora LLC 180 Maiden Lane New York, NY 10038
ALICO Holdings LLC 180 Maiden Lane New York, NY 10038
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to the Guarantee, Pledge and Proceeds Application Agreement, dated as of January 14, 2011 (as amended, the ""), among American International Group, Inc. (""), the Guarantors party thereto and AIA Aurora LLC and ALICO Holdings LLC, as the Secured Parties. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the GPPA.
GPPA
AIG
     The Rights Holder, on behalf of the Secured Parties, AIG and the Secured Parties hereby agree as follows:
 
     For the avoidance of doubt, all Net Proceeds other than the Star-Edison Proceeds and any other amounts paid on account of the Secured Obligations shall continue to be applied in accordance with Section 4 of the GPPA unless otherwise agreed by the Rights Holder on behalf of the Secured Parties.
     Sections 18 (Notices), 21 (Amendments and Waivers), 22 (Choice of Law), 23 (Waiver of Jury Trial), 26 (Counterparts) and 28 (Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process) of the GPPA are incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth herein.
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and returning an executed counterpart of this letter.
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEW YORK, February 9, 2011  American International Group, Inc. (AIG) announced today that, following completion of its annual comprehensive loss reserve review, it expects to record a $4.1 billion charge, net of $446 million in discount and loss sensitive business premium adjustments, for the fourth quarter of 2010 to strengthen loss reserves in its Chartis property and casualty insurance subsidiaries.
In addition, AIG announced that it has entered into a letter agreement with the U.S. Department of the Treasury permitting AIG to retain $2.0 billion of the net cash proceeds from the recently closed sale of AIG Star Life Insurance Co. Ltd and AIG Edison Life Insurance Company. AIG will use these proceeds, and other funds, to support the capital of Chartis insurance subsidiaries in connection with the loss reserve strengthening. As a result, AIG expects that the Chartis insurance companies' statutory surplus will remain largely unaffected.
The strengthening to Chartis loss reserves reflects adverse development on prior accident years in classes of business with long reporting tails. Four classes  asbestos, excess casualty, excess workers' compensation, and primary workers' compensation  comprise approximately 80 percent of the total charge. The majority of the strengthening relates to development in accident years 2005 and prior.
The total reserve strengthening represents approximately six percent of AIG's total general insurance net liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expense of $63.7 billion reported at September 30, 2010.
At the end of every year, Chartis conducts a comprehensive review of its net loss reserves, which represent the accumulation of estimates for reported losses (case basis reserves) and provisions for losses incurred but not reported (IBNR), both reduced by applicable reinsurance recoverable and the discount for future investment income, where permitted. These detailed reviews are conducted for each class of business for each subsidiary, and thus consist of hundreds of individual analyses.
 
The purpose of these reviews is to confirm the appropriateness of the reserves carried by each of the individual subsidiaries, and therefore of AIG's overall carried reserves. With the assistance of third party actuaries, AIG's actuarial teams assess the potential implications of new data and new and emerging trends, a process that allows for better, more refined analyses and judgments regarding the level of estimated loss reserves.
As a result of the 2010 year end loss reserve review, AIG strengthened loss reserves approximately $4.6 billion before discount (approximately $4.1 billion net of discount) primarily in four classes of business as follows:
 
In addition to the above classes, AIG also strengthened reserves in its construction/commercial risk and national accounts classes of business by approximately $820 million before discount. The construction and commercial risks, while separate classes of business, consist primarily of certain primary workers' compensation and general liability coverages, and thus the experience in the workers' compensation lines identified in the distinct classes above also affected these lines. For the 2010 year end loss reserve review of the construction and commercial risks classes, AIG determined it was appropriate to modify its loss development assumptions to provide greater weight to emerging adverse experience in the more recent accident years and increased its loss reserves by approximately $420 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. For the national accounts business, the 2010 year end review of Chartis loss data led to the conclusion that reserves for older accident years required strengthening. As a result, reserves for this class of business were strengthened by approximately $400 million. Various other classes comprised the remaining $240 million of reserve strengthening.
Partially offsetting the reserve strengthening was $446 million of loss reserve discount and loss sensitive business premium adjustments, including approximately $120 million of reserve discount for the asbestos class; approximately $300 million of reserve discount for the various workers' compensation classes discussed above; and an additional premium accrual of $26 million on certain loss sensitive policies.
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect AIG's current views with respect to future events and are based on assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including completion of the year end audit process. Except for AIG's ongoing obligation to disclose material information as required by federal securities laws, it does not intend to provide an update concerning any future revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date hereof.
American International Group, Inc. (AIG) is a leading international insurance organization with operations in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIG companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through one of the most extensive worldwide property-casualty networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading providers of life insurance and retirement services in the United States. AIG common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the stock exchanges in Ireland and Tokyo.


