FILE:AIG/AIG-8K-20120410160432.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
On April 6, 2012, the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation issued a Determination Memorandum to American International Group, Inc. ("AIG") with respect to AIG's compensation of its top twenty-five most highly compensated employees (the "Covered Employees"), including named executive officers Robert H. Benmosche, Peter D. Hancock, David L. Herzog, William N. Dooley and Jay S. Wintrob.
The Determination Memorandum sets annual cash salary levels for the Covered Employees effective January 1, 2012, including cash salary levels for Messrs. Benmosche, Hancock, Herzog, Dooley and Wintrob of $3,000,000, $1,800,000, $495,000, $450,000 and $495,000, respectively. The Determination Memorandum also sets annual stock salary levels for the Covered Employees, to be granted in the form of immediately vested AIG restricted common stock or restricted stock units reflecting the value of AIG common stock. The Determination Memorandum sets annual stock salary levels for Messrs. Benmosche, Hancock, Herzog, Dooley and Wintrob of $7,500,000, $5,200,000, $4,734,000, $5,550,000 and $5,315,000, respectively. Stock salary will be subject to transfer or payment restrictions over a multi-year period. For Mr. Benmosche, restrictions will lapse on the fifth anniversary of the date of hire, and for Messrs. Hancock, Herzog, Dooley and Wintrob, the restrictions will lapse on one-third of the stock salary each year, beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant.
Some of the Covered Employees are also eligible under the Determination Memorandum to receive 2012 annual long-term incentive awards payable in long-term restricted stock if they achieve performance goals for 2012 and the grants are determined appropriate at that time in light of AIG's overall circumstances. The Determination Memorandum provides that Messrs. Hancock, Herzog and Wintrob are eligible for awards of up to $1,000,000, $1,071,000 and $1,190,000, respectively. Because Mr. Benmosche may retire before the end of the minimum two-year vesting period required by regulation for any long-term restricted stock he would earn for 2012, the Special Master revised Mr. Benmosche's compensation structure at AIG's request to keep his total annual direct compensation opportunity constant but to substitute stock salary for his long-term restricted stock award opportunity. A similar request was made by AIG and approved by the Special Master for Mr. Dooley.
The Determination Memorandum is included as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
Jeffrey J. Hurd, Esq.
Senior Vice President 
Human Resources and Communications
American International Group, Inc.
180 Maiden Lane
22
nd
Floor
New York, NY 10038-4925
 
Dear Mr. Hurd:
Pursuant to the Department of the Treasury's Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance,
1
the Office of the Special Master has completed its review of the 2012 compensation submission by American International Group, Inc. ("AIG"), on behalf of its senior executive officers and next 20 most highly compensated employees ("Covered Employees 1  25" or "Covered Employees"). Attached as is a determination memorandum (accompanied by and providing the determinations of the Office of the Special Master with respect to 2012 compensation for Covered Employees 1  25. 31 C.F.R.  30.16(a)(3)(i).
Annex A
Exhibits I
II)
The Interim Final Rule requires the Office of the Special Master to determine whether the compensation structure for each Covered Employee 1  25 "will or may result in payments that are inconsistent with the purposes of Section 111 of EESA or TARP,
2
or are otherwise contrary to the public interest" (as applied to Covered Employees of exceptional assistance recipients, the "public interest standard"). The Office of the Special Master must make such determinations by applying six principles: avoid incentives to take excessive risk, maximize the company's ability to repay the taxpayer, appropriately allocate the components of compensation, use performance-based compensation, employ pay structures and amounts that are consistent with those at comparable entities, and base pay on the employee's contribution to the value of the TARP recipient enterprise. These principles are discussed in further detail in Part III of
Id.
Id.
Annex A.
To apply the six principles and ensure that compensation structures satisfy the public interest standard, the Office of the Special Master developed practical guidelines ("guidelines"), which were identified in the determination letters issued by the Office of the Special Master on
 
October 22, 2009, March 23, 2010, and April 1, 2011, relating to 2009, 2010, and 2011 compensation, respectively.
3
Compensation in 2012 at the three remaining recipients of exceptional assistance must continue to comport with these guidelines, which generally include the following:
 
 
 
 
In applying the above guidelines, the Office of the Special Master has implemented certain restrictions on practices that present conflicting incentives. For example, Covered Employees are prohibited from engaging in any hedging or derivative transactions involving company stock that would undermine the long-term performance incentives created by the approved compensation structures.
Finally, the determinations of the Office of the Special Master take into account the requirements of the Interim Final Rule that generally apply to all TARP recipients whether or not they are subject to the jurisdiction of the Office of the Special Master: (a) prohibition of all bonuses and incentives, including cash bonuses and stock options (the only exception to the fixed-compensation-only rule is the ability to award a bonus in the form of long-term restricted stock that does not exceed one-third of compensation in the year of grant, has a minimum vesting period of two years and cannot be transferred by the employee, even if fully vested, earlier than
 
 
pursuant to a schedule that reflects the company's actual repayment of TARP obligations in 25% increments), (b) requirement of a "clawback" of any bonus that is later determined to have been awarded based on materially inaccurate performance criteria, (c) limitation of golden parachute payments, and (d) prohibition of tax gross-ups.
AIG's compensation submission generally is consistent with these important principles and guidelines, but certain modifications were necessary to ensure that compensation for AIG's Covered Employees 1  25 satisfies the public interest standard. The Office of the Special Master's determinations are described in detail in the attached determination memorandum.
Pursuant to the Interim Final Rule, AIG may, within 30 days of the date hereof, request in writing that the Office of the Special Master reconsider the determinations set forth in the determination memorandum. If AIG does not request reconsideration within 30 days, these initial determinations will be treated as final determinations.  30.16(c)(1).
Id.
 
Enclosures
 
 
The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ("EESA"), requires the Secretary of the Treasury to establish standards related to executive compensation and corporate governance for institutions receiving financial assistance under the Troubled Asset Relief Program ("TARP"). Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, 12 U.S.C. 5221 (2010). Through the Department of the Treasury's Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance (the "Rule"), the Secretary delegated to the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation (the "Office of the Special Master") responsibility for reviewing compensation structures of certain employees at institutions that received exceptional financial assistance under TARP ("Exceptional Assistance Recipients").
4
31 C.F.R.  30.16(a);  30.16(a)(3). For these employees, the Office of the Special Master must determine whether the compensation structure will or may result in payments "inconsistent with the purposes of Section 111 of EESA or TARP, or otherwise contrary to the public interest."  30.16(a)(3)(i).
id.
Id.
American International Group, Inc. ("AIG" or the "Company"), one of three remaining Exceptional Assistance Recipients, has submitted to the Office of the Special Master proposed 2012 compensation structures (the "Proposed Structures") for review pursuant to Section 30.16(a)(3)(i) of the Rule. These compensation structures apply to five employees that the Company has identified for 2012 as senior executive officers (the "Senior Executive Officers," or "SEOs") for purposes of the Rule, and 20 employees the Company has identified as among the most highly compensated employees of the Company for purposes of the Rule (the "Most Highly Compensated Employees," and, together with the SEOs, the "Covered Employees").
The Office of the Special Master has completed the review of the Company's Proposed Structures for the Covered Employees pursuant to the principles set forth in the Rule.  30.16(b)(1). This Determination Memorandum sets forth the determinations of the Office of the Special Master, pursuant to Section 30.16(a)(3)(i) of the Rule, with respect to the Covered Employees.
Id.
On June 15, 2009, the Department of the Treasury ("Treasury") promulgated the Rule, creating the Office of the Special Master and delineating its responsibilities. The Rule requires that each Exceptional Assistance Recipient submit proposed compensation structures for each Senior Executive Officer and Most Highly Compensated Employee. 31 C.F.R.  30.16(a)(3)(i).
 
 
 
On October 22, 2009, March 23, 2010, and April 1, 2011, in each case after reviewing submissions of proposed compensation structures and amounts from AIG, the Office of the Special Master issued determinations regarding AIG's compensation structures, and amounts potentially payable thereunder, for AIG's senior executive officers and certain most highly compensated employees (the "Prior Determinations"). The Prior Determinations were made in light of six principles defined in the Rule and discussed in Part III below (the "principles"), and proposed compensation structures for Covered Employees were modified as needed to ensure that compensation would not "result in payments that are inconsistent with the purposes of Section 111 of EESA or TARP, or are otherwise contrary to the public interest" (as applied to Covered Employees of Exceptional Assistance Recipients, the "public interest standard"). 31 C.F.R.  30.16(a)(3)(i). To apply the principles and ensure that compensation structures satisfy the public interest standard, the Office of the Special Master developed practical guidelines (the "guidelines"), which informed the Prior Determinations and are described in the cover letter accompanying this Determination Memorandum.
5
The Prior Determinations applied only to those individuals identified by the Company as subject to the Office of the Special Master's mandatory jurisdiction to review and approve compensation structures and payments, , for the period under review and only with respect to compensation for services provided to AIG for that period.
see id.
On January 3, 2012, the Office of the Special Master requested from each remaining Exceptional Assistance Recipient, including AIG, certain data and documentary information necessary to facilitate the Office of the Special Master's review of the Company's 2012 compensation structures. The request required AIG to submit data describing its proposed compensation structures, and the payments that would result from the proposals, concerning each Covered Employee.
In addition, the Rule authorizes the Office of the Special Master to request information from an Exceptional Assistance Recipient "under such procedures as the Special Master shall determine."  30.16(d). AIG was required to submit competitive market data indicating how the amounts payable under AIG's proposed compensation structures relate to the amounts paid to persons in similar positions or roles at similar entities (see Part IV below for a discussion of AIG's market data). AIG was also required to submit a range of documentation, including information related to proposed performance metrics, internal policies designed to curb excessive risk, and certain previously existing compensation plans and agreements.
Id.
AIG submitted this information to the Office of the Special Master on February 2, 2012. Following a preliminary review of the submission, on February 16, 2012, the Office of the Special Master determined that AIG's submission was substantially complete for purposes of the Rule.  30.16(a)(3)(i). The Office of the Special Master then commenced a formal review of AIG's proposed compensation structures for the Covered Employees. The Rule provides that the Office of the Special Master is required to issue a compensation determination within 60 days of receipt of a substantially complete submission.
Id.
Id.
 
 
 
The Office of the Special Master's review of the Company's proposals was aided by analysis from a number of internal and external sources, including:
 
 
 
 
 
The Office of the Special Master has also considered national and global developments in the regulation of executive compensation. In July 2010, Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), directing further regulation on incentive-based compensation. In early 2011, the FDIC and the SEC approved versions of a joint proposed rulemaking with five other agencies under the Dodd-Frank Act, mandating, among other things, the deferral of half of large banks' top executive bonuses.
6
The Office of the Special Master continues to monitor evolving standards for executive compensation.
The Office of the Special Master considered all the sources above, in light of the statutory and regulatory standards described in Part III below, when evaluating the Company's proposed compensation structures for the Covered Employees for 2012.
The Rule requires that the Office of the Special Master determine for each of the Covered Employees whether AIG's proposed compensation structure, including amounts payable or potentially payable under the compensation structure, "will or may result in payments that are inconsistent with the purposes of Section 111 of EESA or TARP, or are otherwise contrary to the public interest." 31 C.F.R.  30.16(a)(3). The Rule requires that, in making these compensation determinations, the Office of the Special Master shall apply six principles that are intended to be consistent with sound compensation practices appropriate for TARP recipients and to advance the purposes and considerations described in EESA, including the maximization of overall returns to the taxpayers of the United States and providing stability and preventing disruptions to financial markets. EESA, Pub. L. No. 110-343 2, 103 (2008). These principles are:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Rule provides that the Office of the Special Master shall have discretion to determine the appropriate weight or relevance of a particular principle depending on the facts and circumstances surrounding the compensation structure or payment for a particular employee.  30.16(b). To the extent two or more principles may appear inconsistent in a particular situation, the Rule requires that the Office of the Special Master exercise discretion in determining the relative weight to be accorded to each principle.
Id.
Id.
The Rule provides that the Office of the Special Master may, in the course of applying these principles, take into account other compensation structures and other compensation earned, accrued, or paid, including compensation and compensation structures that are not subject to the restrictions of Section 111 of EESA. For example, the Office of the Special Master may consider payments obligated to be made by the Company pursuant to certain legally binding rights under valid written employment contracts entered into prior to enactment of the statute and the accompanying Rule.  30.16(a)(3).
Id.
 
AIG has provided the Office of the Special Master with detailed information concerning its proposed 2012 compensation structures for the Covered Employees, including amounts proposed to be paid under the compensation structure for each Covered Employee.
AIG supported its proposal with detailed assessments of each Covered Employee's tenure and responsibilities at the Company and historical compensation structure. Fifteen of the employees listed as Covered Employees in 2011 remain on the list of Covered Employees for 2012, and ten employees are new entrants to the group.
The submission also included market data that, according to the Company, indicated that the amounts potentially payable to each employee were comparable to the compensation payable to persons in similar positions or roles at a "peer group" of entities selected by the Company. The following overview of the market data submitted by AIG is based on information supplied by the Company.
 
AIG's submission included market comparisons of total compensation levels for the Covered Employees provided by Johnson Associates, a boutique compensation consulting firm specializing in the financial services industry across a range of sectors. Johnson Associates routinely conducts similar analyses for banking, insurance and asset management clients, among others, and has extensive knowledge of market practices and levels. Johnson Associates' analysis (the "Report") reflected its independent views of market compensation levels for year-end 2011.
 
Johnson Associates indicated a significant divergence of incentive trends between financial services sectors during 2011. While media headlines focused primarily on significant decreases in pay at investment and commercial banks, compensation at insurance and asset management companies remained constant or increased in 2011. According to the Report, incentives at insurance and asset management firms are flat to up 5% versus 2010 levels, while investment and commercial banking pay is down. The positions of AIG's Covered Employees are most similar to roles at comparable insurance companies.
Johnson Associates conducted a comprehensive review to fairly determine current market rates for the responsibilities, size and scope of each Covered Employee's position as detailed in job descriptions and organizational charts. In determining market
compensation levels, Johnson Associates used proprietary data and public reference points
7
, as well as information gathered from surveys, industry contacts, and independent research. Generally, reference points included major global insurance companies, significant general financial services firms and asset management firms, as well as investment and commercial banks on an exception basis and/or as a broader reference point. Johnson Associates took care to ensure that the market data was not skewed by investment and commercial banking reference points or any other historically high-paying subset.
In accordance with its standard practice, for each Covered Employee, Johnson Associates focused on (a) the function and skills required by the position and (b) how similar attributes are compensated in the marketplace. Internal relationships between AIG roles, such as reporting lines, business size, scope of responsibilities and workplace location were also reviewed. Ultimately, final market compensation levels reflected a combination of objective data and informed judgment, including as to the quality and applicability of available information.
Generally, market compensation levels for the Covered Employees' positions are about flat to up 5% for year-end 2011. Importantly, while Johnson Associates believes market compensation will increase in 2012, this was not reflected in the 2011 market data on which AIG based its 2012 total compensation proposals. These proposals would place the Covered Employees, as a whole, around the 48th percentile
(i., slightly below median) of compensation for persons in similar roles at similar entities.
e.
8
As would be expected, market position varies by individual based on factors such as length of service, performance, criticality and expected future contribution. For individual Covered Employees, AIG's proposed 2012 total compensation ranges from the 20th to the 80th percentile.
 
 
 
As in past years, an executive compensation specialist on the staff of the Office of the Special Master evaluated the Report based on decades of experience in structuring executive compensation and on testing a sample of the market information contained in the Report using one or more of the databases referred to in Part II above. Based on that evaluation, the Office of the Special Master has concluded that the market comparisons set forth in the Report provide a reasonable guide to compensation paid to "persons in similar positions or roles at similar entities that are similarly situated".
9
 
 
The Proposed Structures for Covered Employees include cash salaries of more than $500,000 for six Covered Employees (as compared to five in 2011). AIG's proposal does not, however, include any increase in cash compensation for any Covered Employee.
 
Consistent with 2011, AIG has proposed the use of AIG common stock or common stock units for 2012 stock salary. As required by the Rule, the common stock or common stock units proposed to be used for stock salary would be fully vested upon grant.
 
AIG proposed target annual long-term incentive awards for most Covered Employees representing 10% of their total 2012 compensation and payable in long-term restricted stock units that generally vest only if the Covered Employee remains employed by the Company on the third anniversary of the grant date. As required by the Rule, these awards would become payable only in 25% installments for each 25% of AIG's TARP obligations that are repaid.
 
AIG proposed payments of "other" compensation, as well as perquisites, to the Covered Employees. These proposed payments varied in value.
 
The Office of the Special Master has reviewed the Proposed Structures in detail by application of the six principles set forth in the Rule and described in Part III above. The Office of the Special Master's review also made use of the resources described in Part II. In order to consistently apply the principles and ensure the satisfaction of the public interest standard, the Office of the Special Master has determined that the guidelines established in 2009, and applied in 2010 and 2011, must continue to govern compensation in 2012.
 
 
 
After reviewing the Proposed Structures, the Office of the Special Master has concluded that they are in most respects consistent with the guidelines. However, certain aspects of the Proposed Structures and amounts potentially payable under the Proposed Structures require modification to ensure that they are consistent with the public interest standard.
10
The Office of the Special Master has determined, in light of the considerations that follow, that the compensation structures described in and to this Determination Memorandum will not, by virtue of either their structural design or the amounts potentially payable under them, result in payments inconsistent with the public interest standard.
Exhibits I
II
 
The Office of the Special Master reviewed AIG's proposed cash salaries in light of the principle that compensation structures should generally be comparable to "compensation structures and amounts for persons in similar positions or roles at similar entities," 31 C.F.R.  30.16(b)(1)(v). Based in part upon this principle, the Office of the Special Master has concluded that cash salaries generally should target the 50th percentile as compared to persons in similar positions or roles at similar entities, because such levels of cash salaries balance the need to attract and retain talent with the need for compensation structures that reflect the circumstances of Exceptional Assistance Recipients.
The Office of the Special Master also reviewed AIG's proposed cash salaries in light of the principle that compensation structures should be "performance-based over a relevant performance period."  30.16(b)(1)(iv). Based in part upon this principle, the Office of the Special Master has determined that, other than in exceptional cases for good cause shown, a Covered Employee's cash salary should not exceed $500,000.
Id.
After reviewing AIG's proposal, the Office of the Special Master has determined that, in general, the proposed cash salaries target the 50th percentile of cash salaries paid to persons in similar positions or roles at similar entities. The cash salaries that the Office of the Special Master has determined are consistent with the public interest standard for the Covered Employees are set forth in .
Exhibit I
 
The Office of the Special Master reviewed the amount of stock salary AIG proposed to pay the Covered Employees in light of the principles that compensation structures should generally be comparable to "compensation structures and amounts for persons in similar positions or roles at similar entities,"  30.16(b)(1)(v), and that a "compensation structure, and amount payable... should reflect the current or prospective contributions of an employee to the value of the [Company]."  30.16(b)(1)(vi). The Office of the Special Master found that
id.
Id.
 
 
the amounts of stock salary proposed by AIG generally would place the Covered Employees around the 50th percentile of compensation for persons in similar roles at similar entities. However, in light of the principle that "an appropriate portion of the compensation should be performance-based over a relevant performance period,"  30.15(b)(1)(iv), the Office of the Special Master concluded that, in certain cases, the proposed stock salary amount was not justified and that a portion of compensation should be reallocated from stock salary to the long-term incentive award. (See item 3 below.) The stock salaries that the Office of the Special Master has determined are consistent with the public interest standard for 2012 are set forth in .
id.
Exhibit I
The Office of the Special Master reviewed the structure of AIG's proposal for stock salary in light of the principle that compensation structures should align performance incentives with long-term value creation rather than short-term profits.See 30.16(b)(1)(i). In light of this principle, the guidelines provide that stock salary may be redeemable only in three equal, annual installments beginning on the first anniversary of grant.
id.
11
The Proposed Structures are consistent with this requirement. In addition, AIG's proposal to use common stock or common stock units for 2012 stock salary awards is consistent with the structure of stock salary payable by the other Exceptional Assistance Recipients.
 
The Office of the Special Master reviewed AIG's proposed target annual long-term incentive awards in light of the principle that performance-based compensation should be payable "over a relevant performance period."  30.16(b)(1)(iv) Based in part upon this principle, long-term incentives must be paid in the form of long-term restricted stock, and may be paid if, and only if, objective performance metrics are achieved and the employee continues to provide services to the company for three years following the date of grant.
Id.
.
12
The structure of AIG's proposed annual long-term incentive awards generally satisfies these requirements. Under the Proposed Structures, annual long-term incentive awards for 2012 will be payable only upon the achievement of specified, objective performance criteria to be provided to the Office of the Special Master and generally only if the employee continues to provide services to the Company for three years following the date of grant. In addition, as required by the Rule, these awards may be redeemed only in 25% installments for each 25% of AIG's TARP obligations that are repaid.
The Office of the Special Master also reviewed the target amounts of annual long-term incentive awards AIG proposed for the Covered Employees in light of the principle that an "appropriate portion of the compensation should be performance-based,"  30.16(b)(1)(iv),
id.
 
 
and "performance metrics should be measurable, enforceable, and actually enforced if not met." In the case of a number of Covered Employees, the Proposed Structures failed to satisfy these principles because they allocated no more than 10% of a Covered Employee's compensation to long-term restricted stock that is based on the achievement of performance measures. In the case of certain Covered Employees, however, the Office of the Special Master acknowledged that a lower allocation of long-term restricted stock was appropriate. The target annual long-term incentive awards that the Office of the Special Master has determined are consistent with the public interest standard for 2012 are set forth in
Id.
Exhibit I.
 
Perquisites and "other" compensation provided to a Covered Employee must be limited to $25,000 on an annual basis. The Proposed Structures are consistent with this requirement. As described in , any exceptions to this limitation will require that the Company provide to the Office of the Special Master an independent justification for the payment that is satisfactory to the Office of the Special Master.
Exhibit II
13
To the extent that payments exceeding this limitation have already been made to a Covered Employee in 2012, those amounts should be promptly returned to the Company.
 
Covered Employees must not accrue in 2012 additional amounts under supplemental executive retirement plans and other "non-qualified deferred compensation" plans, as described in .
Exhibit II
 
The Company must ensure that 2012 compensation structures for Covered Employees do not result in an increase in the amounts payable pursuant to severance arrangements.
As noted in Part III above, the Rule requires the Office of the Special Master to consider the extent to which compensation structures are "performance-based over a relevant performance period," 31 C.F.R.  30.16(b)(1)(iv). In light of the importance of this principle, as in the Prior Determinations, the Office of the Special Master requires that AIG take certain corporate governance steps to ensure that the compensation structures for the Covered Employees, and the amounts payable or potentially payable under those structures, are consistent with the public interest standard. Among other requirements, AIG must:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Office of the Special Master has reviewed the Proposed Structures for the Covered Employees for 2012 and, in light of the principles, applied the guidelines in order to ensure the
 
satisfaction of the public interest standard. On the basis of that review, the Office of the Special Master has determined that the Proposed Structures submitted by AIG are to a great extent consistent with the Prior Determinations but require certain modifications in order to meet the public interest standard.
The Office of the Special Master has reviewed the compensation structures set forth in and in light of the principles set forth at 31 C.F.R.  30.16(b). Pursuant to the authority vested in the Office of the Special Master by the Rule, and in accordance with Section 30.16(a)(3) thereof, the Office of the Special Master hereby determines that the compensation structures set forth in and, including the amounts payable or potentially payable under such compensation structures, will not result in payments that are inconsistent with the purposes of Section 111 of EESA or TARP, and will not otherwise be contrary to the public interest.
Exhibits I
II
Exhibits I
II
Pursuant to the Interim Final Rule, AIG may, within 30 days of the date hereof, request in writing that the Office of the Special Master reconsider the determinations set forth in this Determination Memorandum. The request for reconsideration must specify a factual error or relevant new information not previously considered, and must demonstrate that such error or lack of information resulted in a material error in the initial determinations. If AIG does not request reconsideration within 30 days, the determinations set forth herein will be treated as final determinations.  30.16(c)(1).
Id.
The foregoing determinations are limited to the compensation structures and employees described in and , and shall not be relied upon with respect to any other employee. The determinations are limited to the authority vested in the Office of the Special Master by Section 30.16(a)(3)(i) of the Rule, and shall not constitute, or be construed to constitute, the judgment of the Office of the Special Master or Treasury with respect to the compliance of any compensation structure with any other provision of the Rule. Moreover, this Determination Memorandum has relied upon, and is qualified in its entirety by, the accuracy of the materials submitted by the Company to the Office of the Special Master, and the absence of any material misstatement or omission in such materials.
Exhibits I
II
Finally, the foregoing determinations are limited to the compensation structures described herein, and no further compensation of any kind payable to any Covered Employee without the prior approval of the Office of the Special Master would be consistent with the public interest standard.
 
Company Name: American International Group, Inc.
 
Comparison of 2012 compensation to prior year compensation for the employees listed above
 
 
 
Note 1: The terms of stock salary delivered to Employee 1, the CEO, are provided in a letter agreement the Office of the Special Master approved in a determination dated October 2, 2009. This stock salary may not be redeemed until the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the agreement.
Note 2: The total number of Covered Employees may be less than 25 because of separations from service since January 1, 2012.
 
The following general terms and conditions shall govern the compensation structures described in . The Office of the Special Master's determination that those structures are consistent with the public interest standard is qualified in its entirety by the Company's adherence to these terms and conditions.
Exhibit I
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


