FILE:AIG/AIG-8K-20121210080348.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 9, 2012, American International Group, Inc. ("") and AIG Capital Corporation (""), a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of AIG, entered into a definitive agreement (the "") with Jumbo Acquisition Limited (""), for the sale of 80.1% of the common stock of International Lease Finance Corporation ("") by Seller to Purchaser for approximately $4.23 billion in cash (the ""). The Purchaser may elect to purchase an additional 9.9% of the common stock of ILFC for $522.5 million (the "") by the later of March 15, 2013 and ten days after approval of the Transaction and the Option by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (""). Seller will retain a 19.9% ownership interest in ILFC, or a 10.0% ownership interest in ILFC if the Option is exercised by Purchaser, in each case subject to dilution for management issuances (which, over time, would reduce AIG's ownership interest by approximately one percentage point). In connection with the Transaction, Purchaser has agreed to pay a deposit of the RMB equivalent of $422.75 million (the "") into an escrow account upon the later of ten days after approval of the Transaction and the Option by CFIUS, and March 15, 2013. If the Option is exercised by the Purchaser, then concurrently with the Transaction Deposit, the Purchaser has agreed to deposit an additional RMB equivalent of $52.25 million (such additional amount, together with the Transaction Deposit, the ""). Purchaser was formed on behalf of an investor group consisting of New China Trust Co., Ltd., China Aviation Industrial Fund and P3 Investments Ltd., and led by Mr. Weng Xianding, the Chairman of New China Trust Co., Ltd.
AIG
Seller
Share Purchase Agreement
Purchaser
ILFC
Transaction
Option
CFIUS
Transaction Deposit
Deposit
The consummation of the Transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain customary and other closing conditions, including receipt of approvals or non-disapprovals from certain regulatory bodies, including, among others, the People's Republic of China National Development and Reform Commission, CFIUS and other anti-trust and regulatory agencies, in some cases without the imposition on either party by such agencies of conditions that would qualify as burdensome.
In addition to other customary termination events, the Share Purchase Agreement allows termination (i) by AIG, Seller or Purchaser, if the closing of the Transaction has not occurred on or before May 15, 2013, subject to an extension to June 17, 2013 by AIG or Seller in the event the transfer of certain aircraft into trusts required for regulatory purposes has not occurred by then or (ii) by AIG or Seller, if Purchaser has not paid the Transaction Deposit into escrow upon the later of ten days after approval of the Transaction and the Option by CFIUS, and March 15, 2013.
Purchaser has agreed to pay the Deposit following the exercise of the Option or the Transaction Deposit (if the Option has not been exercised) to Seller as liquidated damages in the event (i) of a breach by Purchaser primarily caused the failure of closing to occur by May 15, 2013 (or, if applicable, June 17, 2013) or (ii) Purchaser fails to consummate the transaction within five business days following the date on which the last of the closing conditions has been satisfied or waived. In addition, if the Share Purchase Agreement is terminated for other reasons, the Deposit following the exercise of the Option or the Transaction Deposit (if the Option has not been exercised) may be used to pay Seller for certain damages it suffers as a result of other breaches by Purchaser. Purchaser's liability is generally limited to the Deposit following the exercise of the Option or the Transaction Deposit (if the Option has not been exercised), other than in cases of actual fraud, and except in respect of AIG's and Seller's ability to enforce the investors' equity commitments to Purchaser at the closing. Purchaser's liability to AIG and Seller for breach of warranty terminates at closing, with the exception of certain covenants, including confidentiality.
AIG's and Seller's liability to Purchaser for breach of warranty generally terminates at closing, with the exception of actual fraud and (i) the warranty as to the information contained in the draft prospectus that forms a part of the registration statement on Form S-1 for ILFC Holdings Inc., as of November 28, 2012 (which liability is capped at 25% of the purchase price and survives until April 30, 2014), (ii) the warranties relating to fundamental matters, such as capacity to enter into the Transaction and title to the shares being transferred, and (iii) certain pre-closing covenants. AIG's and Seller's aggregate indemnification obligations under the Share Purchase Agreement are capped at an amount equal to the purchase price.
Simultaneously with the consummation of the Transaction, the parties will enter into a stockholders' agreement (the "") pursuant to which (i) if the Option is exercised, Seller will have the right to appoint one board member of ILFC (who will initially be Robert H. Benmosche), as long as it has not sold more than half of its post-closing interest in ILFC and (ii) if the Option is not exercised, Seller will have the right to appoint two board members of ILFC (one of whom will initially be Robert H. Benmosche) or one board member if Seller has sold more than half, but not more than 75%, of its post-closing interest in ILFC, and if Seller has sold more than 75% of its post-closing interest, it will
Stockholders' Agreement
not have the right to appoint a board member. Seller will have customary tag-along rights and one demand right for an initial public offering in Hong Kong, London or the United States (to be selected by Purchaser) at any time after May 15, 2017. Seller will have priority and piggyback registration rights in any initial public offering. Any transfers of AIG's stake will be subject to a right of first offer to Purchaser. Purchaser will also have customary drag-along rights if it sells control of ILFC for cash.
The description of the Share Purchase Agreement and the Stockholders' Agreement contained herein does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Share Purchase Agreement, which contains a term sheet for the Stockholders' Agreement, and which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 2.1 and incorporated in its entirety into this Item 1.01 by reference.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On December 9, 2012, AIG issued a press release announcing the signing of the Share Purchase Agreement. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(this "") dated as of December 9, 2012
THIS SHARE PURCHASE AGREEMENT
Agreement
BY AND AMONG
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
 
 
 
 
as follows:
NOW IT IS AGREED
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as may be otherwise specified in the Transaction Agreements, all costs and expenses, including fees and disbursements of counsel, financial advisers and accountants, incurred in connection with the Transaction Agreements and the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements shall be paid by the party incurring such costs and expenses, whether or not Initial Completion and/or Subsequent Completion shall have occurred.
 
 
 
American International Group, Inc.
80 Pine Street
New York, New York 10005
United States of America
Fax: 212-425-3275
Attention: General Counsel
 
with a copy to:
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP
919 Third Avenue
New York, New York 10022
United States of America
Fax: 212-909-6836
Attention: John M. Vasily
 
AIG Capital Corporation
80 Pine Street
New York, New York 10005
United States of America
Fax: 212-425-3275
Attention: General Counsel, American International Group, Inc.
with a copy to:
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP
919 Third Avenue
New York, New York 10022
United States of America
Fax: 212-909-6836
Attention: John M. Vasily
 
87 Mary Street
George Town, Grand Cayman
KY1-9005
Cayman Islands
Fax: +852-2810-0368
Attention: Wing Fai Ng, Cheng Ming and Brian Ooi
with a copy to:
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett
ICBC Tower, 35/F
3 Garden Road
Central, Hong Kong
Fax: +852-2869-7694
Daniel Clivner
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AS WITNESS this Agreement has been signed by the parties (or their duly authorized representatives) on the date stated at the beginning of this Agreement.
 
 
AS WITNESS this Agreement has been signed by the parties (or their duly authorized representatives) on the date stated at the beginning of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provided the Governmental Approvals identified in have been made or obtained, the execution and delivery by each of the Parent and the Seller (as applicable) of the Transaction Agreements to which it is a party, the performance by each of the Parent and the Seller (as applicable) of its obligations under the Transaction Agreements to which it is a party and the consummation by each of the Parent and the Seller (as applicable) of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements to which it is a party do not and will not: (i) violate or result in the breach of any provision of the organizational documents of the Seller, the Parent or any Company Group Member; (ii) conflict with or violate in any material respect any Law or Order of any Governmental Authority applicable to, or require any Governmental Approvals to be made or obtained by, the Parent, the Seller or any Company Group Member (except, in the case of Governmental Approvals, for the Governmental Approvals identified in and notices, filings, exemptions or reviews, consents or approvals the failure of which to make or obtain that would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to give rise to a material liability or to criminal liability); or (iii) conflict with or violate, result in any breach of, constitute a default (or even which, with the giving or notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default) under, require any consent under or
Schedule 5
Schedule 5
 
give to any Person any rights of termination, acceleration or cancellation of, or result in a loss of rights under, or result in the creation of any Encumbrance (other than Permitted Liens) on any of the assets or properties of any Company Group Member pursuant to, any Material Contract to which the Parent, the Seller or any Company Group Member is a party or by which any of them of any of their respective properties, assets or businesses is bound or subject, except, in the case of  and , for any such conflicts, violations, breaches, defaults, consents, terminations, accelerations, cancellations, losses, rights or creations that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
clause (ii)
clause (iii)
 
The audited consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, and the notes thereto (the ""), and the unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2012, June 30, 2012 and September 30, 2012, and the notes thereto (the "" and, together with the Audited Financial Statements, the ""), (i) have been prepared in accordance with (a) all applicable Laws and financial regulations of the relevant jurisdiction(s) in force at the time of their preparation and (b) GAAP, which has been consistently applied throughout the periods indicated therein, except as otherwise disclosed in the Financial Statements; and (ii) present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company as of the end of such financial periods and the consolidated results of operations and cash flows of the Company for each of the periods then ended, except that the Unaudited Financial Statements are subject to normal recurring year-end adjustments.
Audited Financial Statements
Unaudited Financial Statements
Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
No Company Group Member has any liabilities or obligations of any nature (absolute, accrued, contingent or otherwise) which are not properly disclosed or reserved against in the Financial Statements as of and for the period ended September 30, 2012 to the extent
 
required to be so disclosed or so reserved against therein in accordance with GAAP, except for (A) liabilities that have arisen since September 30, 2012 in the ordinary and usual course of business and consistent with past practice and (B) liabilities that, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
No Company Group Member is a party to any stock lending or similar agreements or similar arrangements or has any obligations or liabilities (whether or not contingent) under or in connection with any such agreements or arrangements. No Company Group Member has any obligations or liabilities (whether or not contingent) under or in connection with any stock lending agreements or arrangements which are no longer outstanding but under which obligations or liabilities (whether or not contingent) exist or may arise.
 
The Company Prospectus together with of of the Disclosure Letter describes all Indebtedness for borrowed money of each Company Group Member that has in excess of US$50 million outstanding.
paragraph 10
Schedule 1
 
The draft prospectus that forms a part of the registration statement for ILFC Holdings Inc., filed on Form S-1 with the SEC on September 2, 2011, as amended by Amendment No. 5 to Form S-1 filed with the SEC on the Company Prospectus Date, as supplemented by the information indicated in of of the Disclosure Letter (the ""), as of the Company Prospectus Date, does not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements contained therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
paragraph 11
Schedule 1
Company Prospectus
 
No broker, finder or investment banker is entitled to any financial advisory, brokerage, finder's or other fee or commission in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of the Parent, the Seller or any of their respective Affiliates.
 
Neither the Parent, the Seller, the Company nor any Person acting on their behalf has taken any action (including any offering of any securities of the Company under circumstances which would require the integration of such offering with the offering of any of the Shares or the Option Shares under the Securities Act), which might subject the sale of any of the Shares or the Option Shares to the Purchaser pursuant to this Agreement to the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
 
Each Material Contract is a valid and binding obligation of each of the Company Group Member(s) (as applicable) that is party thereto and, to the knowledge of the Parent, each other party to such Material Contract, except for such failures to be valid and binding as, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Each such Material Contract is enforceable against the Company Group Member(s) that is party thereto and, to the knowledge of the Parent, as of the Company Prospectus Date, and, to the knowledge of the Parent without inquiry, as of the Company Prospectus Date, each other party to such Material Contract in accordance with its terms (subject in each case to the Bankruptcy Exceptions), except for such failures to be enforceable as, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No Company Group Member or, to the knowledge of the Parent, as of the Signing Date, any other party to a Material Contract, is in material default or material breach of a Material Contract and, to the knowledge of the Parent, as of the Signing Date, there does not exist any event, condition or omission that would constitute such a default or breach (whether by lapse of time or notice or both), in each case, except as, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Each contract, agreement and other arrangement between any member of the Company Group, on the one hand, and the Parent or any of its Affiliates (excluding any member of the Company Group), on the other hand, in effect as of the Signing Date (each of the foregoing, a "") has been entered into, and contains terms and conditions that have been negotiated, on an arm's-length basis. The Disclosure Letter contains a true and complete list of all Related Party Contracts (other than Related Party Contracts entered into on an arms-length basis for the provision of insurance), true and complete copies of which have been made available to the Purchaser prior to the Signing Date.
Related Party Contract
 
Each Company Group Member has all material permits, licenses, franchises, authorizations, orders and approvals of, and has made all material filings, applications and registrations with, Governmental Authorities, that are required in order to permit it to own or lease its properties and assets and to carry on its business as presently conducted (the ""), including all material licenses, certificates of authority, permits or other authorizations that are required to be obtained from any Governmental Authority in connection with the operation, ownership or transaction of an aircraft leasing business. To the knowledge of the Parent, all Permits are valid and in full force and effect. To the knowledge of the Parent, no Company Group Member is in default under or the subject of a proceeding for suspension or revocation of, and, to the knowledge of the Parent, no condition exists that with notice or lapse of time or both would constitute a default under, or basis for suspension or revocation of, any Permit. Each Company Group Member has complied in all respects and is not in default or violation of, and no Company Group Member is, to the knowledge of the Parent, under investigation with respect to or has been threatened to be charged with or given notice of any violation of, any applicable Law, other than such noncompliance, defaults or violations that would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Except for statutory or regulatory restrictions of general application or applicable to aircraft leasing companies generally, no Governmental Authority has placed any material restriction (other than Permitted Liens) on the business or properties of any Company Group Member that would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. This shall not apply with respect to Taxes.
Permits
paragraph 16
 
Since March 6, 2011, each Company Group Member has timely filed (subject to any permitted extension) all material reports, forms, certifications, registrations, documents,
 
filings, statements and submissions, together with any exhibits, amendments and supplements thereto, that it was required to file with any Governmental Authority (but excluding the Company Prospectus and its predecessors, including any preliminary registration statements filed on Form S-1 and amendments thereto) (the foregoing, collectively, the "") and has paid all material fees and assessments due and payable in connection therewith. As of their respective dates of filing, (i) each of the Reports filed with the SEC and, to the knowledge of the Parent, each other Report complied in all material respects with all statutes and applicable rules and regulations of the applicable Governmental Authorities, (ii) each of the Reports filed with the SEC did not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated or incorporated by reference therein or necessary to make the statements therein in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and (iii) to the knowledge of Parent each of the other Reports was complete and accurate in all material respects. This shall not apply with respect to Tax Returns.
Reports
paragraph 17
 
There are no legal proceedings (including any proceeding or, to the knowledge of the Parent, any investigation by or before any Governmental Authority) pending or, to the knowledge of the Parent, threatened in writing against any member of the Company Group or to which any of their respective assets are subject which would reasonably be expected to result in Losses in excess of US$50 million or any permanent injunction or other form of equitable relief which would or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on any material business operations of any member of the Company Group. No member of the Company Group is subject to, and none of its assets, properties or businesses is bound by, any Order in a Material Jurisdiction and, to the knowledge of the Parent, in any jurisdiction (other than a Material Jurisdiction), in each case which would reasonably be expected to result in Losses in excess of US$50 million or any permanent injunction or other form of equitable relief which would or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on any material business operations of any member of the Company Group. As of the Signing Date, there are no legal proceedings (including any investigation or proceeding by or before any Governmental Authority) pending or, to the knowledge of the Parent, threatened in writing against any member of the Company Group or to which any of their respective assets are subject questioning the legality of the transactions contemplated by any of the Transaction Agreements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
All current property and liability insurance policies maintained by and covering any Company Group Member are in full force and effect (and all premiums due and payable thereon have been paid in full on a timely basis), and no written notice of cancellation, termination or revocation or other written notice that any such insurance policy is no longer in full force or effect or that the issuer of any such insurance policy is not willing or able to perform its obligations thereunder has been received by any Company Group Member, and no Company Group Member is in default of any provision thereof, except, in each case, that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. All certificates of insurance for the insurance policies maintained by a Company Group Member referred to in the preceding sentence have been made available to the Purchaser.
 
Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (1) each member of the Company Group owns or otherwise has the right to use, all intellectual property rights, including all trademarks, trade dress, service marks, company names and other source identifiers and goodwill associated therewith, domain names, patents, inventions, trade secrets, know-how, works of authorship and copyrights therein (""), that are used in the conduct of their existing businesses and all rights relating to the plans, design and specifications of any of its facilities free and clear of all Encumbrances and any claims of ownership by current or former employees, contractors, designers or others except for any Permitted Liens and (2) to the knowledge of the Parent, no member of the Company Group is materially infringing, diluting, misappropriating or violating, nor has any member of the
Proprietary Rights
 
Company Group received within the last two years any written (or, to the knowledge of the Parent, oral) communications alleging that any of them has materially infringed, diluted, misappropriated or violated, any of the Proprietary Rights owned by any other Person. Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, to the knowledge of the Parent, no other Person is infringing, diluting, misappropriating or violating, nor has any member of the Company Group sent any written communications since January 1, 2010 alleging that any Person has infringed, diluted, misappropriated or violated, any of the Proprietary Rights owned by any Company Group Member.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At Initial Completion and any Subsequent Completion:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part A
Peter Juhas
Michael Bacon
P. Nicholas Kourides
Part A-1
Henri Courpron
Fred Cromer
Elias Habayeb
Pamela Hendry, solely with respect to matters relating to financial Indebtedness
Kevin Horan
Heinrich Loechteken
Phil Scruggs
Craig Segor
Hooman Yazhari
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anti-trust or merger control approvals in the following jurisdictions (in addition to the antitrust approval required in the People's Republic of China which is listed in of ):
Part A
Schedule 5
United States
Cyprus
Mexico
Russia
South Africa
Ukraine
 
 
 
 
 
 
This term sheet, whether or not agreed, is not intended to, and shall not, create or reflect any binding contract or other form of legal relation between the Seller (the "Minority Stockholder") and the Purchaser (the "Majority Stockholder") or any of the consortium members.
Defined terms in this term sheet have the meaning given to them in the draft SPA (unless otherwise stated).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
AIG Media Contacts:
Jon Diat (U.S.): 917-239-9241;
jon.diat@aig.com
Jim Ankner (U.S.): 917-882-7677;
james.ankner@aig.com
AIG Investor Contact:
Liz Werner: 212-770-7074;
elizabeth.werner@aig.com
Investor Group Contacts:
Steven Lipin (U.S.): 212-333-3810;
slipin@brunswickgroup.com
Cindy Leggett-Flynn (HK):+852 3512 5000;
CLeggett-Flynn@brunswickgroup.com
Poling Cheung (Shanghai):+86 21 6039 6388;
pcheung@brunswickgroup.com
NEW YORK, December 9, 2012  American International Group, Inc. (NYSE: AIG) and an investor group led by Mr. Weng Xianding, the Chairman of New China Trust Co. Ltd., announced today that they have entered into an agreement under which AIG will sell up to a 90% stake in International Lease Finance Corporation (ILFC), a non-core asset, to the investor group in a transaction that values ILFC at approximately US$5.28 billion.
The investor group comprised of New China Trust Co. Ltd., China Aviation Industrial Fund and P3 Investments Ltd. has agreed to acquire 80.1% of ILFC for approximately US$4.23 billion, with an option to acquire an additional 9.9% stake. Upon receipt of required Chinese regulatory approvals and exercise of the option, the investor group is expected to be expanded to include New China Life Insurance Co. Ltd. and an investment arm of ICBC International.
The transaction, which is expected to close in the second quarter of 2013, marks another success in the disposition of AIG's non-core assets. At closing of the transaction, AIG will retain at least a 10% ownership stake in ILFC, allowing it to continue to participate in the growth of ILFC's unique franchise, including the benefits that the investor group will bring to the company.
"This transaction creates a solid and strategic partnership for ILFC," said Robert H. Benmosche, President and Chief Executive Officer of AIG. "While ILFC is an extremely strong business platform and AIG will retain a minority stake as a passive investor, the aircraft leasing business is not core to our insurance operations. Upon completion, the transaction will have a positive impact on AIG's liquidity and credit profile and will enable us to continue to focus on our core insurance businesses."
The transaction is subject to required regulatory approvals, including all applicable U.S. and Chinese regulatory reviews and approvals, and other customary closing conditions. When the transaction meets the criteria for "held for sale" accounting treatment, AIG expects to record a non-operating loss of approximately US$4.4 billion, which includes a non-cash charge of approximately $1.8 billion associated with the utilization of tax net operating loss carry forwards from this transaction.
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Mr. Weng Xianding, Chairman of New China Trust Co. Ltd said, "Our group shares a commitment to ILFC's experienced management team, its operating philosophy, and its presence in the United States. This transaction allows ILFC to continue to serve its worldwide partners in the aviation industry with world-class service while accelerating its growth in important markets, including Asia."
ILFC is a leading independent aircraft lessor with a global customer base of approximately 200 airlines in 80 countries. ILFC's portfolio consists of over 1,000 owned or managed aircraft, as well as commitments to purchase 229 new high-demand, fuel-efficient aircraft and rights to purchase an additional 50 such aircraft.
Under the new owners, ILFC will retain operational independence and continue to be headquartered in Los Angeles, CA. ILFC's Chief Executive Officer Henri Courpron and President Frederick S. Cromer will continue to operate and manage the business. ILFC currently employs approximately 560 people, including more than 450 people based in the U.S., and expects to hire additional U.S.-based staff to replace AIG-supported operations. ILFC will remain incorporated in the U.S. following the closing of this transaction and will continue to be registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Upon closing, a distinguished new Board of Directors for ILFC will be appointed. A majority of the new Board will include leading independent U.S. and European aerospace and financial industry experts, including Mr. Benmosche from AIG. The balance of the Board will be comprised of representatives of the investor group. The Board will continue to uphold "best practice" governance standards and practices.
"This is an exciting new chapter for ILFC that will position the company for robust future growth," Mr. Courpron said. "With existing management remaining in place, the transition will be seamless, allowing ILFC to maintain its focus on delivering the best mix of modern aircraft to meet our customers' needs around the world. In addition to a large aircraft delivery pipeline, ILFC has a dedicated management team with extensive airline, manufacturer, and leasing experience. We look forward to working with the investor group to explore new opportunities for our business. Last year, ILFC opened new offices in Beijing and Singapore dedicated to regional customer support as the region's aviation growth and demand is well established and expected to increase significantly."
Credit Suisse is acting as financial advisor to the investor group in connection with this transaction, and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett is acting as legal advisor to the investor group.
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In particular, no assurance can be given that a sale of ILFC will be consummated or, if consummated, regarding the terms thereof. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts but instead represent only AIG's belief regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside AIG's control. Except for AIG's ongoing obligation to disclose material information as required by federal securities laws, AIG is not under any obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to update or alter any projections, goals, assumptions, or other statements, whether written or oral,
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from such forward-looking statements include the factors set forth in AIG's filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
American International Group, Inc. (AIG) is a leading international insurance organization serving customers in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIG companies serve commercial, institutional, and individual customers through one of the most extensive worldwide property-casualty networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading providers of life insurance and retirement services in the United States. AIG common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
Additional information about AIG can be found at | YouTube: |Twitter: | LinkedIn: |
www.aig.com
www.youtube.com/aig
@AIG_LatestNews
http://www.linkedin.com/company/aig
AIG is the marketing name for the worldwide property-casualty, life and retirement, and general insurance operations of American International Group, Inc. For additional information, please visit our website at www.aig.com. All products and services are written or provided by subsidiaries or affiliates of American International Group, Inc. Products or services may not be available in all jurisdictions, and coverage is subject to actual policy language. Non-insurance products and services may be provided by independent third parties. Certain property-casualty coverages may be provided by a surplus lines insurer. Surplus lines insurers do not generally participate in state guaranty funds, and insureds are therefore not protected by such funds.
ILFC, a wholly owned subsidiary of American International Group, Inc., is the world's largest independent aircraft lessor measured by number of owned aircraft. ILFC's portfolio consists of over 1,000 owned or managed aircraft, as well as commitments to purchase 229 new high-demand, fuel-efficient aircraft and rights to purchase an additional 50 such aircraft.
www.ilfc.com
 


