FILE:THC/THC-8K-20021114214036.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
ITEM 5.    
Other Events
.
        On November 13, 2002, Tenet Healthcare Corporation, a Nevada corporation ("Tenet"), issued a press release announcing that the Shasta County Superior Court denied a request for a temporary restraining order seeking to prohibit two physicians who practice at Redding Medical Center, a hospital owned by a Tenet subsidiary, from practicing medicine in the State of California. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
ITEM 7.    
Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements And Exhibits
.
(c)
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:    November 14, 2002
QuickLinks
ITEM 5. Other Events .
ITEM 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements And Exhibits .

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99
        
SANTA BARBARA, Calif.Nov. 13, 2002
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) issued the following statement today:
        Shasta County Superior Court Judge Monica Marlow today denied a request for a temporary restraining order prohibiting two Redding, Calif., physicians, Chae Hyun Moon, M.D., and Fidel Realyvasquez, M.D., from practicing medicine. The state Attorney General's Office, acting on behalf of the Medical Board of California, had sought the temporary restraining order. The two physicians practice at Redding Medical Center, which is owned by a Tenet subsidiary.
        The two physicians are under investigation by the U.S. Attorney's Office regarding allegations that they provided unnecessary treatments to patients. These allegations have not been proven.
        Since the allegations were raised, the hospital has required that a cardiologist and a cardiac surgeon conduct concurrent review of any case these two physicians intend to perform at Redding Medical Center. Patient safety must remain the hospital's paramount concern.
        The heart program at Redding Medical Center continues to operate and the entire staff at the hospital remains committed to delivering quality patient care.
        Redding Medical Center and Tenet are cooperating fully with the investigation by the U.S. Attorney's Office. At the same time, the hospital continues to take steps to ensure that quality care continues to be delivered to its patients.
        Tenet Healthcare Corporation, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates 113 acute care hospitals with 27,726 beds and numerous related health care services. Tenet and its subsidiaries employ approximately 114,300 people serving communities in 16 states. Tenet's name reflects its core business philosophy: the importance of shared values among partnersincluding employees, physicians, insurers and communitiesin providing a full spectrum of health care. Tenet can be found on the World Wide Web at
www.tenethealth.com.
Certain statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. They are based on management's current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Certain of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
QuickLinks
Court Denies Temporary Restraining Order Against Two Redding Physicians


