FILE:THC/THC-8K-20020522163549.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
ITEM 5. Other Events.
        On May 22, 2002, Tenet Healthcare Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the "Company"), announced that its Board of Directors approved a 3-for-2 split of its common stock and a reduction in the par value of the common stock from $.075 per share to $.050 per share. The additional shares of stock will be distributed on June 28, 2002, to holders of record at the close of business on June 12, 2002. A press release announcing the stock split is attached as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
ITEM 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements And Exhibits.
(c)
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
FORM 8K
ITEM 5. Other Events.
ITEM 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements And Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99
        
SANTA BARBARA, Calif.May 22, 2002
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) announced today that its Board of Directors has approved a 3-for-2 stock split of Tenet Healthcare's common stock and a reduction of the par value of its common stock from $.075 per share to $.050 per share. The stock split will be effected by issuing one additional share of common stock for every two shares of common stock held. The additional shares will be distributed on June 28, 2002 to holders of record at the close of business on June 12, 2002.
        Tenet Healthcare, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates 116 acute care hospitals with 28,677 beds and numerous related health care services. Its hospitals and subsidiaries employ approximately 113,750 people serving communities in 17 states. Tenet's name reflects its core business philosophy: the importance of shared values among partnersincluding employees, physicians, insurers and communitiesin providing a full spectrum of health care. Tenet can be found on the World Wide Web at
www.tenethealth.com.
Certain statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. They are based on management's current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Certain of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.


