FILE:THC/THC-8K-20030103145208.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
ITEM 5.  OTHER EVENTS.
        On January 2, 2003, Tenet Healthcare Corporation, a Nevada corporation, announced that it received an administrative investigative demand subpoena from the Department of Justice seeking documents related to Medicare outlier payments. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
ITEM 7.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c)
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS.
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
SIGNATURE
EXHIBIT INDEX

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99
        
SANTA BARBARA, Calif.January 2, 2002
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) said that it received today an administrative investigative demand subpoena from the Department of Justice seeking documents related to Medicare outlier payments.
        The demand requests documents from Tenet and 19 hospitals owned by its subsidiaries. Fifteen of the 19 hospitals are located in California; the remaining facilities are in Texas, Pennsylvania and Louisiana. The demand focuses on the time period from January 1, 1997 through the present.
        "Given the scrutiny and controversy regarding outlier payments, it is not surprising that the Justice Department is interested in reviewing the matter," said Christi R. Sulzbach, Tenet's chief corporate officer and general counsel.
        The company had previously announced that the Office of Administrative Services of the Department of Health and Human Services had begun an audit of outlier payments to certain hospitals owned by Tenet subsidiaries.
        The company said it would cooperate with DOJ representatives regarding this matter. The investigation is being conducted by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Central District of California.
        Tenet Healthcare Corporation, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates 114 acute care hospitals with 27,851 beds and numerous related health care services. Tenet and its subsidiaries employ approximately 115,000 people serving communities in 16 states. Tenet's name reflects its core business philosophy: the importance of shared values among partnersincluding employees, physicians, insurers and communitiesin providing a full spectrum of health care. Tenet can be found on the World Wide Web at
www.tenethealth.com.
Certain statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. They are based on management's current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Certain of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
QuickLinks
Exhibit 99


