FILE:THC/THC-8K-20030423160213.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM 9. Earnings Release.
        On April 10, 2003, we issued an earnings press release and financial update reporting on certain financial results for our fiscal quarter ended February 28, 2003. Copies of that press release and financial update are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 respectively. In the press release we reported that we posted a net loss in the quarter of $55 million or $0.12 per share, compared with net income of $280 million or $0.56 per share in the prior-year quarter. In the quarter we had an operating loss of $19 million compared to operating income of $555 million in the prior-year quarter. For the nine months ended February 28, 2003, we reported net income of $598 million compared to $524 million for the prior-year period. Our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2003, reflects that for the nine months ended February 28, 2003, we reported operating income of $1.25 billion compared to $1.185 billion for the prior-year period.
        Please carefully review in their entirety our financial statements, the notes thereto and the Management's Discussion and Analysis that are included in our Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended February 28, 2003. Among other matters, we advise that our operating results for the three-month and nine-month periods ended February 28, 2003 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for a full fiscal year.
        The earnings press release uses two performance measures that are not calculated or presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP")net income from operations and EBITDA. When we used the non-GAAP measure net income from operations, we noted that a reconciliation of that measure to net income as determined in accordance with GAAP may be found in Note 9 of the accompanying financial update. When we used the non-GAAP measure EBITDA, which we defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, impairment and restructuring charges, and loss from early extinguishment of debt, we noted that a reconciliation of that measure to operating income as determined in accordance with GAAP may be found in Note 10 of the accompanying financial update.
        As disclosed in Note 9 of the financial update, our net income from operations excludes impairment, restructuring and other unusual charges, as well as charges for the early retirement of debt. We exclude these types of charges because they bear little correlation to our net operating revenues in the three-month and nine-month periods ended February 28, 2003, and are highly unpredictable from period to period in their occurrence and magnitude. We provided this non-GAAP analytical measure to allow investors to better compare our current performance from our patient care activities with prior periods and to better predict future performance.
        We provided EBITDA as another analytical measure. This measure is widely used in the hospital industry and other industries as a measure of operational profitability, and is used by lenders as an indicator of our ability to cover fixed charges. Our credit agreement contains a covenant requiring us not to exceed a specified ratio of debt to EBITDA.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
99.1
Earnings Press Release issued on April 10, 2003.
99.2
Financial Update accompanying Earnings Press Release issued on April 10, 2003.
      

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.1
Tenet Healthcare Corporation Headquarters Office 3820 State Street Santa Barbara, CA 93105 Tel 805.563.6855 Fax 805.563.6871 http://www.tenethealth.com
        SANTA BARBARA, Calif.
April 10, 2003
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) today reported results for its quarter ended Feb. 28, 2003, and provided preliminary guidance for calendar fiscal 2003 that incorporates the impact of previously announced recent actions taken by the company without changing underlying operating assumptions.
        During the quarter, net income from operations was $190 million, or $0.40 per diluted share, compared with $310 million, or $0.62, in the prior-year quarter, after reflecting Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142 on accounting for goodwill as if it had been in effect in both periods and after adjusting the prior-year period to reflect the company's June 2002 3-for-2 stock split. A reconciliation of net income from operations to net income as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is offered in Note 9 of the accompanying Financial Update.
        The company offered preliminary guidance for earnings from operations for its new calendar fiscal 2003, expected to be between $1.34 per share and $1.65 per share. This range incorporates a proposed rule change regarding Medicare outlier payments and the $0.39 to $0.43 cumulative net reduction from numerous previously announced actions the company has taken in recent months. These actions include the decision to expense stock options, reclassification of earnings from pending asset sales, the company's recent $1 billion financing and announced cost reductions. These adjustments are purely arithmetic and do not reflect any changes in the underlying operating assumptions. As such, this guidance is preliminary, pending completion of the company's operating budget process currently underway. As previously announced, Tenet is moving to a calendar fiscal year to help investors more easily make financial comparisons with other publicly traded hospital companies, and better align its financial reporting with the company's new outlier policy that became effective Jan. 1, 2003.
        "We are clearly in a transitional period and we continue to address aggressively the challenges facing the company through cost reductions, non-core asset sales, revised pricing policies, enhanced corporate governance, and a sharp focus on quality patient care," said Jeffrey C. Barbakow, Tenet chairman and chief executive officer. "Some of these actions will impact our near-term performance but are necessary as we work to reposition the company and build a strong foundation for the future. The fact that admissions to our hospitals continue to grow at a solid rate is an encouraging demonstration of the underlying strength in our core business."
Results of Fiscal Third-Quarter Ended Feb. 28, 2003
        For the third quarter under the company's former May 31 fiscal year, admissions to Tenet hospitals rose 2.5 percent on a same-facility basis and 1.9 percent overall. Outpatient visits rose 1.9 percent and net outpatient revenue per visit rose 10.0 percent, both on a same-facility basis.
        Net operating revenues grew 5.8 percent to $3.69 billion, compared with $3.48 billion in the prior-year quarter.
        Reflecting the company's voluntary adoption on Jan. 1, 2003 of new policies regarding Medicare outlier payments, such payments to Tenet hospitals dropped to $40 million in the quarter, compared with $191 million in the prior-year period. Reflecting this decline, and offset by increases in other payor categories, overall unit revenue (measured by same-facility net patient revenue per admission) rose 0.3 percent compared with the prior-year quarter. Excluding all outlier payments, unit revenue rose 7.3 percent.
        The reduction in Medicare outlier revenue also caused a shift in the company's payor mix, with Medicare now representing 28 percent of net patient revenues and managed care accounting for 49 percent, compared with 32 percent and 44 percent respectively in the prior-year quarter.
        Reflecting the reduction of outlier payments and a significant increase in medical malpractice insurance reserves, EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, impairment and restructuring charges, and loss from early extinguishment of debt) declined 29.1 percent in the quarter to $511 million versus $721 million in the prior-year quarter. EBITDA margins dropped to 13.9 percent versus 20.7 percent in the year-ago quarter. During the quarter, the company increased its medical malpractice insurance reserves, resulting in total malpractice expense for the quarter of $189 million, compared with $50 million in the prior-year quarter. A reconciliation of EBITDA to operating income as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is offered in Note 10 of the accompanying Financial Update.
        The company also recorded non-cash impairment charges of $383 million relating to the write-down of long-lived assets to their estimated fair values at ten general hospitals and four other properties. The write-downs were necessitated by various expected changes in the business at these facilities, including the effect of projected reductions in Medicare outlier payments. The company also recorded restructuring charges of $15 million during the quarter related primarily to severance and relocation costs in connection with management changes. In the prior-year quarter, the company recorded a charge of $12 million related to the early retirement of debt. Including the effect of these charges, the company posted a net loss in the quarter of $55 million or $0.12 per share, compared with net income of $280 million or $0.56 per share in the prior-year quarter.
        Cash flow from operations was $327 million in the quarter compared with $475 million in the prior-year quarter. Free cash flow, defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures, was $98 million compared with $307 million. On a rolling 12-months basis, cash flow from operations was $2.09 billion and free cash flow was $1.14 billion, compared with $2.37 billion and $1.59 billion respectively in the prior-year 12-month period.
        Accounts receivable days outstanding were 65 days in the quarter, up from 64 days in the year-ago quarter and 62 days in the preceding quarter. Approximately one-half of the growth over the preceding quarter derives from the arithmetic impact of the shift in payor mix. Given the reduction in Medicare outlier payments, proportionately more of the company's revenue comes from managed care payors which tend to pay bills much more slowly than Medicare.
        During the quarter, the company repurchased 6 million shares of its common stock for a total cost of approximately $110 million, at an average cost of $18.28 per share. Under its current authorization, the company may repurchase up to 24 million additional shares using free cash flow. Because the company will be reporting results for the new calendar fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2003 next month and otherwise would be restricted under its internal policies from purchasing shares, it has put in place a 10b-5(1) plan to enable it to continue to use its free cash flow to repurchase shares between April 14 and the time that it reports its March quarter results.
        Key financial ratios remain strong. The company's coverage ratio, or EBITDA-to-net-interest-expense rose to 10.72, up from 7.35 times a year ago. The company's debt-to-EBITDA ratio dropped to 1.44 times, down from 1.63 times a year ago. Its debt-to-equity ratio dropped to 0.71 times, down from 0.79 times a year ago.
Nine Months
        In reporting nine-month results, the company stressed that due to the change in Medicare outlier payments the nine-month results are not representative of expected full-year results, and pointed out that full-year results for a May 31 year-end would not be reported given the change in fiscal year to a calendar year.
        In the first nine months of fiscal 2003, admissions to Tenet hospitals rose 2.9 percent on a same-facility basis and 3.5 percent overall compared with the prior-year period.
        Net operating revenues rose 9.7 percent to $11.17 billion, versus $10.18 billion in the prior-year period. Medicare outlier payments totaled $513 million in the current nine-month period, compared with $543 million in the prior-year period.
        Unit revenues, measured by same-facility net patient revenue per admission, rose 5.7 percent. Excluding outlier payments, unit revenues grew 6.9 percent.
        EBITDA totaled $2.04 billion, versus $2.03 billion in the prior-year period. EBITDA margins were 18.3 percent compared with 19.9 percent in the prior-year period. A reconciliation of EBITDA to operating income as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is offered in Note 10 of the accompanying Financial Update.
        Net income from operations rose to $886 million or $1.80 per share, compared with $835 million or $1.66 per share in the year-ago period. A reconciliation of net income from operations to net income as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is offered in Note 9 of the accompanying Financial Update.
        Net income from operations in both the current and the year-ago nine-month periods excludes the impact of impairment, restructuring and other unusual charges, as well as charges for the early retirement of debt. Reflecting these charges, the company recorded net income of $598 million or $1.22 per share in the current nine-month period, compared with $524 million or $1.04 per share in the prior-year nine months.
Outlook
        On December 3, 2002, the company said that it expected earnings per share from operations for the twelve months ended May 2004 to range between $1.80 and $2.20 per share, depending upon changes to the Medicare outlier rule and commercial pricing assumptions. The company's preliminary guidance for its new calendar fiscal 2003 was derived from this prior assumption, updated for the impact of numerous subsequent developments.
        Since the December guidance, the company adopted in January a voluntary policy regarding Medicare outlier payments that it said would reduce its outlier payments to approximately $8 million per month or $96 million per year. Last month, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) proposed its expected change to the outlier rules. Based upon the proposed rule, the company expects outlier payments to its hospitals to be approximately $6 million per month or $72 million per year. This compares to the $100 million to $200 million assumed in the December guidance. This change alone brings the range to $1.77 to $2.04 per share. Additionally, the company has taken numerous actions which would further impact those assumptions as follows:
 - 
Revising the December guidance to the new calendar fiscal year ending Dec. 2003 results in a $0.10 per share reduction.
 - 
Expensing stock options reduces another $0.18 per share, as previously announced.
 - 
The previously announced $1 billion financing completed in January reduces earnings by another $0.06 per share due to increased interest expense.
 - 
The previously announced pending asset sale, although ultimately accretive once proceeds are used for share repurchase, will be dilutive during the interim period while the assets are held as
discontinued, reducing fiscal calendar 2003 performance by $0.09 to $0.12 per share, depending upon the timing of the sales.
 - 
The expected cost reductions of $100 million would add $0.12 per share once fully implemented. Given the expected timing of these cuts, the company expects to realize approximately $0.03 to $0.04 per share in fiscal calendar 2003.
Of these adjustments, the $0.27 to $0.30 of reductions related to expensing stock options and discontinued operations are non-cash accounting changes. All of the actions, in aggregate, reduce the previous guidance range to $1.34 to $1.65 earnings per share from operations, before any charges.
Additional Information
        According to its new calendar fiscal year, the company will report results of its March quarter in May.
        In the March quarter, the company expects to record additional impairment and restructuring charges, including impairment charges of approximately $62 million related to its announced asset sales. The company also expects to record goodwill impairment charges in the period of approximately $175 million to $200 million related to SFAS No. 142 goodwill impairments resulting from its change in reporting units from the divisional level to the company's five new operating regions. The company noted that it anticipates recording additional restructuring and other charges throughout this transitional year as it continues its restructuring efforts.
        The assets identified for sale will be accounted for as discontinued operations beginning with the March quarter, in accordance with SFAS No. 144. This will require reporting these assets' operating results in current and prior periods as discontinued operations in our statements of operations.
        Also in the March period, the company will begin expensing stock options and the employee stock purchase plan discounts granted to employees in accordance with SFAS No. 123 and SFAS No. 148. This will increase salaries and benefits costs reported in the company's statements of operations by approximately $36 million per quarter. The company will use the retroactive restatement method to transition to the fair value method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation, resulting in expensing the fair value of options which will cause the company to restate prior periods.
        As it transitions to the new calendar schedule, the company will provide unaudited prior-year calendar-quarter results for comparison purposes.
        Also next month, the company will file an annual report on Form 10-K for the 7-month period between the end of its previous fiscal year, ended May 2002, and its new calendar fiscal year-end, ended December 2002 pursuant to the transition rules involving a change in fiscal year.
        Since December, the company has, among other things, (1) announced a series of corporate governance enhancements, including the expected appointment of four new independent directors and a non-executive chairman, (2) decided to sell non-core assets and accelerate share repurchases, (3) taken action to reduce operating expenses going forward by at least $100 million annually, (4) announced its intention to begin expensing on its income statement the cost of stock options granted to employees, (5) changed to a calendar year for financial reporting to enhance comparability with other hospital companies, (6) adopted a new policy on Medicare outlier payments, (7) restructured its operating divisions and regions, (8) promoted its top hospital executives to the senior executive management team, (9) placed a seasoned hospital executive who is also a physician in charge of its large California market, and (10) established a groundbreaking new policy for uninsured patients that includes an offer, subject to government approval, of managed care-style pricing.
        Tenet executives will discuss the company's performance in greater detail on a live audio webcast later this morning. All interested investors are invited to access the webcast live at 11:00 a.m. (EDT), or on a replay basis for the next 30 days, through the company's website,
www.tenethealth.com
or through
www.companyboardroom.com.
        Tenet Healthcare Corporation, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates 114 acute care hospitals with 27,882 beds and numerous related health care services. Tenet and its subsidiaries employ approximately 116,500 people serving communities in 16 states. Tenet's name reflects its core business philosophy: the importance of shared values among partnersincluding employees, physicians, insurers and communitiesin providing a full spectrum of health care. Tenet can be found on the World Wide Web at
www.tenethealth.com.
QuickLinks
Tenet Reports EPS from Operations of $0.40 Net Operating Revenues Grew 5.8 Percent, Driven by Solid Growth in Admissions and Outpatient Visits

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.2
*
This change is the difference between the 2003 and 2002 percentages shown.
See Footnote Explanations on Pages 6, 7 and 8
*
This change is the difference between the 2003 and 2002 percentages shown.
See Footnote Explanations on Pages 6, 7 and 8.
       
*
This change is the difference between the 2003 and 2002 percentages shown.
See Footnote Explanations on Pages 6, 7 and 8.
*
This change is the difference between the 2003 and 2002 amounts shown.
Footnote Explanations
1.
Quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for a full fiscal year. Reasons for this include changes in Medicare regulations, our recently announced voluntary change in the method of calculating our Medicare outlier payments, interest rates, acquisitions and disposals of facilities and other assets, impairment and restructuring charges, unusual and non-recurring items, fluctuations in revenue allowances, revenue discounts and quarterly tax rates, the timing of price changes and changes in occupancy levels and patient volumes.
On January 6, 2003, the Company announced that it had volunteered to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") to adopt a new method of calculating Medicare outlier payments, retroactively to January 1, 2003. With this new method, instead of using recently settled cost reports for our outlier calculations, we're using current year cost-to-charge ratios, we've eliminated the use of statewide average, and we continue to use the current threshold amounts. Such payments were $40 million in the three months ended February 28, 2003 versus $191 million for the prior year quarter.
2.
The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 as of June 1, 2002. The new accounting standard,among other things, eliminates the amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for periods subsequent to the date of adoption. In accordance with the standard, we completed our initial transitional impairment evaluation in the quarter ended November 30, 2002 and, we did not need to record a goodwill impairment charge. As a result of recent events and circumstances we performed an additional evaluation of goodwill in the quarter ended February 28, 2003 and did not need to record any goodwill impairment at that time.
3.
During the quarter ended February 28, 2003, the Company recorded impairment charges of $383 million relating to the write-down of long-lived assets to their estimated fair values at ten general hospitals and four other properties. The Company recognized the impairment of these long-lived assets because events or changes in circumstances indicated that the carrying amount of the assets or related group of assets might not be fully recoverable from the assets' estimated future cash flows. These circumstances include: 1) our plan to dispose of 14 general hospitals that do not fit our core operating strategy, 2) our analyses of expected changes in growth rates for revenues and expenses, changes in payor mix and change in certain managed-care contract terms and 3) the effect of projected reductions in Medicare outlier payments on net operating revenues and operating cash flows.
During the nine months ended February 28, 2002 the Company recorded an impairment and other unusual charges of $99 million relating to the planned closure of two general hospitals and the sale of certain other health care businesses. The total charge consisted of $76 million in impairment write-downs of property, equipment and other assets to estimated fair values and $23 million for expected cash disbursements related to lease cancellation, severance and other exit costs.
4.
During the quarter ended February 28, 2003, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $15 million related to the recently announced initiatives to sharpen our strategic focus. The charges consist primarily of severance and employee relocation costs incurred in connection with management changes.
5.
During the quarter ended August 31, 2002, the Company repurchased, at par, the remaining $282 million balance of its 6% Exchangeable Notes due 2005. In connection with the repurchase of this debt, the Company recorded a loss from early extinguishment of debt in the amount of $4 million. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 145 (SFAS 145), issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board in April 2002 and adopted by the Company as of June 1, 2002, such loss has been reported herein as part of operating income (loss). Prior to the adoption of this standard, the loss would have been reported as an extraordinary item, net of tax benefits, in the Company's consolidated statement of operations.
During the quarter ended February 28, 2002, the Company recorded an extraordinary charge from the early extinguishment of debt in the amount of $8 million. This item has been reclassified in the current quarter's income statement presentation in accordance with SFAS 145 by reducing previously reported operating income and income taxes for the quarter ended February 28, 2002 by $12 million and $4 million, respectively.
On a year to date basis, the extraordinary charge from early extinguishment of debt was $180 million. The reclassification on a year to date basis was a reduction of previously reported operating income and income taxes by $287 million and $107 million, respectively.
6.
In November, the Company decided to sell its shares in Ventas, Inc. ("Ventas") and Ventas agreed to file a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the sale. Because of the Company's decision to sell its Ventas shares and because we did not expect the fair value of the shares to recover prior to the expected time of sale, the Company recorded a $64 million impairment charge ($40 million, net of taxes) in November 2002. On December 20, 2002 the Company sold all 8,301,067 shares of Ventas stock for $86 million.
7.
Other operating expenses include malpractice insurance expense of $50 million for the quarter ended February 28, 2002 and $189 million for the current quarter and $4 million in the current quarter for costs associated with our significant legal proceedings and investigations. The Company continues to experience unfavorable trends in professional and general liability risks, as well as increases in the size of claim settlements and awards in this area. The current quarter expense includes special charges of $40 million as a result of lowering the discount rate used from 7.5% to 4.61% at December 31, 2002 and 4.44% at February 28, 2003, $29 million due to increases in its reserves resulting from increases in the average cost of claims being paid by our majority-owned insurance subsidiary and $57 million due to increases in our self-insurance reserves in excess of those planned for the quarter.
8.
On March 12, 2003, the board of directors approved a change in the accounting for stock options granted to employees and directors from the intrinsic-value method to the fair-value method, as recommended by SFAS No.123, effective for the new calendar year ending December 31, 2003. Based on options granted through February 28, 2003, we estimate that this change will increase salaries and benefits expense by approximately $36 million each quarter throughout the calendar year ending December 31, 2003. We will also restate the results of operations for prior periods. For example, for the four quarters prior to the beginning of the new calendar year, we will report additional salaries and benefits expense ranging between $32 million and $35 million per quarter.
9.
The following is a reconciliation of net income (loss) as determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles to income (loss) from operations as used herein, in millions:
       
10.
The following is a reconciliation of EBITDA and EBITDA margins (the ratio of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, impairment and restructuring charges, and loss from early extinguishment of debt to net operating revenues) to operating income and operating margins (the ratio of operating income to net operating revenues). Operating income and net operating revenues are considered performance measures under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, whereas EBITDA is not. We refer to EBITDA and EBITDA margins because this measure is widely used in our industry.
11.
In light of recent events and our voluntary adoption of a new method of calculating Medicare outlier payments, we are supplementing certain of the historical information with information presented on an adjusted basis (as if we had received no Medicare outlier payments during the periods indicated). We do so to show the effect that Medicare outlier payments have had on our historical results of operations, without estimating or suggesting their effect on future results of operations.
QuickLinks
TENET HEALTHCARE CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)


