FILE:THC/THC-8K-20030902131651.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Tenet Enters into Definitive Agreements To Sell Ten Hospitals.
ITEM 9.
                                                    
 
On August 25, 2003, Tenet Healthcare Corporation issued a press release stating that the company has signed a definitive agreement with Health Management Associates Inc. (NYSE: HMA) under which HMA will acquire five hospitals in Florida, Missouri and Tennessee from a subsidiary of the company.  A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby is furnished.
 
On August 26, 2003, Tenet Healthcare Corporation issued a press release stating that the company has signed a definitive agreement with Albert Einstein Healthcare Network under which Albert Einstein Healthcare Network will acquire the Elkins Park Hospital facility in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, from a subsidiary of the company.  A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.2 and hereby is furnished.
 
On September 2, 2003, Tenet Healthcare Corporation issueda press release stating that the company has signed a definitive agreement with Triad Hospitals Inc. (NYSE: TRI) under which Triad will acquire four hospitals in Arkansas owned by subsidiaries of the company.  A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.3 and hereby is furnished.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
Press Release dated August 25, 2003.
99.1
                          
 
Press Release dated August 26, 2003.
99.2
                          
 
Press Release dated September 2, 2003.
99.3
                          

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) announced today that the company has signed a definitive agreement with Health Management Associates Inc. (NYSE: HMA) under which HMA will acquire five hospitals owned by Tenet subsidiaries in Florida, Missouri and Tennessee.
Aug. 25, 2003 
 
Gross proceeds to Tenet from the sale of the five hospitals are estimated at $550 million, which includes $515 million for property, plant and equipment from HMA, and approximately $35 million from working capital liquidation.  The five facilities are 128-bed Seven Rivers Community Hospital in Crystal River, Fla.; Three Rivers Healthcare System, a 423-bed, two-campus hospital in Poplar Bluff, Mo.; Twin Rivers Regional Medical Center, a 116-bed hospital in Kennett, Mo.; Harton Regional Medical Center, a 137-bed hospital in Tullahoma, Tenn., and University Medical Center, a 257-bed hospital in Lebanon, Tenn.  The transaction is subject to the receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals.  Tenet expects to use proceeds of the sale for general corporate purposes.
 
"We are very pleased with this transaction, which is part of our previously
announced plan to divest or consolidate a number of hospitals that no longer fit the company's core operating strategy," said Trevor Fetter, Tenet's president and acting chief executive officer.  "The value of this transaction reflects the excellent reputation for quality care of these hospitals.  We're also proud of their service to their communities and are delighted to be handing them over to a new operator who will be continuing that tradition."
 
The company indicated it is continuing to move forward on identifying attractive buyers for the remaining hospitals held for sale and expects to announce additional agreements in the near term.
 
In March, Tenet announced that it would divest or consolidate 14 hospitals that no longer fit the company's core operating strategy.  Today's announcement accounts for five of the 14 and represents roughly 70 percent of total anticipated pretax proceeds, including working capital liquidation.  Two hospitals  Parkview Hospital in Philadelphia, Pa., and Santa Ana Hospital Medical Center in Santa Ana, Calif.  are in the process of closing.  Negotiations for the sale of the remaining seven are ongoing.
 
Here are brief profiles of the five Tenet hospitals being acquired by HMA:
 
Seven Rivers Community Hospital, Crystal River, Florida is a 128-bed acute care hospital providing general acute care services, including emergency room services, cardiology, orthopedics and obstetrical services.  With approximately 135 physicians on staff, the hospital's primary service area has a growing population of more than 60,000 residents.  Solucient named Seven Rivers Community Hospital a "Top 100 Hospital" in 2001.
 - 
                      
Harton Regional Medical Center, Tullahoma, Tennessee is a 137-bed acute care hospital providing general acute care services, including emergency room services, neurosurgery, cardiology, orthopedics and obstetrical services.  With approximately 175 physicians on staff, the hospital's primary service area has a growing population of nearly
 - 
                      
85,000 residents.
University Medical Center, Lebanon, Tennessee is a 257-bed, two campus acute care hospital providing general acute care services, including emergency room services, neurology, cardiology, orthopedics, joint replacement and obstetrical services.  With approximately 165 physicians on staff, the hospital's primary service area has a growing population of nearly 104,000 residents.
 - 
                      
Three Rivers Healthcare, Poplar Bluff, Missouri is a 423-bed, two campus acute care hospital providing general acute care services, including emergency room services, neurosurgery, open-heart surgery, orthopedics and obstetrical services.  With approximately 141 physicians on staff, the hospital's primary service area has a growing population of more than 81,000 residents.
 - 
                      
Twin Rivers Regional Medical Center, Kennett, Missouri is a 116-bed acute care hospital providing general acute care services, including emergency room services, cardiology, orthopedics and obstetrical services.  With approximately 57 physicians on staff, the hospital's primary service population has a growing population of 40,000 residents.
 - 
                      
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates 114 acute care hospitals with 27,743 beds and numerous related health care services.  Tenet and its subsidiaries employ approximately 116,500 people serving communities in 16 states.  Tenet's name reflects its core business philosophy: the importance of shared values among partners - including employees, physicians, insurers and communities - in providing a full spectrum of health care.  Tenet can be found on the World Wide Web at www.tenethealth.com.
 
 
Certain statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements.  They are based on management's current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties.  Certain of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's transition report on Form 10-K for the 7-month period ended Dec. 31, 2002 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.  Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated.  We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 Albert Einstein Healthcare Network and Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) today announced that they have entered into a contract under which Albert Einstein Healthcare Network will acquire the Elkins Park Hospital facility from Tenet.  Within 60 days, Einstein and Tenet expect to complete the agreement, which includes the Elkins Park Hospital facility, equipment and the 30-acre parcel of land in Montgomery County on which it is located.
PHILADELPHIA, Pa.  Aug. 26, 2003
 
Einstein is purchasing the Elkins Park Hospital facility with the plan of relocating its nationally recognized medical rehabilitation provider, MossRehab, which is currently headquartered next to Albert Einstein Medical Center.  Elkins Park Hospital is approximately five miles from MossRehab's present location.
 
According to Barry R. Freedman, Einstein's President and CEO, "The acquisition of Elkins Park Hospital will allow us to quickly and cost-effectively enhance
 
MossRehab's inpatient and outpatient facilities and meet its growing needs for additional space, while also providing an opportunity to expand our services and improve access for our immediate community. We also see this acquisition as a means to further serve Montgomery County, which neighbors our primary market."
 
"We're very pleased to have reached a definitive agreement with an organization like Albert Einstein Healthcare Network that is committed to maintaining access to quality healthcare services in the Philadelphia community," said Trevor Fetter, Tenet's President and Acting Chief Executive Officer.  "We also are gratified that Albert Einstein Healthcare Network has committed to preserving the jobs of so many employees at Elkins Park.  The sale of Elkins Park Hospital will allow us to continue our focus on strengthening our remaining hospitals in Philadelphia."
 
Einstein is collaborating with Tenet to offer employment to a substantial number of eligible Elkins Park Hospital staff at Elkins Park Hospital, in Einstein's network and in available positions in the numerous Tenet Pennsylvania and Jefferson Health System member hospitals. Gross proceeds to Tenet from the sale are estimated at $13 million, including working capital. The transfer of ownership will be completed following the receipt of regulatory approvals.
 
During the next 60 days, Einstein will complete its planning for medical/rehabilitation services to be offered at Elkins Park Hospital, as well as the additional services in the vacated space at the Old York Road campus.
 
According to Freedman, some rehabilitation services are likely to remain at the current site; consequently, some MossRehab staff will remain at the Tabor Road location.  However, Einstein will offer other MossRehab employees and many Elkins
Park employees positions at the Elkins Park location. In addition, Einstein is working with Tenet to provide a seamless transition of care for patients and for the community.
 
Albert Einstein Healthcare Network, a member of the Jefferson Health System, provides healthcare services through Albert Einstein Medical Center, Germantown Community Health Services, Willow Terrace (a nursing home), MossRehab, Willowcrest (a center for subacute care), Belmont Behavioral Health and a number of outpatient and satellite locations.  Einstein also operates a primary care network, Einstein Neighborhood Healthcare.  For more information on Albert Einstein Healthcare Network, visit www.einstein.edu.
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates 114 acute care hospitals with 27,743 beds and numerous related health care services.  Tenet and its subsidiaries employ approximately 116,500 people serving communities in 16 states.  Tenet's name reflects its core business philosophy: the importance of shared values among partners - including employees, physicians, insurers and communities - in providing a full spectrum of health care.  Tenet can be found on the World Wide Web at www.tenethealth.com.
 
Certain statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements.  They are based on management's current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties.  Certain of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's transition report on Form 10-K for the 7-month period ended Dec. 31, 2002 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.  Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated.  We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) announced today that the company has signed a definitive agreement with Triad Hospitals, Inc. (NYSE: TRI) under which Triad will acquire four hospitals owned by Tenet subsidiaries in Arkansas.
SANTA BARBARA, Calif - Sept. 2, 2003 
 
Gross proceeds to Tenet from the sale of the four hospitals are estimated
at $175 million.  This includes $142 million for property, plant and equipment from Triad, less an $8 million credit for certain working capital items assumed at closing.  The gross proceeds also include approximately $33 million from liquidation of the remaining working capital.
 
The four facilities are Central Arkansas Hospital, a 193-bed facility in Searcy; National Park Medical Center, a 166-bed hospital in Hot Springs; Regional Medical Center of Northeast Arkansas, a 104-bed facility in Jonesboro, and Saint Mary's Regional Medical Center, a 170-bed hospital in Russellville.  The transaction is subject to the receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals.  Tenet expects to use proceeds of the sale for general corporate purposes.
 
"This transaction is a tribute to the quality of our entire portfolio of hospitals because it highlights their value to the communities they serve," said Trevor Fetter, Tenet's president and acting chief executive officer.  "While these four hospitals no longer fit our core operating strategy, we're very pleased to be handing them over to an operator who will maintain their reputation for caring excellence and community service."
 
In March, Tenet announced that it would divest or consolidate 14 hospitals that no longer fit the company's core operating strategy.  On Aug. 25, Tenet announced that it has reached a definitive agreement with Health Management Associates, Inc. under which HMA will acquire five hospitals owned by Tenet subsidiaries in Florida, Missouri and Tennessee.  On Aug. 26, Tenet and Albert Einstein Healthcare Network jointly announced that they have reached a definitive agreement under which Albert Einstein Healthcare Network will acquire Elkins Park Hospital in Philadelphia from a Tenet subsidiary.
 
In aggregate, the announced sales are expected to result in gross proceeds to Tenet, including working capital, of approximately $738 million.  Net proceeds for the three announced transactions are expected to be approximately $600 million after taxes and transaction costs.  Two of the 14 hospitals  Parkview Hospital in Philadelphia, Pa., and Santa Ana Hospital Medical Center in Santa Ana, Calif.  are in the process of closing.  Negotiations for the sale of the remaining two hospitals are ongoing and anticipated proceeds from these assets are not included in the figures above.
Here are brief profiles of the four hospitals being acquired by Triad:
 
Central Arkansas Hospital, a 193-bed acute care facility in Searcy, offers a full range of services including open heart surgery and a brain injury/neurosurgery program.
 - 
                      
 
National Park Medical Center is a 166-bed acute care hospital in Hot Springs, Arkansas.  Services include inpatient rehabilitation and inpatient psychiatry as well as a full range of acute services including open heart surgery, Level II neonatal intensive care unit, joint replacement surgery and neurosurgery.
 - 
                      
 
Regional Medical Center of NEA, a 104-bed acute care hospital in Jonesboro, provides a wide variety of services, including open heart surgery, neurosurgery, joint replacement surgery and obstetrics.
 - 
                      
 
Saint Mary's Regional Medical Center, a 170-bed acute care facility, is the only hospital in Russellville.  Saint Mary's offers a comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation facility as well as inpatient rehabilitation, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, cardiac catheterization, joint replacement surgery and obstetrics.
 - 
                      
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates 114 acute care hospitals with 27,743 beds and numerous related health care services.  Tenet and its subsidiaries employ approximately 116,500 people serving communities in 16 states.  Tenet's name reflects its core business philosophy: the importance of shared values among partners - including employees, physicians, insurers and communities - in providing a full spectrum of health care.  Tenet can be found on the World Wide Web at www.tenethealth.com.
 
Certain statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements.  They are based on management's current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties.  Certain of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's transition report on Form 10-K for the 7-month period ended Dec. 31, 2002 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.  Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated.  We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.


