FILE:THC/THC-8K-20031031172646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
On October 31, 2003, Tenet Healthcare Corporation issued a press release announcing that it will voluntarily cooperate with a new request for documents from the U.S. Attorney's office in Los Angeles.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  October 31, 2003
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation
Headquarters Office
3820 State Street
Santa Barbara, CA  93105
Tel 805.563.6855
Fax 805.563.6871
http://www.tenethealth.com
 
 
 
Oct. 31, 2003 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) announced today that it will voluntarily cooperate with a new request for documents from the U.S. Attorney's office in Los Angeles, primarily regarding certain cardiac physician arrangements, coronary procedures and billing practices at three Los Angeles-area hospitals owned by Tenet subsidiaries.  The three are Centinela Hospital Medical Center, Daniel Freeman Memorial Hospital and USC University Hospital.
 
Last July, Tenet disclosed that it had received administrative subpoenas from the U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles seeking information primarily about physician relocation agreements at seven Southern California hospitals owned by Tenet subsidiaries, including Centinela and Daniel Freeman.  The new request for documents came Thursday afternoon, after a Tenet representative met with the U.S. Attorney's office and agreed to provide documents and cooperate with the government's inquiry.
 
 
Tenet said it will promptly assemble the requested information, which includes broad categories of documents and records from 1998 to the present.
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates 112 acute care hospitals with 27,424 beds and numerous related health care services.  Tenet and its subsidiaries employ approximately 113,526 people serving communities in 16 states.  Tenet's name reflects its core business philosophy: the importance of shared values among partners - including employees, physicians, insurers and communities - in providing a full spectrum of health care.  Tenet can be found on the World Wide Web at www.tenethealth.com.
 
 
Certain statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements.  They are based on management's current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties.  Certain of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's transition report on Form 10-K for the 7-month period ended Dec. 31, 2002 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.  Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated.  We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
 


