FILE:THC/THC-8K-20031017132829.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM 9.
         
Tenet Receives Additional DOJ Subpoena in Medicare Outlier Investigations.
 
On October 17, 2003, Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release stating that it had received an additional subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office in Los Angeles that it understands is related to the previously disclosed investigation of Medicare outlier payments to hospitals owned by certain of the Company's subsidiaries.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Press Release issued on October 17, 2003.
99.1
        

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation Headquarters Office 3820 State Street Santa Barbara, CA  93105 Tel 805.563.6855 Fax 805.563.6871 http://www.tenethealth.com
 
 
 
 Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) said today it received an additional subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office in Los Angeles that it understands is related to the previously disclosed investigation of Medicare outlier payments to hospitals owned by certain of the company's subsidiaries.
Oct. 17, 2003
 
The subpoena seeks medical and billing records from 1998 to the present for certain identified patients who were treated at two Los Angeles-area facilities owned by Tenet subsidiaries  Tarzana Regional Medical Center and USC University Hospital.  Additionally, the subpoena seeks personnel information concerning certain managers at those facilities during that period, as well as information about the two hospitals' gross charges for the same time period.
 
The company said it will continue to cooperate with the Department of Justice regarding this matter.
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates 112 acute care hospitals with 27,474 beds and numerous related health care services.  Tenet and its subsidiaries employ approximately 113,526 people serving communities in 16 states.  Tenet's name reflects its
core business philosophy: the importance of shared values among partners - including employees, physicians, insurers and communities - in providing a full spectrum of health care.  Tenet can be found on the World Wide Web at www.tenethealth.com.
 
 
Certain statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements.  They are based on management's current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties.  Certain of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's transition report on Form 10-K for the 7-month period ended Dec. 31, 2002 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.  Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated.  We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.


