FILE:THC/THC-8K-20060119075522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously disclosed, the SEC is investigating Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") in relation to allegations made by a former employee that inappropriate contractual allowances for managed care contracts may have been established at three California hospitals through at least fiscal year 2001. At the request of the audit committee of the Company's board of directors (the "Audit Committee"), the board's independent outside counsel, Debevoise & Plimpton LLP ("Debevoise"), conducted an investigation of these allegations utilizing the forensic accounting services of Huron Consulting Group ("Huron").  This investigation was expanded and included determining whether similar issues might have affected other Tenet hospitals during the periods mentioned in the allegations and any other pertinent periods. Debevoise and Huron completed their investigation of the first half of fiscal year 2005 and fiscal year 2004 in September 2005.  Based on the results of the then-completed phase of the investigation, the Company concluded at the time that no adjustments were required to the Company's financial statements for fiscal 2004 and the first two quarters of fiscal 2005.
 
Debevoise and Huron have now completed their investigation of periods from June 1, 1999 to December 31, 2003.  At a meeting on January 17, 2006, they presented the results of their findings for those periods to the Audit Committee.  Based on the findings, the Audit Committee has determined that it is necessary for the Company to restate its previously reported financial statements for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002, the seven-month transition period ended December 31, 2002, and the calendar years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004.  The findings do not result in any required adjustments to the Company's financial statements for the first three quarters of 2005. The applicable restated financial results will be included in the Company's 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
The restatement adjustments primarily relate to the following issues:
 
Some contractual allowances and other reserves recorded at certain hospitals lacked adequate supporting documentation or were otherwise inappropriate.
 - 
                 
Certain revenues related to a managed care payor in bankruptcy, and revenues related to Medicaid disproportionate share payments and Medicare outpatient revenues under the then new Medicare outpatient prospective payment system ("OPPS") should have been recognized in earlier periods.
 - 
                 
The Company's estimated professional and general liability reserves were not adequately increased in earlier periods as a result of a prior management decision that the effect of this adjustment would have been immaterial when offset against other unrecorded adjustments in the same period.
 - 
                 
 
These adjustments impact various hospitals of the Company, including certain adjustments that impacted the three California hospitals identified to the SEC by the former employee.  The 2004 income tax impact of the above restatement adjustments is discussed below.
 
The approximate impact of the restatement adjustments related to continuing and discontinued operations combined is anticipated to be as follows:
 
Solely due to the rollforward impact of the above adjustments on the Company's utilization of net operating loss ("NOL") deductions for tax purposes, the Company's 2004 financial statements also need to be restated.  In 2004, the Company reported an NOL for tax purposes, a portion of which was carried back resulting in a refund of taxes paid in the seven-month transition period ended December 31, 2002 and the year ended December 31, 2003, and the remainder of which will be carried forward to reduce taxes payable in future years.  The restatement adjustments affecting the seven-month transition period ended December 31, 2002 and the year ended December 31, 2003 will effectively increase the 2004 NOL available for carry forward to reduce taxes payable in future years, thereby resulting in an increase in deferred tax assets.  In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, a valuation allowance must be recorded if, more likely than not, realization of the deferred tax asset is not assured.  The Company has determined that the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets must be increased as of December 31, 2004, which is the first period the Company recorded a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets.  The increase in the valuation allowance will result in a charge of approximately $47 million or $0.10 per share in the year ended December 31, 2004, and will reduce ending shareholders' equity at December 31, 2004 by $47 million.
 
As a result of the foregoing, the Company's previously reported financial statements for all periods to be restated should no longer be relied upon.  These restatements will not affect the Company's 2005 financial statements.  The adjustments noted above could change prior to the filing of the Company's 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
The Audit Committee has discussed this information with KPMG LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm.
 
 
On April 8, 2005, the Company filed with the SEC a Form S-4 registration statement to register $800 million principal amount of 9% Senior Notes ("Senior Notes") due 2015 to be issued and offered in exchange for the unregistered senior notes sold in January 2005.  During the pendency of the investigation described above, and until the restated financials are filed, the Company has been and remains unable to cause the registration statement to be declared effective by the SEC.  As a result of these delays, the registration statement will not be declared effective by January 20, 2006, as required under the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement dated as of January 28, 2005 (the "Registration Rights Agreement").  Consequently, the Company must pay to each holder of the Senior Notes affected thereby, as liquidated damages, special interest, in addition to the interest accrued on the Senior Notes under the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement and the Indenture governing the Senior Notes.  The special interest will accrue at a per annum rate of 0.25% for the 90-day period commencing on January 20, 2006, at a per annum rate of 0.50% for the next 90-day period, at a per annum rate of 0.75% for the subsequent 90-day period and at a per annum rate of 1.0% thereafter for any remaining time period until the registration statement is declared effective, at which time the special interest shall cease (provided no other default under the Registration Rights Agreement exists at such time).
 
The Company issued a press release relating to these matters on January 19, 2006.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and the information incorporated herein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  January 19, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
 
newsrelease
 
Headquarters Office
13737 Noel Road, Ste. 100
 
Dallas, TX 75240
tel: 469.893.2000
fax: 469.893.8600
www.tenethealth.com
 
Contacts:                                                       
  Harry Anderson (469) 893-6306
Media:     
     Thomas Rice (469) 893-2522
Investors: 
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) announced today that, based on results of a previously disclosed special investigation regarding contractual allowances for managed care contracts that the company's audit committee commissioned in mid-2005 at the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the audit committee has determined that the company will restate its financial results for fiscal years 2000, 2001 and 2002, the seven months ended Dec. 31, 2002, and the full year ended Dec. 31, 2003.  Solely as a result of these restatements and their effect on the company's deferred tax asset valuation, Tenet said it will also restate its previously reported 2004 results to take an income tax charge of $47 million.
DALLAS - Jan. 19, 2006 
 
The company said no change is required for the company's previously reported results for the first three quarters of 2005.
 
In essence, the restatements will mean that certain reserves that had been recorded earlier will be reversed and certain revenues and expenses will be recognized sooner than originally reported.  The effect of the restatements will be to increase reported results for fiscal years ended May 31, 2000, 2001
and 2002, and to reduce results for the seven months ended Dec. 31, 2002 and the full year ended Dec. 31, 2003.
 
Specifically, the restatements are expected to increase previously reported net income in fiscal 2000 ended May 31, 2000 by  approximately $22 million or 5 cents per share; increase previously reported net income in fiscal 2001 ended May 31, 2001 by approximately $17 million or 3 cents per share; increase previously reported net income in fiscal year 2002 ended May 31, 2002 by approximately $30 million or 6 cents per share; reduce previously reported net income by approximately $15 million or 3 cents per share in the "stub period" of seven months ended Dec. 31, 2002 (when the company converted to a calendar-year reporting basis); and increase a previously reported net loss by approximately $55 million or 12 cents per share in the year ended Dec. 31, 2003.
 
The company today filed a Form 8-K with the SEC with additional details of the anticipated prior-year restatements.  It noted that the restatement amounts are subject to adjustment until fully audited results for the restated periods are reported in Tenet's 2005 annual report on Form 10-K, which is expected to be filed on or about Feb. 28, 2006.
 
The company said that, as a percentage of total net income or loss as originally reported, the restatements would likely result in an increase or decrease ranging from 3 percent to 9 percent in 2000-2003.  The impact on fully diluted earnings or loss per share would likely range from 3 percent to 9 percent.
 
Tenet said the anticipated adjustments result primarily from contractual allowances and other reserves that lacked adequate supporting documentation or were otherwise inappropriate, as well as certain revenues and expenses that should have been recognized in these same earlier periods.  The $47 million income tax charge, equal to 10 cents per share, to be taken for the year ended Dec. 31, 2004, relates solely to the impact of the restatements on a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets previously established by the company.
"This was a thorough, fully independent investigation that was conducted over nearly nine months, and the results were reported directly to the members of our audit committee," said Trevor Fetter, Tenet's president and chief executive officer.  "The investigation did not find any widespread issues with contractual allowances for managed care accounts across the company.  But it did turn up problems that require restatements of certain prior-year results."
 
Fetter added, "We continue to address the legacy of mistakes made by this company in the past.  Since 2003, we have made and continue to make real and profound changes to enhance all aspects of Tenet's operations. Among these have been dramatic improvements to financial oversight at all levels.  These include an electronic system to provide much greater visibility at the corporate level into the judgments surrounding critical accounting reserve estimates at the hospital level, improved accuracy of our reserve estimation process, and greatly enhanced disclosure controls and procedures to provide management with better insight into hospital and regional accounting decisions."
 
Fetter said other changes that have been or will be implemented include additional enhancements to Tenet's financial reporting system including changes in internal audit processes and reporting, new procedures for hospital-based balance sheet reviews, enhanced tracking of the impact of current period adjustments on prior periods, and additional procedures and training on reserving policies and contractual adjustment issues.
 
Tenet disclosed in July 2005 that the SEC had asked the company to investigate allegations the commission had received from a former company employee.  The former employee had alleged that inappropriate managed care reserves may have been taken at three Tenet hospitals in California through at least fiscal 2001.
 
To determine whether any systemic financial reporting problems had occurred at Tenet, the audit committee directed that the investigation should go well beyond the specific request made by the SEC to encompass an assessment of hospital managed care contractual adjustments throughout the company going back five years.  (Contractual allowances are common, critical accounting estimates used within
the health care industry, as providers make judgments about when to book certain revenues they expect to receive from managed care companies and other payers.)
 
The investigation found several other reserve issues unrelated to managed care contractual allowances for which the company will make adjustments as part of the prior-year restatements.  The approximate adjustments in the Form 8-K filed today include these amounts as well.
 
To conduct the special investigation, the audit committee engaged independent legal counsel through the national law firm of Debevoise & Plimpton LLC as well as Huron Consulting Group, a nationally respected forensic accounting firm.
 
Although the anticipated restatements should not affect Tenet's basic credit status, the company noted in its Form 8-K that the length of time it has taken to complete the special investigation has delayed the effective date of its previously filed Form S-4 registration statement for $800 million principal amount of 9 percent senior notes due 2015.  The delay means that, as required under the terms of the notes, the company will pay each holder of the senior notes special interest in addition to the interest accrued on the notes.  The special interest is accrued at an annual rate of 0.25 percent for the first 90 days that the effective date is delayed beyond Jan. 20, 2006, 0.5 percent for the second 90-day period, 0.75 percent for the third 90-day period and 1 percent thereafter until the registration statement is declared effective by the SEC.
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates acute care hospitals and related health care services.  Tenet's hospitals aim to provide the best possible care to every patient who comes through their doors, with a clear focus on quality and service.  Tenet can be found on the World Wide Web at www.tenethealth.com.
 
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Dec. 31, 2004, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and periodic reports on Form 8-K.  Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated.  We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.


