FILE:THC/THC-8K-20070416172131.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC  20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
Date of Report:  April 12, 2007
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
 
TENET HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
13737 Noel Road
Dallas, Texas  75240
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
 
(469) 893-2200
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
             
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
             
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
             
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
             
 
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Item 5.02
           
On April 12, 2007, Tenet Healthcare Corporation ("Tenet" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing that John Ellis "Jeb" Bush, former Governor of the State of Florida, had been named to Tenet's board of directors effective April 11, 2007.  The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Mr. Bush has consented to stand for election as a director at Tenet's 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 10, 2007 and to serve, if elected.  He currently does not serve on any committees of the board of directors.
Mr. Bush is eligible to participate in all compensation plans applicable to the members of Tenet's board of directors, as described in the Company's 2007 Proxy Statement.  Under Tenet's 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, on the last Thursday of any month in which a new non-employee director is elected to the board, the director receives an automatic restricted stock unit grant equal to four times the then-existing annual director retainer divided by the New York Stock Exchange closing price of Tenet's common stock on the date of the grant.
The Company is not currently a participant in any transaction, and there are no currently proposed transactions for the Company, in which Mr. Bush and his immediate family members have a direct or indirect material interest.
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3

Exhibit 99.1
                                                      
news
release
  
 
 
DALLAS  April 12, 2007 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) announced today that former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush has been appointed a director by the company's board.  He becomes the board's tenth member.
Bush, 54, was elected Florida's governor in 1998 and retired in January 2007, after completing two successful terms in office.  While governor, he was instrumental in pursuing state tax cuts, reforming the state educational system and restructuring state health care programs.
"We are honored that Gov. Bush has agreed to join our board," said Edward Kangas, the nonexecutive chairman of Tenet's board.  "Tenet will greatly benefit from his broad knowledge of health care and his deep experience with government and regulatory issues.  His wisdom and compassion are a perfect complement to our strong, independent board."
Gov. Bush said, "As I have researched Tenet, I have been very impressed by the company's commitment to improving patient care as well as the board's commitment to strong corporate governance and transparency.  I care deeply about the future of health care in this country, and I'm delighted to be affiliated with Tenet, a leading company in this field."
Former Sen. J. Robert Kerrey (D-Neb.), chairman of the nominating and corporate governance committee of Tenet's board, said, "All of us on the board are delighted that former Gov. Jeb Bush has chosen Tenet as the first corporate board he will join since leaving office.  I believe his decision to join us reflects the real strides the company has made in recent years to build a solid foundation for future growth based on integrity and quality."
Trevor Fetter, Tenet's president and chief executive officer, said, "Gov. Bush was a successful, hands-on chief executive of a very large and diverse state.  Florida is Tenet's second largest market, and his counsel and advice on our board will be invaluable to me and to our hospital managers."
- more -
Gov. Bush was born in Midland, Texas, and graduated magna cum laude from the University of Texas at Austin with a bachelor's degree in Latin American studies.  After graduation, he worked in various positions at Texas Commerce Bank in Houston and in Venezuela.  He and his family moved to South Florida in 1980, where he worked as a real estate executive.
He began his political career in 1986 as chairman of the Dade County Republican Party.  After an unsuccessful campaign for Florida governor in 1994, he formed a non-profit think tank to help influence public policy in the state before winning the governorship in 1998.
Gov. Bush will stand for election by shareholders to a one-year term as director at Tenet's annual meeting, which will be held in Dallas on May 10.  The company will amend its recently filed proxy statement and mail supplemental information and new proxy cards to its shareholders to add Gov. Bush to the list of director nominees.
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates acute care hospitals and related health care services.  Tenet's hospitals aim to provide the best possible care to every patient who comes through their doors, with a clear focus on quality and service.  Tenet can be found on the World Wide Web at www.tenethealth.com.
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and periodic reports on Form 8-K.  Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated.  We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.


