FILE:THC/THC-8K-20070406170841.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC  20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
Date of Report:  April 2, 2007
(Date of earliest event reported)
 
 
TENET HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
13737 Noel Road
Dallas, Texas  75240
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
 
(469) 893-2200
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
              
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
              
 
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Item 5.02
           
On April 6, 2007, Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the retirement of Timothy L. Pullen, the Company's executive vice president and chief accounting officer.  In November 2005, Mr. Pullen agreed to serve as the Company's interim chief financial officer and, in January 2006, agreed to remain at Tenet through a transition period following the appointment of a new chief financial officer.  Biggs C. Porter became the Company's chief financial officer in June 2006.
Mr. Pullen ceased to serve as the Company's principal accounting officer effective April 2, 2007; however, he will remain at Tenet until May 8, 2007, after the filing of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.  Effective April 2, 2007, and for purposes of that Quarterly Report, Tenet's controller, Daniel J. Cancelmi, became the Company's principal accounting officer.  In addition, Mr. Cancelmi will continue to serve as vice president and controller, responsible for financial reporting, internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, accounts payable, payroll, and capital and property accounting.
Mr. Cancelmi, 44, has served as the Company's vice president and controller since September 2004.  He joined Tenet in November 1998 as chief financial officer of Hahnemann University Hospital in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.  He was promoted to vice president and assistant controller of the Company, based in Dallas, Texas, in September 1999.  Prior to joining Tenet, Mr. Cancelmi served as senior director of the Allegheny Health, Education and Research Foundation in Pittsburgh, and before that worked for nine years in public accounting at Coopers & Lybrand in Pittsburgh and New York City.  He is a certified public accountant and holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from Duquesne University in Pittsburgh.
In connection with serving as the Company's principal accounting officer, Mr. Cancelmi will receive a salary increase commensurate with his increased responsibilities.  Otherwise, he will continue to receive those benefits to which he is currently entitled as vice president and controller of the Company.
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3

Exhibit 99.1
                            
news
release
  
 
DALLAS  April 6, 2007 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) announced today that Timothy L. Pullen, executive vice president and chief accounting officer, has decided to retire once the company completes its financial reporting for the first quarter ended March 31, 2007.
The company also announced that Daniel J. Cancelmi, 44, has been named Tenet's principal accounting officer, effective April 2.  In addition, Cancelmi will continue as vice president and controller, responsible for financial reporting, internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, accounts payable, government programs, payroll, and capital and property accounting.  He reports to Biggs C. Porter, chief financial officer.
"Tim Pullen's unquestioned integrity and long experience have played an invaluable role in helping Tenet resolve its serious financial and legal challenges over the past four years," Porter said.  "With those challenges now behind us, we respect his decision to retire from Tenet and pursue other endeavors at this time, and we wish him well."
Porter added, "We are fortunate to have someone of Dan Cancelmi's caliber and ability already with us, and we look forward to his leadership as our new principal accounting officer."
- more -
Pullen, 51, joined The Hillhaven Corporation, a subsidiary of one of Tenet's predecessor companies, in 1983, eventually becoming that unit's vice president, finance.  He joined Tenet's corporate finance team in 1995 as vice president and controller.  He was named to his current position in August 2003.
Cancelmi joined Tenet in November 1998, as chief financial officer of Hahnemann University Hospital in Philadelphia.  He was promoted to the company's vice president and assistant controller in September 1999, and to his current position in September 2004.
Before joining Tenet, Cancelmi served as senior director of the Allegheny Health, Education and Research Foundation in Pittsburgh, and prior to that served nine years in various positions with the accounting firm of Coopers & Lybrand in Pittsburgh and New York City.
He is a certified public accountant and holds a bachelor of science degree in accounting from Duquesne University in Pittsburgh.
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates acute care hospitals and related health care services.  Tenet's hospitals aim to provide the best possible care to every patient who comes through their doors, with a clear focus on quality and service.  Tenet can be found on the World Wide Web at www.tenethealth.com.
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and periodic reports on Form 8-K.  Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated.  We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
[NOTE TO EDITORS:  A digital photograph of Tim Pullen or Dan Cancelmi is available by email on request.  Please call Valeria Wilkes in Tenet's Corporate Communications department at (469) 893-6114.]


