FILE:THC/THC-8K-20081104073125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained herein is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition." This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On November 4, 2008, Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the financial results of the Company for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 4, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE:THC) today reported net income of $104 million, or $0.22 per share, for its third quarter of 2008, compared to a net loss of $59 million, or $0.12 per share, for its third quarter of 2007. Net income in the third quarter of 2008 included pre-tax gains on sales of investments of $140 million. Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term defined below, was $156 million for the third quarter of 2008 as compared to $164 million for the third quarter of 2007. Excluding $10 million of favorable prior year cost report adjustments from the third quarter of 2008 and $21 million of favorable prior year cost report adjustments from the third quarter of 2007, adjusted EBITDA increased by $3 million, or 2.1 percent. On a same-hospital basis, adjusted EBITDA was $160 million, a decline of $4 million, or 2.4 percent, as compared to $164 million in the third quarter of 2007. Excluding prior year cost report adjustments from both quarters, same-hospital adjusted EBITDA increased by $7 million, or 4.9 percent. Two hospitals, Irvine Regional Hospital and Medical Center and Community Hospital of Los Gatos, were moved to discontinued operations in the third quarter of 2008.
DALLAS  November 4, 2008 
"We are very pleased to report another quarter of strong volume growth. We achieved growth in paying admissions of 2.0 percent and an even stronger 2.3 percent growth in paying outpatient visits," said Trevor Fetter, president and chief executive officer. "This is our fourth consecutive quarter of positive admissions growth and the first quarter in five years in which we have achieved growth in total outpatient visits. These are both gratifying results and represent an important measure of our progress. However, growth in commercial admissions lagged, and we absorbed an increase in bad debt expense. While a softening economy may have constrained the robust momentum evident earlier in the year, we are confident we are on the right track, and we remain committed to our growth strategies."
"Our volume picture continues to benefit from the accelerating net growth in our active medical staffs which grew by 426 physicians, or 3.3 percent, in the third quarter," said Stephen L. Newman, M.D., chief operating officer. "By the end of September we had already added 900 physicians net of attrition putting us well within reach of our goal of achieving net expansion of our active medical staff by 1,000 physicians in 2008. We are very excited about the longer term potential these new physicians can be expected to have on our ability to drive targeted growth in government and commercial volumes."
"Our operating results softened due to pressures from higher than expected bad debt and an adverse mix shift," said Biggs C. Porter, chief financial officer. "Pricing continues to be a source of strength. Commercial revenues grew by 5.6 percent despite a 3.4 percent decline in commercial admissions. Our earnings were restrained by the need to absorb an incremental $4 million in expenses related to Hurricane Ike and an adverse swing of $11 million in cost report adjustments as compared to last year's third quarter. We also experienced a significant $32 million increase in same-hospital supply costs although this increase was partially offset by incremental revenues directly linked to the rising cost of supplies. Reflecting the impact of these items which constrained adjusted EBITDA through September 30 to $533 million and the recent weakness in the macroeconomic environment, we are revising our outlook for 2008 net income to breakeven to $75 million and our outlook for adjusted EBITDA to a range of $700 to 750 million."
Continuing Operations
Income from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2008 was $114 million, or $0.24 per share, including the following items with an aggregate, net favorable impact of $160 million pre-tax, $146 million after-tax or $0.30 per share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stock-based compensation expense, included in salaries, wages and benefits, was $7 million pre-tax, $4 million after-tax before deferred tax valuation allowance, or $0.01 per share, in the third quarter of 2008 compared to $9 million pre-tax, $6 million after-tax, or $0.01 per share in the third quarter of 2007.
Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term defined below, was $156 million, or a margin of 7.2 percent of net operating revenues, in the third quarter of 2008. This represents a decrease of $8 million, or 4.9 percent, from adjusted EBITDA of $164 million in the third quarter of 2007, and a margin decline of 80 basis points as compared to an adjusted EBITDA margin of 8.0 percent in the third quarter of 2007. Adjusted EBITDA was $533 million for the first nine months of 2008 as compared to $501 million for the first nine months of 2007, an increase of $32 million, or 6.4 percent.
Same-hospital adjusted EBITDA was $160 million in the third quarter of 2008, a decrease of $4 million, or 2.4 percent, from $164 million in the third quarter of 2007. Same-hospital adjusted EBITDA margin decreased by 60 basis points to 7.5 percent in the third quarter of 2008 as compared to the same-hospital adjusted EBITDA margin of 8.1 percent in the third quarter of 2007. For the first nine months of 2008, same-hospital adjusted EBITDA was $551 million, an increase of $50 million, or 10.0 percent, as compared to $501 million for the first nine months of 2007.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP term defined by the Company as net income (loss) before: (1) the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, net of tax; (2) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax; (3) income tax (expense) benefit; (4) net gain (loss) on sales of investments; (5) minority interests; (6) investment earnings; (7) interest expense; (8) litigation and investigation (costs) benefit; (9) hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs; (10) impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries; (11) amortization; and (12) depreciation. A reconciliation of net income (loss) to adjusted EBITDA is provided in Table #1 at the end of this release.
Same-Hospital Data
At September 30, 2008, there were 50 hospitals in total-hospital continuing operations, a net decline of two hospitals from the 52 hospitals reported in total-hospital continuing operations at June 30, 2008. This reduction reflects the reclassification of Irvine Regional Hospital and Medical Center and Community Hospital of Los Gatos into discontinued operations.
Same-hospital continuing operations data excludes two hospitals: (1) Coastal Carolina Medical Center, which we acquired on June 30, 2007; and (2) Sierra Providence East Medical Center, which opened on May 21, 2008. Same-hospital continuing operations data is the primary form of tabular data presentation in the narrative
 
sections of this document. There are currently 48 hospitals in same-hospital continuing operations. The Company intends to add Coastal Carolina Medical Center to same-hospital continuing operations beginning on January 1, 2009.
Total-hospital data, including Coastal Carolina Medical Center and Sierra Providence East Medical Center, is provided in the tabular presentation of data at the end of this document. As a result of this approach, certain amounts in the narrative section of this document will not tie to amounts in the condensed consolidated statement of operations.
Admissions, Patient Days and Surgeries
 
 
Our California, Florida and Central Regions all achieved admissions growth of 2.3 percent or better. This strong growth was partially offset by an admissions decline of 2.4 percent in our Southern States Region.
A reduced number of commercial managed care obstetrics admissions accounted for approximately half of the third quarter admissions decline in commercial managed care. Obstetrics is not typically a service line the Company emphasizes within its Targeted Growth Initiative ("TGI").
 
Outpatient Visits
 
 
Paying outpatient visits (excludes uninsured and charity outpatient visits) increased by 2.3 percent in the third quarter of 2008 as compared to the third quarter of 2007. Our growth in outpatient visits continues to be adversely impacted by increasing competition from physician-owned entities providing outpatient services.
Outpatient visits at our freestanding ambulatory surgery centers were unchanged from the third quarter of 2007. A key factor contributing to the decline in charity visits is the recent expansion of a county government clinic near one of our hospitals.
Revenues
 
 
 
Net operating revenues increased by $106 million, or 5.2 percent, from the third quarter of 2007 to the third quarter of 2008. Excluding $10 million of favorable prior year cost report and valuation allowance adjustments from net operating revenues for the third quarter of 2008 and $21 million of favorable prior year cost report adjustments in the third quarter of 2007, net operating revenues increased by $117 million, or 5.8 percent.
Uninsured revenues declined by 4.4 percent despite the growth in uninsured admissions of 4.9 percent. This was partially due to the 6.3 percent decline in uninsured outpatient visits as well as a decline in certain types of uninsured surgery procedures, which contributed to a decline in the average revenue per uninsured admission.
Pricing
 
While pricing improvement was evident across all key metrics, primarily reflecting the improved terms of our commercial managed care contracts, the increases were restrained by an adverse mix shift reflecting the loss of commercial volumes and an $11 million decline in the amount of favorable cost report and valuation allowance adjustments in the third quarter of 2008 compared to the third quarter of 2007. Outpatient pricing outpaced the growth in inpatient pricing due to an improving mix of procedures performed in our outpatient facilities. Recent acquisitions of free-standing outpatient facilities have enhanced our outpatient mix by contributing to the growth in the number of outpatient surgeries and the clinical intensity of these procedures.
Controllable Operating Expenses
 
 
 
On a per adjusted patient day basis, salaries, wages and benefits increased 2.5 percent in the third quarter of 2008 as compared to the third quarter of 2007. This increase is primarily due to merit increases for our employees and increased annual incentive compensation costs, health benefits and retirement plans costs, partially offset by declines in full-time employee headcount, contract labor expense, stock compensation expense, and improved workers' compensation loss experience. Contract labor expense, which is included in salaries, wages and benefits, was $34 million in the third quarter of 2008, a decrease of $5 million, or 12.8 percent, as compared to $39 million in the third quarter of 2007.
Supplies expense per adjusted patient day increased by 7.3 percent in the third quarter of 2008 as compared to the third quarter of 2007. The increase in supplies expense is primarily due to the increased number of surgeries as well as the higher costs for implants and pacemakers reflecting increased volumes, technology improvements and inflationary price increases, and higher pharmaceutical costs due to a shift in the mix of services at some of our hospitals. These increases were partially offset by lower cardiovascular costs, resulting from a decline in cardiovascular procedures. A portion of the increase in supplies expanse is offset by revenue growth related to pass-through payments we receive from certain payers.
"Other Operating Expenses" per adjusted patient day increased by 4.7 percent in the third quarter of 2008 as compared to the third quarter of 2007. The net increase is due to a number of items including:
 
 
 
 
 
The "Other Operating Expenses" line item includes malpractice expense, which was $31 million in the third quarter of 2008, a decline of $7 million, or 18.4 percent, compared to $38 million in the third quarter of 2007. This decrease is primarily attributable to improved claims experience, partially offset by $4 million of incremental expense related to the lower interest rate environment, which increased the discounted present value of projected future liabilities.
Provision for Doubtful Accounts
 
 
(a) This change is the difference between the Q3'08 and Q3'07 amounts shown.
The bad debt ratio was flat at 7.6 percent relative to the third quarter of 2007. Improved point of service collections and improved insurance balances by aging category are partially mitigating the negative impact on bad debt resulting from the growth in self-pay accounts assigned to collection agencies, a slight decline in self-pay collection trends since the first half of 2008, pricing increases and improved charge capture in our emergency departments.
 
Accounts Receivable
Consolidated accounts receivable were $1.356 billion at September 30, 2008 and $1.450 billion at June 30, 2008. Accounts receivable days outstanding from continuing operations were 51 days at September 30, 2008, compared to 53 days at June 30, 2008.
Cash Flow
Cash and cash equivalents were $512 million at September 30, 2008, an increase of $160 million from $352 million at June 30, 2008. Adjusted Free Cash Flow, defined below, was positive $30 million in the third quarter of 2008 compared to negative $87 million in the third quarter of 2007.
"Adjusted Free Cash Flow", a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as cash flow provided by (used in) operating activities less (1) capital expenditures in continuing operations, (2) new and replacement hospital construction expenditures, (3) income tax refunds (payments), net, (4) net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations, and (5) payments against reserves for restructuring charges, litigation costs and settlements. The reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted Free Cash Flow is provided in Table #2 at the end of this release.
Significant cash receipts and disbursements in the third quarter of 2008 included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $151 million in the third quarter of 2008 as compared to $83 million in the third quarter of 2007, an increase of $68 million. Key factors contributing to the increase in cash provided by operating activities in the third quarter of 2008 compared to the third quarter of 2007 include the following:
 
 
 
 
Outlook for 2008 and 2009
In light of the Company's nine months adjusted EBITDA of $533 million and a weakening macroeconomic environment, the Company's outlook for 2008 net income has been revised to breakeven to $75 million and the outlook for adjusted EBITDA has been revised to a range of $700 million to $750 million. The Company intends to provide its 2009 outlook when its fourth quarter results are released in February 2009.
A reconciliation of the Company's outlook for 2008 adjusted EBITDA to net income for the year ending December 31, 2008 is provided in Table #3; and a reconciliation of revised outlook for adjusted net cash provided by operating activities and outlook adjusted free cash flow from continuing operations to outlook net cash provided by operating activities for the year ending December 31, 2008 is provided in Table #4 at the end of this document.
Management's Webcast Discussion of Third Quarter Results
Tenet management will discuss third quarter 2008 results on a webcast scheduled to begin at 10:00 AM (ET) on November 4, 2008. This webcast may be accessed through Tenet website at . A set of slides will be posted to the Company's website at approximately 7:30 AM (ET), which may be referred to during management's remarks.
www.tenethealth.com
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates acute care hospitals and related ancillary health care businesses, which include ambulatory surgery centers and diagnostic imaging centers. Tenet is committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities we serve. Tenet can be found on the World Wide Web at .
www.tenethealth.com
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2007, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and periodic reports on Form 8-K. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as net income (loss) before (1) cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, net of tax, (2) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, (3) income tax (expense) benefit, (4) net gain (loss) on sales of investments, (5) minority interests, (6) investment earnings, (7) interest expense, (8) litigation and investigation (costs) benefit, (9) hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs, (10) impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill, and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries, (11) amortization, and (12) depreciation. The Company's adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to EBITDA reported by other companies.
The Company provides this information as a supplement to GAAP information to assist itself and investors in understanding the impact of various items on its financial statements, some of which are recurring or involve cash payments. The Company uses this information in its analysis of the performance of its business excluding items that it does not consider as relevant in the performance of its hospitals in continuing operations. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure of liquidity, but is a measure of operating performance that management uses in its business as an alternative to net income (loss). Because Adjusted EBITDA excludes many items that are included in our financial statements, it does not provide a complete measure of our operating performance. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to use GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's financial performance.
The reconciliation of net income (loss), the most comparable GAAP term, to adjusted EBITDA, is set forth in the first table below for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007.
(2) Adjusted Free Cash Flow
Adjusted Free Cash Flow, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as cash flow provided by (used in) operating activities less capital expenditures in continuing operations, new and replacement hospital construction expenditures, income tax refunds (payments)  net, payments against reserves for restructuring charges and litigation costs and settlements, and net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations. The Company believes the use of Adjusted Free Cash Flow is meaningful as the use of this financial measure provides the Company and the users of its financial statements with supplemental information about the impact on the Company's cash flows from the items specified above. The Company provides this information as a supplement to GAAP information to assist itself and investors in understanding the impact of various items on its cash flows, some of which are recurring. The Company uses this information in its analysis of its cash flows excluding items that it does not consider relevant to the liquidity of its hospitals in continuing operations going forward. Adjusted Free Cash Flow is a measure of liquidity that management uses in its business as an alternative to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. Because Adjusted Free Cash Flow excludes many items that are included in our financial statements, it does not provide a complete measure of our liquidity. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to use GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's financial performance or liquidity. The reconciliation of net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted Free Cash Flow is set forth in the second table below for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


