FILE:THC/THC-8K-20090505073312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained herein is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition." This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On May 5, 2009, Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the financial results of the Company for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE:THC) today reported net income attributable to shareholders of $178 million, or $0.37 per share, for its first quarter of 2009, compared to a net loss attributable to shareholders of $31 million, or $0.06 per share, for its first quarter of 2008. Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term defined below, was $276 million for the first quarter of 2009, an increase of $61 million, or 28.4
DALLAS  May 5, 2009 
percent, as compared to $215 million for the first quarter of 2008. On a same-hospital basis, adjusted EBITDA was $273 million, an increase of $56 million, or 25.8 percent, as compared to $217 million in the first quarter of 2008.
"Excellent cost control at all levels of our enterprise led to a very strong first quarter with adjusted EBITDA growing by 28 percent compared to the first quarter of 2008," said Trevor Fetter, president and chief executive officer. "Cash flow was also solid, driven by increased earnings and careful control of working capital and capital expenditures. While there is no question that a weak economy continues to have an adverse impact on patient volumes, our many initiatives to better serve our communities and physicians kept volume declines to a minimum, with total admissions declining by just 1.3 percent from the first quarter of 2008, or virtually flat after adjusting for the loss of the Leap Year day versus 2008. I am also pleased that our multi-year efforts to improve clinical quality and patient safety once again drove a strong year-over-year reduction in our malpractice costs. The weak economy, and specifically growing unemployment, remains a cause for concern for two key drivers of our business: commercial managed care volumes and bad debt expense. In fact, while our trends in total admissions and outpatient visits were stronger in the month of April than in the first quarter, April's commercial managed care admissions were lower than expected. While we remain cautious regarding the potential for increasing pressure from a softer economy, we are raising our outlook for 2009 adjusted EBITDA by $25 million to a range of $760 million to $825 million."
Continuing Operations
Net income attributable to shareholders was $178 million in the first quarter of 2009, or $0.37 per share, including the following items with an aggregate, net favorable impact of $141 million after-tax, or $0.29 per share:
 
 
 
 
 
Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term defined below, was $276 million, or a margin of 12.1 percent of net operating revenues, in the first quarter of 2009. This represents an increase of $61 million, or 28.4 percent, from adjusted EBITDA of $215 million in the first quarter of 2008, and margin increase of 220 basis points as compared to an adjusted EBITDA margin of 9.9 percent in the first quarter of 2008.
Same-hospital adjusted EBITDA was $273 million in the first quarter of 2009, an increase of $56 million, or 25.8 percent, from the $217 million in the first quarter of 2008. Same-hospital adjusted EBITDA margin increased by 210 basis points to 12.1 percent in the first quarter of 2009 as compared to the same-hospital adjusted EBITDA margin of 10.0 percent in the first quarter of 2008. Same-hospital financial data excludes the results from one of our hospitals as discussed below.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP term defined by the Company as net income (loss) attributable to shareholders before: (1) the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, net of tax; (2) net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (3) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax; (4) income tax (expense) benefit; (5) net gains (losses) on sales of investments; (6) investment earnings; (7) gain from early extinguishment of debt; (8) interest expense; (9) litigation and investigation (costs) benefit, net of insurance recoveries; (10) hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs; (11) impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill
 
and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries; (12) amortization; and (13) depreciation. A reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation shareholders is provided in Table #1 at the end of this release.
Same-Hospital Data
Same-hospital continuing operations data excludes Sierra Providence East Medical Center, in El Paso, which opened on May 21, 2008. Same-hospital continuing operations data is the primary form of tabular data presentation in the narrative sections of this document. There are currently 49 hospitals in same-hospital continuing operations.
Total-hospital data, including the contribution of Sierra Providence East Medical Center, is provided in the tabular presentation of data at the end of this document. As a result of this approach, certain amounts in the narrative section of this document will not tie to amounts in the condensed consolidated statement of operations.
Admissions, Patient Days and Surgeries
 
Our Central Region achieved positive admissions growth in the quarter, but admissions declines were recorded in Tenet's other regions.
Commercial managed care admissions declined by 3.2 percent compared to the first quarter of 2008. The decline is 2.0 percent after adjustment for the Leap Year effect. The 2.0 percent adjusted decline represents an improvement in the trend of commercial admissions in recent quarters.
 
Surgery growth remained strong supported by growth in outpatient surgeries of 4.7 percent. Inpatient surgeries were essentially flat relative to the first quarter of 2008.
Outpatient Visits
 
Total same-hospital outpatient visits increased by 0.7 percent and paying outpatient visits (excluding uninsured and charity outpatient visits) increased by 2.3 percent in the first quarter of 2009 as compared to the first quarter of 2008. After adjustment for the Leap Year effect, total same-hospital outpatient visits increased by 1.8 percent compared to the first quarter of 2008 and paying outpatient visits increased by 3.4 percent. Tenet has now reported year-over-year growth in outpatient visits in three of the last four quarters. Outpatient surgery visits showed robust growth with an increase of 4.7 percent compared to the first quarter of 2008.
The impact of new outpatient centers on visits was approximately offset by the loss of outpatient visits from outpatient centers that were either closed or divested since the first quarter of 2008.
Commercial managed care outpatient visits declined by 5,117 visits, or 1.5 percent, compared to the first quarter of 2008. In addition to the Leap Year effect with an estimated adverse impact on commercial managed care outpatient visits of approximately 3,800 visits, commercial managed care emergency department visits declined by 4,703 visits, or 5 percent. This decline in commercial managed care outpatient visits to the emergency department is believed to be related to the weak economic environment as well as the migration of certain emergency department visits to alternative sites for care. Total emergency department visits across all payer classes increased by 1,628 visits, or 0.5 percent. The total of charity and uninsured outpatient visits declined by 12,820 visits, or 11.5 percent.
Our Central and Florida Regions as well as our Philadelphia Market all reported growth in outpatient visits in excess of three percent, while declines were reported in our California and Southern States Regions.
 
Revenues
 
Prior-year cost report adjustments contributed $11 million to net operating revenues in the first quarter of 2009. Prior-year cost report adjustments made no material contribution to net operating revenues in the first quarter of 2008.
Pricing
 
Pricing improvement was evident across all key metrics, primarily reflecting the improved terms of our commercial managed care contracts. The growth in net inpatient revenue per admission of 3.6 percent was constrained by the decline in commercial managed care admissions of 3.2 percent compared to the first quarter of 2008.
Controllable Operating Expenses
 
 
We define controllable operating expenses as salaries, wages & benefits, supplies, and other operating expenses. Total controllable operating expenses per adjusted patient day increased by 1.2 percent compared to the first quarter of 2008.
 
Salaries, wages and benefits per adjusted patient day increased by 1.8 percent compared to the first quarter of 2008. This increase is primarily due to merit increases for our employees and increased health benefits costs, partially offset by a decline in full-time employee headcount, reduced contract labor expense, lower stock compensation expense, a lower 401(k) match expense effective January 1, 2009, and lower overtime costs. Contract labor expense, which is included in salaries, wages and benefits, was $29 million in the first quarter of 2009, a decrease of $14 million, or 33 percent, compared to the first quarter of 2008.
Supplies expense per adjusted patient day increased by 3.6 percent compared to the first quarter of 2008. The increase in supplies expense is primarily due to the increased number of surgeries, and increased utilization of high cost implants and high cost drugs. A portion of the increase in supplies expense is offset by revenue growth related to payments we receive from certain payers.
Other operating expenses per adjusted patient day decreased by 1.8 percent compared to the first quarter of 2008. Contributing to this decrease was a $19 million, or 48 percent, decline in total hospital malpractice expense to $21 million, compared to $40 million in the first quarter of 2008. This decrease is primarily attributable to improved claims experience. A decline in consulting costs also had a favorable impact on other operating expenses. The favorable impact of these items was partially offset by increases in other items, including higher physician fees related to increased Emergency Department on-call payments and increases in the costs of contracted services.
Provision for Doubtful Accounts
 
 
Bad debt expense increased by $6 million, or 4.1 percent, compared to the first quarter of 2008. The increase in bad debt expense was related to decreased collection rates from uninsured accounts, higher pricing, and higher patient insurance deductibles, partially offset by the decline in uninsured revenues. Our self-pay collection rate declined to approximately 31.4 percent in the first quarter of 2009 compared to 35.0 percent in the first quarter of 2008, and 32.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008. Bad debt expense in the first quarter of 2008 benefited from a $7 million favorable settlement of a dispute with a managed care payer.
Accounts Receivable
Consolidated accounts receivable were $1.385 billion at March 31, 2009 and $1.337 billion at December 31, 2008. Accounts receivable days outstanding from continuing operations were 50 days at March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 compared to 52 days at March 31, 2008. This amount is calculated as accounts receivable from continuing operations divided by net revenue from continuing operations divided by the number of days in the quarter.
Cash Flow
Cash and cash equivalents were $652 million at March 31, 2009, an increase of $145 million from $507 million at December 31, 2008. Adjusted Free Cash Flow, a non-GAAP term defined below, was negative $135 million in the first quarter of 2009 compared to negative $286 million in the first quarter of 2008. Net cash used in operating activities was $6 million in the first quarter of 2009 compared to $133 million in the first quarter of 2008.
 
Adjusted Free Cash Flow, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities less (1) capital expenditures in continuing operations, (2) new and replacement hospital construction expenditures, (3) income tax refunds (payments), (4) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities from discontinued operations, and (5) payments against reserves for restructuring charges, litigation costs and settlements. The reconciliation of net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted Free Cash Flow is provided in Table #2 below.
Significant cash flow items in the first quarter of 2009 included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook for 2009
The Company's outlook for 2009 is materially dependent on a number of items that are difficult to project given the uncertain macro-economic environment. Among the most important of these items are aggregate patient volumes, payer and patient mix, and bad debt expense.
Based on stronger than anticipated results for the first quarter of 2009, we are raising our 2009 outlook range for adjusted EBITDA by $25 million from the prior range of $735 million to $800 million, to $760 million to $825 million. Our outlook for net income attributable to shareholders for 2009 is in a range of a loss of $50 million to positive net income of $80 million.
A reconciliation of outlook adjusted EBITDA to outlook net income (loss) attributable to shareholders for year ending December 31, 2009 is provided in Table #3.
Management's Webcast Discussion of First Quarter Results
Tenet management will discuss first quarter 2009 results on a webcast scheduled to begin at 10:00 AM (ET) on May 5, 2009. This webcast may be accessed through Tenet's website at . A set of slides accompanying the call will be posted to the Company's website at approximately 7:30 AM (ET).
www.tenethealth.com
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates acute care hospitals and related ancillary health care businesses, which include ambulatory surgery centers and diagnostic imaging centers. Tenet's hospitals and related healthcare facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities we serve. For more information, please visit .
www.tenethealth.com
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and periodic reports on Form 8-K. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation shareholders before (1) cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax, (2) net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (3) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, (4) income tax (expense) benefit, (5) net gains (losses) on sales of investments, (6) investment earnings, (7) gain from early extinguishment of debt, (8) interest expense, (9) litigation and investigation (costs) benefit, net of insurance recoveries, (10) hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs, (11) impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries (12) amortization, and (13) depreciation. The Company's Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to EBITDA reported by other companies.
The Company provides this information as a supplement to GAAP information to assist itself and investors in understanding the impact of various items on its financial statements, some of which are recurring or involve cash payments. The Company uses this information in its analysis of the performance of its business excluding items that it does not consider as relevant in the performance of its hospitals in continuing operations. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure of liquidity, but is a measure of operating performance that management uses in its business as an alternative to net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation shareholders. Because Adjusted EBITDA excludes many items that are included in our financial statements, it does not provide a complete measure of our operating performance. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to use GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's financial performance.
The reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation shareholders, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted EBITDA, is set forth in the first table below for the three-months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008.
(2) Adjusted Free Cash Flow
Adjusted Free Cash Flow, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as cash provided by (used in) operating activities less capital expenditures in continuing operations, new hospital construction expenditures, income tax refunds (payments), cash flows from discontinued operations, and payments against reserves for restructuring charges and litigation costs and settlements. The Company believes the use of Adjusted Free Cash Flow is meaningful as the use of this financial measure provides the Company and the users of its financial statements with supplemental information about the impact on the Company's cash flows from the items specified above. The Company provides this information as a supplement to GAAP information to assist itself and investors in understanding the impact of various items on its cash flows, some of which are recurring. The Company uses this information in its analysis of its cash flows excluding items that it does not consider relevant to the liquidity of its hospitals in continuing operations. Adjusted Free Cash Flow is a measure of liquidity that management uses in its business as an alternative to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. Because Adjusted Free Cash Flow excludes many items that are included in our financial statements, it does not provide a complete measure of our liquidity. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to use GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's financial performance or liquidity. The reconciliation of net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted Free Cash Flow is set forth in the second table below for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


