FILE:THC/THC-8K-20090728080107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained herein is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition." This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On July 28, 2009, Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting preliminary financial results of the Company for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. These results are subject to final adjustments. A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 28, 2009
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
:
Key Metrics
(all percentage changes compare Q2'09 data to Q2'08 data, unless otherwise noted)
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE:THC) today said it expects to report adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term defined below, of approximately $246 million for the second quarter of 2009, an increase of approximately $83 million, or 50.9 percent, as compared to $163 million for the second quarter of 2008. On a same-hospital basis, adjusted EBITDA is expected to be approximately $241 million, an increase of $72 million, or 42.6 percent, as compared to $169 million in the second quarter of 2008. The net loss attributable to shareholders for the second quarter of 2009 is expected to be approximately $15 million, or $0.03 per share, the same as the second quarter of 2008.
DALLAS  July 28, 2009 
"Growth in revenues of 4.5 percent, fueled by strong growth in outpatient volumes and solid pricing gains led to very solid results in the quarter with a 51 percent increase in adjusted EBITDA," said Trevor Fetter, president and chief executive officer. "Continued productivity improvements and cost management assured that this strong top line growth translated into robust cash generation providing $131 million in adjusted free cash flow from continuing operations and a quarter-end cash balance of $758 million. Our earnings power was constrained by a modest increase in bad debt expense and continued softness in commercial managed care admissions, but given the very strong performance in the first half of the year, we are again raising our outlook for 2009 adjusted EBITDA by $50 million, to a range of $810 million to $875 million. Our decision to increase our earnings outlook is based on the $524 million of adjusted EBITDA already generated in the first half of 2009 and our growing confidence that effective cost control and strengthening outpatient volumes can mitigate the impacts we are seeing from a weak economy, namely soft commercial admissions and increased bad debt expense."
Continuing Operations
Net loss attributable to shareholders is expected to be approximately $15 million in the second quarter of 2009, or $0.03 per share, including the following items with an aggregate, net unfavorable impact of $30 million after-tax, or $0.06 per share (the sum of the individual items below differs from these aggregate totals due to rounding):
Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term defined below, is expected to be approximately $246 million, or a margin of 11.0 percent of net operating revenues, in the second quarter of 2009. This represents an increase of $83 million, or 50.9 percent, from adjusted EBITDA of $163 million in the second quarter of 2008, and margin increase of 330 basis points as compared to an adjusted EBITDA margin of 7.7 percent in the second quarter of 2008.
Same-hospital adjusted EBITDA is expected to be approximately $241 million in the second quarter of 2009, an increase of $72 million, or 42.6 percent, from the $169 million in the second quarter of 2008. Same-hospital adjusted EBITDA margin increased by 290 basis points to 10.9 percent in the second quarter of 2009 as compared to the same-hospital adjusted EBITDA margin of 8.0 percent in the second quarter of 2008. Same-hospital financial data excludes the results from one of our hospitals as discussed below.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP term defined by the Company as net income (loss) attributable to shareholders before: (1) the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, net of tax; (2) net income attributable to noncontrolling interests; (3) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax; (4) income tax (expense) benefit; (5) net gains (losses) on sales of investments; (6) investment earnings (loss); (7) gain (loss) from early extinguishment of debt; (8) interest expense; (9) litigation and investigation (costs) benefit, net of insurance recoveries; (10) hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs; (11) impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries; (12) amortization; and (13) depreciation. A
 
reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation shareholders is provided in Table #1 at the end of this release.
Same-Hospital Data
Same-hospital continuing operations data is the primary form of tabular data presentation in the narrative sections of this document. Same-hospital continuing operations data excludes Sierra Providence East Medical Center, in El Paso, which opened on May 21, 2008. There are currently 48 hospitals in same-hospital continuing operations. NorthShore Regional Medical Center was moved to discontinued operations during the quarter; accordingly, certain information included in this release has been reclassified to reflect this hospital being moved to discontinued operations.
Admissions, Patient Days and Surgeries
 
Total admissions are expected to be relatively flat with a decline of 0.4 percent as compared to the second quarter of 2008. Commercial managed care admissions declined by 5.7 percent. Our Central Region and our Philadelphia Market both achieved positive total admissions growth in the quarter. Tenet's other regions reported slight declines in admissions as compared to the second quarter of 2008. Surgery growth remained strong with a 1.5 percent increase in total surgeries. The growth in total surgeries was comprised of outpatient surgery growth of 3.5 percent and a decline in inpatient surgeries of 1.3 percent.
 
Outpatient Visits
 
We expect to report strong growth of 42,582 outpatient visits, or 4.5 percent, in aggregate same-hospital outpatient visits in the second quarter of 2009 compared to the second quarter of 2008. This growth was highlighted by improving mix, including 5.5 percent growth in total paying outpatient visits (excluding charity and uninsured outpatient visits) and 0.6 percent growth in commercial outpatient visits. Following a period of declining outpatient visits, Tenet has now reported year-over-year growth in outpatient visits in five of the last six quarters. Outpatient volumes from newly opened or acquired centers, net of the loss of visits from centers that were closed in the period following June 30, 2008, increased by 1,032 outpatient visits.
Outpatient surgeries experienced strong growth increasing by 3.5 percent as did growth in outpatient imaging which increased by 2.6 percent as compared to the second quarter of 2008.
Emergency Department outpatient visits increased by 28,814 visits, or 8.8 percent, in the second quarter of 2009 as compared to the second quarter of 2008. This increase in Emergency Department outpatient visits contributed 67.7 percent of the increase in total outpatient visits.
All of our regions, except the Southern States Region, showed strong growth in outpatient visits in the quarter. Our Southern States experienced outpatient volumes that were approximately flat as compared to the second quarter of 2008.
Revenues
 
Unfavorable prior-year cost report adjustments are expected to reduce net operating revenues by approximately $12 million in the second quarter of 2009 as compared to a reduction of $9 million in the second quarter of 2008.
 
Commercial managed care revenues are expected to increase by approximately 4.0 percent, representing a rate of growth significantly in excess of the 5.7 percent decline in commercial managed care admissions and 0.6 percent growth in commercial managed care outpatient visits as compared to the second quarter of 2008.
Pricing
 
Pricing improvement was evident across all key metrics, primarily reflecting the improved terms of our commercial managed care contracts. The growth in net inpatient revenue per admission of 3.0 percent was constrained by the 5.7 percent decline in commercial managed care admissions compared to the second quarter of 2008.
Controllable Operating Expenses
 
Salaries, wages and benefits per adjusted patient day are expected to increase by approximately 0.9 percent compared to the second quarter of 2008. This increase is primarily due to higher compensation and health benefits costs, partially offset by a decline in full-time employee headcount, reduced contract labor expense, lower stock-based compensation expense, a lower 401(k) match expense effective January 1, 2009, and lower overtime costs. Contract labor expense, which is included in salaries, wages and benefits, was $21 million in the second quarter of 2009, a decrease of $17 million, or 45 percent, compared to the second quarter of 2008.
Supplies expense per adjusted patient day increased by 3.7 percent compared to the second quarter of 2008. The increase in supplies expense is primarily due to the increase in the number of surgeries which grew by 1.5 percent, and the increased utilization of high cost implants and high cost drugs. A portion of the increase in supplies expense is offset by revenue growth related to payments we receive from certain payers.
Other operating expenses per adjusted patient day decreased by 3.5 percent compared to the second quarter of 2008. Contributing to this decrease was an $11 million, or 28.9 percent, decline in total hospital malpractice expense to $27 million, compared to $38 million in the second quarter of 2008. This decrease is
 
primarily attributable to improved claims experience. A decline in consulting costs also had a favorable impact on other operating expenses. The favorable impact of these items was partially offset by increases in other items, including higher physician fees related to increased Emergency Department on-call payments and increases in the costs of contracted services.
Total controllable operating expenses, which is defined as salaries, wages & benefits, supplies, and other operating expenses, increased by 0.3 percent on a per adjusted patient day basis compared to the second quarter of 2008.
Provision for Doubtful Accounts
 
Bad debt expense increased by $11 million, or 7.2 percent, compared to the second quarter of 2008. The increase in bad debt expense was related to decreased collection rates from self-pay accounts, higher pricing, and higher patient insurance deductibles, partially offset by the decline in uninsured revenues and improved managed care accounts receivable aging categories. Our self-pay collection rate, which is the aggregate collection rate for uninsured and balance-after accounts receivable, declined to approximately 30.8 percent in the second quarter of 2009 compared to 34.0 percent in the second quarter of 2008, and 31.4 percent in the first quarter of 2009.
Accounts Receivable
Consolidated accounts receivable were approximately $1.225 billion at June 30, 2009 and $1.385 billion at March 31, 2009. Accounts receivable days outstanding from continuing operations were 48 days at June 30, 2009 compared to 50 days at March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. This amount is calculated as accounts receivable from continuing operations divided by net revenue from continuing operations divided by the number of days in the quarter.
Cash Flow
Cash and cash equivalents were $758 million at June 30, 2009, an increase of $106 million from $652 million at March 31, 2009. Adjusted Free Cash Flow, a non-GAAP term defined below, was $131 million in the second quarter of 2009 compared to $41 million in the second quarter of 2008. Net cash provided by operating activities was $170 million in the second quarter of 2009 compared to $123 million in the second quarter of 2008.
Adjusted Free Cash Flow, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities less (1) income tax refunds (payments), (2) payments against reserves for restructuring charges, litigation costs and settlements, (3) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities from discontinued operations, (4) capital expenditures in continuing operations, and (5) new and replacement hospital construction expenditures. The reconciliation of net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted Free Cash Flow is provided in Table #2 below.
 
Significant cash flow items in the second quarter of 2009 included:
 
Subsequent to the close of the second quarter on June 30, 2009, there are significant cash outflows which include:
 
Outlook for 2009
The Company's outlook for 2009 is materially dependent on a number of items that are difficult to project given the uncertain macro-economic environment. Among the most important of these items are aggregate patient volumes, payer and patient mix, and bad debt expense.
We are raising our 2009 outlook range for adjusted EBITDA to a new range of $810 million to $875 million from the prior range of $760 million to $825 million. Our outlook for net income attributable to shareholders for 2009 is in a range of a loss of $20 million to positive net income of $60 million.
The increase in our 2009 outlook range reflects our stronger than anticipated results of operations in the first half of 2009, enhanced cost efficiency, and a projected smaller increase in bad debt expense.
A reconciliation of outlook adjusted EBITDA to outlook net income (loss) attributable to shareholders for year ending December 31, 2009 is provided in Table #3 below.
 
Management's Webcast Discussion of Second Quarter Results
Tenet management will discuss second quarter 2009 results on a webcast scheduled to begin at 10:00 AM (ET) on Aug. 4, 2009. This webcast may be accessed through Tenet's website at . A set of slides accompanying the call will be posted to the Company's website at approximately 7:30 AM (ET).
www.tenethealth.com
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates acute care hospitals and related ancillary health care businesses, which include ambulatory surgery centers and diagnostic imaging centers. Tenet's hospitals and related healthcare facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities we serve. For more information, please visit .
www.tenethealth.com
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and periodic reports on Form 8-K. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
(1) Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation shareholders before (1) cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax, (2) net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, (3) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, (4) income tax (expense) benefit, (5) net gains (losses) on sales of investments, (6) investment earnings (loss), (7) gain (loss) from early extinguishment of debt, (8) interest expense, (9) litigation and investigation (costs) benefit, net of insurance recoveries, (10) hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs, (11) impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries, (12) amortization, and (13) depreciation. The Company's Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to EBITDA reported by other companies.
The Company provides this information as a supplement to GAAP information to assist itself and investors in understanding the impact of various items on its financial statements, some of which are recurring or involve cash payments. The Company uses this information in its analysis of the performance of its business excluding items that it does not consider as relevant in the performance of its hospitals in continuing operations. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure of liquidity, but is a measure of operating performance that management uses in its business as an alternative to net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation shareholders. Because Adjusted EBITDA excludes many items that are included in our financial statements, it does not provide a complete measure of our operating performance. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to use GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's financial performance.
The reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation shareholders, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted EBITDA, is set forth in Table #1 below for the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2009 and 2008.
(2) Adjusted Free Cash Flow
Adjusted Free Cash Flow, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as cash provided by (used in) operating activities less income tax refunds (payments), payments against reserves for restructuring charges and litigation costs and settlements, net cash provided by (used in) operating activities from discontinued operations, capital expenditures in continuing operations, and new and replacement hospital construction expenditures. The Company believes the use of Adjusted Free Cash Flow is meaningful as the use of this financial measure provides the Company and the users of its financial statements with supplemental information about the impact on the Company's cash flows from the items specified above. The Company provides this information as a supplement to GAAP information to assist itself and investors in understanding the impact of various items on its cash flows, some of which are recurring. The Company uses this information in its analysis of its cash flows excluding items that it does not consider relevant to the liquidity of its hospitals in continuing operations. Adjusted Free Cash Flow is a measure of liquidity that management uses in its business as an alternative to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. Because Adjusted Free Cash Flow excludes many items that are included in
 
our financial statements, it does not provide a complete measure of our liquidity. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to use GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's financial performance or liquidity.
The reconciliation of net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted Free Cash Flow is set forth in Table #2 below for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2009 and 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 


