FILE:THC/THC-8K-20090521160638.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 15, 2009, we amended our $800 million credit agreement. The amendment permits us to incur secured refinancing debt under the credit agreement if either (i) the aggregate amount of secured refinancing debt does not exceed $3.2 billion or (ii) the secured leverage ratio (as defined) is less than 4.0 to 1.0 for the most recently ended four consecutive fiscal quarters. The amendment conforms the credit agreement terms restricting the incurrence of secured refinancing debt in substantial respects to the similar limitations in the supplemental indentures relating to the senior secured notes we issued in March 2009. We have filed a copy of the amendment as Exhibit 10(a) to this Form 8-K. For a complete description of these provisions, you should read the amendment and the supplemental indentures, copies of which have been filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 21, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 10(a)
EXECUTION COPY
This AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of May 15, 2009 (this ""), among TENET HEALTHCARE CORPORATION, a Nevada corporation (the ""), and CITICORP USA, INC. (""), as Administrative Agent (as defined below), on behalf of each Lender executing an Acknowledgment and Consent (as defined below), amends certain provisions of the CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of November 16, 2006 (as the same may be amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among the Borrower, the Lenders and the Issuers (each as defined therein) party thereto from time to time, Citi, as agent for the Lenders and the Issuers (in such capacity, and as agent for the Secured Parties under the Collateral Documents, together with its successors in such capacity, the ""). Unless otherwise specified herein, all capitalized terms used in this Amendment shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
Amendment
Borrower
Citi
Credit Agreement
Administrative Agent
WHEREAS, the Borrower and each Lender signatory to an acknowledgment and consent in the form set forth as Exhibit A (an "") and the Administrative Agent agree, subject to the limitations and conditions set forth herein, to amend the Credit Agreement as set forth herein;
Acknowledgment and Consent
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
Section 1. . As of the Effective Date (as defined below):
Certain Amendments to the Credit Agreement
(a) The term as defined in is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
"Secured Indebtedness"
Section 1.1 (Defined Terms)
        " "" " means Indebtedness secured by a Lien upon the property or assets of the Company or any of its direct or indirect Subsidiaries."
Secured Indebtedness
(b) is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
Section 8.1(q) (Indebtedness)
"(q) Qualified Secured Refinancing Indebtedness; that at the time of incurrence of such Qualified Secured Refinancing Indebtedness and after giving effect thereto, no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and either (i) the aggregate Dollar Equivalent of the outstanding principal amount of all such Qualified Secured Refinancing Indebtedness incurred pursuant to this would not exceed $3,200,000,000, or (ii) the Secured Leverage Ratio, after giving effect to such Secured Indebtedness, would be less than 4.0 to 1.0 as at the end of each of the most recently ended four consecutive Fiscal Quarters for which financial statements have been delivered to the Administrative Agent."
provided, however,
clause (q) 
pro forma
Section 2. . This Amendment shall become effective as of the date (the "") on which each of the following conditions precedent shall have been satisfied:
Conditions to Effectiveness
Effective Date
(a) . The Administrative Agent shall have received each of the following prior to or on May 15, 2009, each dated as of the Effective Date (unless otherwise agreed to by the Administrative Agent), in form and substance satisfactory to Administrative Agent:
Certain Documents
(i) this Amendment, duly executed by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent; and
(ii) the Administrative Agent shall have received an Acknowledgment and Consent duly executed by each Lender constituting the Requisite Lenders.
(b) . The Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders and the Issuers, shall have received a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying that both before and after giving effect to this Amendment:
Representations and Warranties; No Defaults
(i) each of the representations and warranties set forth in ) of the Credit Agreement and in the other Loan Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Effective Date with the same effect as though made on and as of such date, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct as of such earlier date; , that references therein to the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the Credit Agreement as amended by this Amendment; and
Article IV (Representations and Warranties
provided, however
(ii) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, either on the date hereof or on the Effective Date.
(c) (i) The Lenders shall have received payment of all fees as required by Section 5 hereof; and
Fees; Costs and Expenses.
(ii) the Administrative Agent shall have received payment of all fees, costs and expenses, including, without limitation, all fees, costs and expenses of the Administrative Agent (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel for the Administrative Agent) in connection with this Amendment, the Credit Agreement and each other Loan Document, as required by Section 6 hereof.
Section 3. . The Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and each Lender as follows:
Representations and Warranties
(a) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Amendment have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action on the part of the Borrower and will not violate its certificate of incorporation or bylaws.
(b) This Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower, and each of this Amendment and the Credit Agreement as amended or otherwise modified hereby constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the
Borrower in accordance with their terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and by the application of general equitable principles (whether considered in proceedings at law or in equity).
(c) (i) Each of the representations and warranties made by the Borrower in the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, and the other Loan Documents, is true and correct in all material respects as of the Effective Date (other than representations and warranties in any such Loan Document that expressly speak as of an earlier date, which shall have been true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date) and (ii) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
Section 4. .
Reference to and Effect on the Loan Documents
(a) As of the Effective Date, each reference in the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents to "," "," "," "" or words of like import shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement or such other Loan Document as amended by this Amendment, and this Amendment and the Credit Agreement shall be read together and construed as a single instrument.
this Agreement
hereunder
hereof
herein
(b) Except to the extent expressly amended hereby, the Credit Agreement and all of the other Loan Documents are and shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed, including the respective guarantees and security interests granted pursuant to the respective Loan Documents.
(c) The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not operate as a waiver of any Default or Event of Default or any right, power, privilege or remedy of the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any Issuer under the Credit Agreement or any Loan Document, or constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement or any Loan Document.
(d) This Amendment is a Loan Document.
(e) The Borrower hereby confirms that the security interests and Liens granted pursuant to the Loan Documents continue to secure the Obligations and that such security interests and Liens remain in full force and effect.
(f) This Amendment shall not extinguish or otherwise constitute a novation of the Obligations outstanding under the Credit Agreement or discharge or release the Lien or priority of any Loan Document or any other security therefor or any guarantee thereof.
Section 5. . As consideration for a Lender consenting to this Amendment, the Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of such Lender a fee equal to 0.25% of the sum of such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment currently in effect provided that the Administrative Agent shall have received (by facsimile or otherwise) an executed Acknowledgment and Consent from such Lender with respect to this Amendment by 12:00 p.m. (New York time) on or prior to May 15, 2009.
Fees
Section 6. . As provided in of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower agrees to pay or reimburse the Administrative Agent on the Effective Date for all of the Administrative Agent's reasonable out-of-pocket costs and
Costs and Expenses
Section 11.3 (Costs and Expenses)
expenses of every type and nature, including the reasonable fees, expenses and disbursements of the Administrative Agent's counsel, incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with this Amendment.
Section 7. . This Amendment and the rights and obligations of the parties hereto shall be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
Section 8. . Section headings in this Amendment are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Amendment for any other purposes.
Headings
Section 9. . The fact that any term or provision of this Amendment is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable as to any person in any situation in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity, enforceability or legality of the remaining terms or provisions hereof or the validity, enforceability or legality of such offending term or provision in any other situation or jurisdiction or as applied to any person.
Severability
Section 10. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument. Receipt by the Administrative Agent of a facsimile copy of an executed signature page hereof shall constitute receipt by the Administrative Agent of an executed counterpart of this Amendment.
Execution in Counterparts
Section 11. . Each of the parties hereto irrevocably waives trial by jury in any action or proceeding with respect to this Amendment or any other Loan Document.
Waiver of Jury Trial
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been duly executed on the date set forth above.
 
 
Reference is made to the CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of November 16, 2006 (as the same may be amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among TENET HEALTHCARE CORPORATION (the ""), the Lenders and the Issuers party thereto from time to time, CITICORP USA, INC., as agent for the Lenders and the Issuers (in such capacity, and as agent for the Secured Parties under the Collateral Documents, together with its successors in such capacity, the ""). Unless otherwise specified herein, all capitalized terms used in this Acknowledgment and Consent shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Administrative Agent
The Borrower has requested that the Lenders consent to an amendment to the Credit Agreement on the terms described in Amendment No. 2 to the Credit Agreement (the ""), the form of which is attached hereto.
Amendment
Pursuant to of the Credit Agreement, the undersigned Lender hereby consents to the terms of the Amendment and authorizes the Administrative Agent to execute and deliver the Amendment on its behalf.
Section 11.1 (Amendments, Waivers, Etc.)
 
Dated as of
                    


