FILE:THC/THC-8K-20100817151435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in Item 2.03 is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
 
On August 17, 2010, Tenet Healthcare Corporation ("Tenet") sold $600,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 8% Senior Notes due 2020 (the "Senior Notes") in a private placement. Tenet will pay interest on the Senior Notes semi-annually, in arrears, on February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing February 1, 2011, to holders of record on the immediately preceding January 15 and July 15 of such year. The Senior Notes are unsecured and will rank equally with all of Tenet's existing and future unsecured senior debt, will rank senior to all of Tenet's existing and future unsecured subordinated debt and will be effectively subordinated to all of Tenet's existing and future secured debt, to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such secured indebtedness.
The Senior Notes were issued under an Indenture, dated as of November 6, 2001, as supplemented by a Twelfth Supplemental Indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture"), dated August 17, 2010, between Tenet and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee.
Before August 1, 2013, Tenet, at its option, may redeem, subject to certain conditions, up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes with the net cash proceeds of one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (as defined in the Supplemental Indenture) at a price equal to 108% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date. After August 1, 2015, Tenet, at its option, may redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at the redemption prices and terms set forth in the Supplemental Indenture, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any, to the redemption date. Tenet, at its option, may also redeem, in whole or in part, the Senior Notes at any time on or before August 1, 2015, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes being redeemed plus the applicable make-whole premium set forth in the Supplemental Indenture, together with accrued and unpaid interest.
Subject to the terms of the Supplemental Indenture, Tenet may be required to purchase for cash all or any part of the Senior Notes upon the occurrence of a "change of control" (as defined in the Supplemental Indenture) for a cash purchase price of 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
The Supplemental Indenture contains covenants that, among other things, restrict Tenet's ability and the ability of its subsidiaries: (1) to incur liens on principal properties and (2) to enter into sale and lease-back transactions with respect to principal properties. A principal property is defined in the Supplemental Indenture as a hospital that has an asset value on our books in excess of 5% of our consolidated net tangible assets, as defined. These limitations do not apply, however, to (1) debt that is not secured by principal properties or (2) debt that is secured by principal properties if the aggregate of such secured debt does not exceed 15% of our consolidated net tangible assets, as further described in the Supplemental Indenture. The Supplemental Indenture also prohibits the consolidation, merger or sale of all or substantially all assets unless no event of default would result after giving effect to such transaction.
In connection with the issuance of the Senior Notes, on August 17, 2010, Tenet also entered into an Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement dated as of August 17, 2010 (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), with Barclays Capital Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and Scotia Capital (USA) Inc. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, Tenet has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to register with the Securities Exchange Commission notes having substantially identical terms as the Senior Notes as part of an offer to exchange freely tradable exchange notes for these notes subject to the terms set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
The proceeds from the sale of the Senior Notes will be used, after deducting commissions, to pay a portion of the purchase price, plus accrued and unpaid interest, for Tenet's 7.375% Senior Notes due 2013 tendered pursuant to an Offer to Purchase dated August 3, 2010, which sets forth the terms and conditions of Tenet's offer to purchase for cash up to $800,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of Tenet's 7.375% Senior Notes due 2013 (the "Tender Offer"). Tenet will use any remaining net proceeds for repurchases of its other outstanding senior notes through public or privately negotiated transactions. Pending application of the net proceeds, Tenet will deposit them in an interest bearing account.
The foregoing is a summary and is qualified by reference to the Supplemental Indenture and Registration Rights Agreement, which are filed herewith as Exhibits 4.1 and 10.1, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
On August 17, 2010, Tenet issued a press release announcing the completion of its private offering of 8% senior notes due 2020. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
On August 17, 2010, Tenet issued a separate press release announcing that $781.5 million aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 7.375% senior notes due 2013 (approximately 78.3%) had been tendered pursuant to the Tender Offer before the expiration of the early tender time. For additional information, reference is made to the press release announcing the early tender results attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 17, 2010
 

Exhibit 4.1
Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TWELFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of August 17, 2010, between Tenet Healthcare Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Nevada (herein called the ), and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee to The Bank of New York (herein called );
"Company"
"Trustee"
WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to The Bank of New York, as predecessor trustee to the Trustee, an Indenture, dated as of November 6, 2001 (the , and the Existing Indenture, as supplemented by this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, the ), providing for the issuance from time to time of the Company's unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein and therein called the ), to be issued in one or more series as provided in the Existing Indenture;
"Existing Indenture"
"Indenture"
"Securities"
WHEREAS, Section 901 of the Existing Indenture permits the Company and the Trustee to enter into an indenture supplemental to the Existing Indenture to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of any additional series of Securities;
WHEREAS, Sections 201, 301 and 901 of the Existing Indenture permit the form of notes of each additional series of notes to be established pursuant to an indenture supplemental to the Existing Indenture;
WHEREAS, Section 301 of the Existing Indenture permits certain terms of any additional series of notes to be established pursuant to an indenture supplemental to the Existing Indenture;
WHEREAS, pursuant to resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company adopted at a meeting duly called on May 5, 2010 and resolutions of the Pricing Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company adopted at a meeting duly called on August 3, 2010, the Company has authorized the issuance of up to $600.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 8% Senior Notes due 2020 (such 8% Senior Notes due 2020, in an unlimited amount, the );
"Notes"
WHEREAS, the Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture to establish the form and terms of the Notes;
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture a valid and legally binding agreement according to its terms have been done; and
WHEREAS, the foregoing recitals are made as statements of fact by the Company and not by the Trustee;
:
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS TWELFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE WITNESSETH
For and in consideration of the premises and the issuance of the Notes provided for herein, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all holders of the Notes, as follows:
Section 1.1.
Relation to Existing Indenture
This Twelfth Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Existing Indenture (the provisions of which, as modified by this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, shall apply to the Notes) in respect of the Notes but shall not modify, amend or otherwise affect the Existing Indenture insofar as it relates to any other series of Securities or affect in any manner the terms and conditions of the Securities of any other series. To the extent any provision of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture conflicts with the express provisions of the Existing Indenture, the provisions of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture shall govern and be controlling.
Section 1.2.
Definitions
For all purposes of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, the capitalized terms used herein (i) which are defined in this Section 1.2 have the respective meanings assigned thereto in this Section 1.2, and (ii) which are defined in the Existing Indenture (and which are not defined in this Section 1.2) have the respective meanings assigned thereto in the Existing Indenture. For all purposes of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture:
1.2.1 All references herein to Articles and Sections, unless otherwise specified, refer to the corresponding Articles and Sections of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture;
1.2.2 The terms "hereof", "herein", "hereby", "hereto", "hereunder" and "herewith" refer to this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture; and
1.2.3 The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:
means a Global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee that will be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes issued in reliance on Rule 144A.
"144A Global Note"
means additional Notes (other than the Initial Notes) issued under this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof, as part of the same series as the Initial Notes; that such additional Notes shall be part of the same issue as, and be fungible with, the Initial Notes for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
"Additional Notes"
provided
means, with respect to any Redemption Date:
"Adjusted Treasury Rate"
(1) the yield, under the heading that represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication that is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and that establishes yields on actively traded U.S. Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue; or
 
(2) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
The Adjusted Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
means, as determined by the Company, with respect to any Note on any Redemption Date, the greater of:
"Applicable Premium"
(1) 1.0% of the principal amount of the Note on such Redemption Date; or
(2) the excess, if any, of the present value at such Redemption Date of (A) (i) the Redemption Price of the Note at August 1, 2015 (such Redemption Price being set forth in the table appearing in Section 3.1 hereof), plus (ii) all required interest payments due on the Note through August 1, 2015 (excluding accrued but unpaid interest and Special Interest, if any, to the applicable Redemption Date), computed using a discount rate equal to the Adjusted Treasury Rate as of such Redemption Date plus 50 basis points, over (B) the principal amount of the Note on such Redemption Date.
means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Note, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream that apply to such transfer or exchange.
"Applicable Procedures"
when used in connection with a Sale and Lease-Back Transaction, means, as of the date of determination, (i) as to any capitalized lease obligations, the liability related thereto set forth on the consolidated balance sheet of the Company and (ii) as to any operating lease, the present value (discounted at the rate per annum equal to the rate of interest set forth or implicit in the term of the lease, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company) of the total obligation of the lessee for net rental payments during the remaining term of the lease (including any period for which an option to extend such lease has been exercised).
"Attributable Debt"
has the meaning specified in Section 2.2.
"Authentication Order"
has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
"Broker-Dealer"
means:
"Capital Stock"
 
 
 
 
but excluding from all of the foregoing any debt securities convertible into Capital Stock, whether or not such debt securities include any right of participation with Capital Stock.
 
means the occurrence of any of the following:
"Change of Control"
 
 
 
 
 
 
has the meaning specified in Section 4.5.
"Change of Control Offer"
has the meaning specified in Section 4.5.
"Change of Control Payment"
has the meaning specified in Section 4.5.
"Change of Control Payment Date"
means Clearstream Banking, S.A.
"Clearstream"
means the U.S. Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity most nearly equal to the period from the applicable Redemption Date to August 1, 2015, , that if the period from the Redemption Date to August 1, 2015 is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded U.S. Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year will be used.
"Comparable Treasury Issue"
provided, however
means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of five Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
"Comparable Treasury Price"
 
"" means the total amount of assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom (a) all current liabilities as disclosed on the consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries (excluding any deferred income taxes that are included in current liabilities) and (b) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt issue costs and other like intangible assets, all as set forth on the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries and in each case computed in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
"" means those Subsidiaries that are consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes.
Consolidated Subsidiaries
means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election.
Continuing Directors"
has the meaning specified in Section 6.2.
"Covenant Defeasance"
means the Trustee, as custodian with respect to the Notes in global form, or any successor entity thereto.
"Custodian"
means, with respect to any specified Person, any debt of such Person in respect of borrowed money, including Guarantees related thereto.
"Debt"
has the meaning specified in Section 6.1.
"Defeasance"
means a certificated Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.5 hereof, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto except that such Note shall not bear the Global Note Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto.
"Definitive Note"
means, with respect to the Notes issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person specified in Section 2.3 hereof as the Depositary with respect to the Notes, and any and all successors thereto appointed as depositary hereunder and having become such pursuant to the applicable provision of the Indenture.
"Depositary"
has the meaning specified in Section 2.3.
"DTC"
has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
"Exchange Offer"
has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
"Exchange Registration Statement"
means the notes issued in the Exchange Offer pursuant to Section 2.5(f).
"Exchange Notes"
means Euroclear Bank, S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear system.
"Euroclear"
has the meaning specified in Section 5.1.
"Event of Default"
means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America as in effect from time to time set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or in such other statements by such other entity (such as International Financial Reporting Standards) as may be in general use by significant segments of the accounting profession, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination.
"GAAP"
 
means the legend set forth in Section 2.5(g)(2) hereof, which is required to be placed on all Global Notes issued under the Indenture.
"Global Note Legend"
means, individually and collectively, each of the Restricted Global Notes and the Unrestricted Global Notes deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto and that bears the Global Note Legend and that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto, issued in accordance with Section 2.1, 2.5(b)(3), 2.5(b)(4), 2.5(d)(2) or 2.5(f) hereof.
"Global Notes"
means a guarantee other than by endorsement of negotiable instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business, direct or indirect, in any manner including, by way of a pledge of assets or through letters of credit or reimbursement agreements in respect thereof, of all or any part of any Debt.
"Guarantee"
means a holder of Notes.
"Holder"
means the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Company.
"Independent Investment Banker"
means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
"Indirect Participant"
means the first $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of Notes issued under the Indenture on the date hereof.
"Initial Notes"
means the letter of transmittal to be prepared by the Company and sent to all Holders of the Notes for use by such Holders in connection with the Exchange Offer.
"Letter of Transmittal"
means liens, mortgages, pledges, charges, security interests or other encumbrances.
"Liens"
has the meaning assigned to it under the caption "Recitals." The Initial Notes and the Additional Notes shall be treated as a single class for all purposes under the Indenture, and unless the context otherwise requires, all references to the Notes shall include the Initial Notes and any Additional Notes.
"Notes"
means any principal, interest, premium (if any), penalties, fees, indemnifications, reimbursements, damages, expenses and other liabilities payable under the documentation governing any Debt.
"Obligations"
means, with respect to any Person, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary or any Vice President of such Person.
"Officer"
means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, a Person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and, with respect to DTC, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream).
"Participant"
has the meaning specified in Section 2.3.
"Paying Agent"
means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
"Person"
 
means a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City.
"Primary Treasury Dealer"
"" means each hospital owned solely by the Company and/or one or more of its Subsidiaries that has an asset value shown on the books of the Company in excess of 5% of the Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of the Company.
Principal Property
means the legend set forth in Section 2.5(g)(1) hereof to be placed on all Notes issued under the Indenture except where otherwise permitted by the provisions of the Indenture.
"Private Placement Legend"
means the issue and sale of common stock of the Company in a bona fide public or private offering.
"Qualified Equity Offering"
or has the meaning specified in Rule 144A.
"Qualified Institutional Buyer"
"QIB"
means:
"Reference Treasury Dealer"
(1) Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and its successor; , if any of the foregoing ceases to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer; and
provided that
(2) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation"
has the meaning specified in Section 2.3.
"Registrar"
means the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of August 17, 2010 among the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time and, with respect to any Additional Notes, one or more registration rights agreements among the Company and the other parties thereto, as such agreement(s) may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, in each case relating to rights given by the Company to the purchasers of Notes to register such Notes under the Securities Act.
"Registration Rights Agreement"
means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
"Regulation S"
means a Global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
"Regulation S Global Note"
means a Definitive Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
"Restricted Definitive Note"
means a Global Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
"Restricted Global Note"
means the 40-day distribution compliance period as defined in Regulation S.
"Restricted Period"
 
means Rule 144 under the Securities Act (including any successor rule thereto), as the same may be amended from time to time.
"Rule 144"
means Rule 144A under the Securities Act (including any successor rule thereto), as the same may be amended from time to time.
"Rule 144A"
means Rule 903 under the Securities Act (including any successor rule thereto), as the same may be amended from time to time.
"Rule 903"
means Rule 904 under the Securities Act (including any successor rule thereto), as the same may be amended from time to time.
"Rule 904"
means any arrangement with any Person (other than the Company or a Subsidiary), or to which any such Person is a party, providing for the leasing to the Company or a Subsidiary for a period of more than three years of any Principal Property that has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Subsidiary to such Person or to any other Person (other than the Company or a Subsidiary), to which the funds have been or are to be advanced by such Person on the security of the leased property.
"Sale and Lease-Back Transactions"
has the meaning ascribed to it in the first paragraph under the caption "Recitals."
"Securities"
means any Subsidiary that would be a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Article 1, Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X, promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act, as such Regulation is in effect on the date of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture.
"Significant Subsidiary"
has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
"Special Interest"
means, with respect to any Person, (i) any corporation, limited liability company, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the outstanding voting power of shares of Capital Stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers, managing members or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or one or more other Subsidiaries of that Person (or a combination thereof) and (ii) any partnership (a) the sole general partner or the managing general partner of which is such Person or a Subsidiary of such Person or (b) the only general partners of which are such Person or one or more Subsidiaries of such Person (or any combination thereof).
"Subsidiary"
means a Definitive Note that does not bear and is not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
"Unrestricted Definitive Note"
means a Global Note that does not bear and is not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
"Unrestricted Global Note"
of any specified Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person.
"Voting Stock"
Section 2.1.
Form and Dating
(a) . The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication will be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Note will be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes shall be in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
General
 
The terms and provisions contained in the Notes will constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture and the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling.
(b) . Notes issued in global form will be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto (including the Global Note Legend thereon and the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto). Notes issued in definitive form will be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto (but without the Global Note Legend thereon and without the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto). Each Global Note will represent such of the outstanding Notes as will be specified therein and each shall provide that it represents the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby will be made by the Trustee or the Custodian, at the direction of the Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.5 hereof.
Global Notes
Section 2.2.
Execution and Authentication
At least one Officer must sign the Notes for the Company by manual or facsimile signature.
If an Officer whose signature is on a Note no longer holds that office at the time a Note is authenticated, the Note will nevertheless be valid.
A Note will not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee. The signature will be conclusive evidence that the Note has been authenticated under the Indenture.
The Trustee will, upon receipt of a written order of the Company signed by an Officer (an ), authenticate Notes for original issue that may be validly issued under the Indenture, including any Additional Notes. The aggregate principal amount of Notes outstanding at any time may not exceed the aggregate principal amount of Notes authorized for issuance by the Company pursuant to one or more Authentication Orders, except as provided in Section 306 of the Existing Indenture.
"Authentication Order"
The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Notes. An authenticating agent may authenticate Notes whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with Holders or an Affiliate of the Company.
Section 2.3.
Registrar and Paying Agent
The Company will maintain an office or agency where Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange () and an office or agency where Notes may be presented for payment (). The Registrar will keep a register of the Notes and of their transfer and exchange. The Company may appoint one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents. The term "Registrar" includes any co-registrar and the term "Paying Agent" includes any additional paying agent. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company will notify the Trustee in writing of the name and address of any Agent not a party to the Indenture. If the Company fails to appoint or maintain another entity as Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent or Registrar.
"Registrar"
"Paying Agent"
 
The Company initially appoints The Depository Trust Company () to act as Depositary with respect to the Global Notes.
"DTC"
The Company initially appoints the Trustee to act as the Registrar and Paying Agent and to act as Custodian with respect to the Global Notes and the Trustee hereby agrees so to initially act.
Section 2.4.
Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust
The Company will require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that the Paying Agent will hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal, premium or Special Interest, if any, or interest on the Notes, and will notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. While any such default continues, the Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. Upon payment over to the Trustee, the Paying Agent will have no further liability for the money.
Section 2.5.
Transfer and Exchange
(a) . A Global Note may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes will be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes if:
Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
(1) the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary;
(2) the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Definitive Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Trustee; or
(3) there has occurred and is continuing an Event of Default with respect to the Notes.
Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (1), (2) or (3) above, Definitive Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. Such Definitive Notes will be issued in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof and will be in registered form only, without coupons. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 304 and 306 of the Existing Indenture. Every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 2.5 or Section 304 or 306 of the Existing Indenture, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note. A Global Note may not be exchanged for another Note other than as provided in this Section 2.5(a), however, beneficial interests in a Global Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Section 2.5(b), (c) or (f) hereof.
 
(b) . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes will be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes will be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also will require compliance with either subparagraph (1) or (2) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes
(1) . Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Note in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend; , that prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, transfers of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Note may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person. Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 2.5(b)(1).
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Note
provided, however
(2) In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 2.5(b)(1) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Registrar either:
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Notes.
(A) both:
(i) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and
(ii) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase; or
(B) both:
(i) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and
(ii) instructions given by the Depositary to the Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above.
Upon consummation of an Exchange Offer by the Company in accordance with Section 2.5(f) hereof, the requirements of this Section 2.5(b)(2) shall be deemed to have been satisfied upon receipt by the Registrar of the instructions contained in the Letter of Transmittal delivered by the Holder of such beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Note(s) pursuant to Section 2.5(h) hereof.
 
(3) A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Note if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.5(b)(2) above and the Registrar receives the following:
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Note.
(A) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
(B) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof.
(4) A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be exchanged by any holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.5(b)(2) above and:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note.
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a Broker-Dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
(B) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(C) the Registrar receives the following:
(i) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or
(ii) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (C), an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
If any such transfer is effected pursuant to subparagraph (C) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests transferred pursuant to subparagraph (C) above.
 
Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Note cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note.
(c)
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Notes.
(1) If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes.
(A) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof;
(B) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
(C) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
(D) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
(E) if such beneficial interest is being transferred in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable;
(F) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or
(G) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof,
the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.5(h) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 2.5(c) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 2.5(c)(1) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
 
(2) A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note only if:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of such beneficial interest, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a Broker-Dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
(B) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(C) the Registrar receives the following:
(i) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or
(ii) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (C), an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
(3) If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 2.5(b)(2) hereof, the Trustee will cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.5(h) hereof, and the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.5(c)(3) will be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest requests through instructions to the Registrar from or through the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee will deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.5(c)(3) will not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
 
(d)
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Beneficial Interests.
(1) If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes.
(A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof;
(B) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
(C) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
(D) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
(E) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable;
(F) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or
(G) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof,
the Trustee will cancel the Restricted Definitive Note, increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Note, in the case of clause (B) above, the 144A Global Note, and in the case of clause (C) above, the Regulation S Global Note.
(2) A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Restricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note only if:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes.
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a Broker-Dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
 
(B) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(C) the Registrar receives the following:
(i) if the Holder of such Definitive Notes proposes to exchange such Notes for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or
(ii) if the Holder of such Definitive Notes proposes to transfer such Notes to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (C), an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 2.5(d)(2), the Trustee will cancel the Definitive Notes and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Note.
(3) A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee will cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Note and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Notes.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes.
If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Note to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (2)(C) or (3) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company will issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof, the Trustee will authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Notes so transferred.
 
(e) Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.5(e), the Registrar will register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder must present or surrender to the Registrar the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder must provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 2.5(e).
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Definitive Notes.
(1) Any Restricted Definitive Note may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note if the Registrar receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes.
(A) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 144A, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
(B) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 903 or Rule 904, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and
(C) if the transfer will be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
(2) Any Restricted Definitive Note may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note if:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (i) a Broker-Dealer, (ii) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (iii) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
(B) any such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
(C) the Registrar receives the following:
(i) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Notes proposes to exchange such Notes for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or
(ii) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Notes proposes to transfer such Notes to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (C), an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
(3) A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Notes may transfer such Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Notes pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
(f) Upon the occurrence of the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company will issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof, the Trustee will authenticate:
Exchange Offer.
(1) one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal that (A) they are not Broker-Dealers, (B) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Notes and (C) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company; and
(2) Unrestricted Definitive Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Definitive Notes accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal that (A) they are not Broker-Dealers, (B) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Notes and (C) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company.
Concurrently with the issuance of such Notes, the Trustee will cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Notes to be reduced accordingly, and the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of Definitive Notes so accepted Unrestricted Definitive Notes in the appropriate principal amount.
(g) The following legends will appear on the face of all Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued under the Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture.
Legends.
(1) .
Private Placement Legend
(A) Except as permitted by subparagraph (B) below, each Global Note and each Definitive Note (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear the legend in substantially the following form:
"THE SALE OF THIS NOTE HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND ACCORDINGLY, UNTIL SUCH TIME AS TENET HEALTHCARE CORPORATION (THE "COMPANY") HAS INSTRUCTED THE TRUSTEE THAT THIS LEGEND NO LONGER APPLIES, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE OFFERED OR SOLD EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER AGREES (1) THAT IT WILL NOT OFFER, RESELL, PLEDGE OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THE NOTES EVIDENCED HEREBY, EXCEPT (A) TO THE COMPANY; (B) UNDER A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT; (C) TO A PERSON THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) THAT IS PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF ANOTHER QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER AND TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, ALL IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A (IF AVAILABLE); (D) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION COMPLYING WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT; OR (E) UNDER ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT; AND (2) THAT IT WILL, PRIOR TO ANY TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE PURSUANT TO THE FOREGOING CLAUSE (E), FURNISH TO THE TRUSTEE AND THE COMPANY SUCH CERTIFICATIONS, LEGAL OPINIONS OR OTHER INFORMATION AS THEY MAY REQUIRE AND MAY RELY UPON TO CONFIRM THAT SUCH TRANSFER IS BEING MADE PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM, OR IN A TRANSACTION NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. IN ANY EVENT, NO AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY MAY RESELL THIS NOTE OTHER THAN IN CONFORMITY WITH RULE 144 BEFORE ONE YEAR AFTER THE LAST DATE OF ORIGINAL ISSUANCE OF NOTES."
 
(B) Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Note or Definitive Note issued pursuant to subparagraphs (b)(4), (c)(2), (c)(3), (d)(2), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(3) or (f) of this Section 2.5 (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) will not bear the Private Placement Legend. The Company may also provide a certificate to the Trustee instructing the Trustee that the Private Placement Legend no longer applies or issue one or more new Notes to the Trustee in replacement for all or part of the Notes with the Private Placement Legend.
(2) . Each Global Note will bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Global Note Legend
"THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (1) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.5 OF THE TWELFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (2) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.5(a) OF THE TWELFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (3) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 309 OF THE EXISTING INDENTURE AND (4) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF TENET HEALTHCARE CORPORATION.
UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN."
 
(h) At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note will be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 309 of the Existing Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of Notes represented by such Global Note will be reduced accordingly and an endorsement will be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note will be increased accordingly and an endorsement will be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes.
(i)
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges.
(1) To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof or at the Registrar's request.
(2) No service charge will be made to a Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note or to a Holder of a Definitive Note for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes or similar governmental charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Sections 304, 906 and 1107 of the Existing Indenture and Section 4.5 hereof).
(3) The Registrar will not be required to register the transfer of or exchange of any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part.
(4) All Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Notes or Definitive Notes will be the valid Obligations of the Company, evidencing the same Debt, and entitled to the same benefits under the Indenture, as the Global Notes or Definitive Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
(5) Neither the Registrar nor the Company will be required:
(A) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any Notes during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of any selection of Notes for redemption under Section 1103 of the Existing Indenture and ending at the close of business on the day of selection;
(B) to register the transfer of or to exchange any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part; or
(C) to register the transfer of or to exchange a Note between a record date and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date.
(6) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Note, the Trustee, any Agent and the Company may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, any Agent or the Company shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
(7) The Trustee will authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.2 hereof.
(8) All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted to the Registrar pursuant to this Section 2.5 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile.
Section 3.1.
Optional Redemption
(a) At any time or from time to time prior to August 1, 2013, the Company, at its option, may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes issued under the Indenture with the net cash proceeds of one or more Qualified Equity Offerings at a Redemption Price equal to 108% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon and Special Interest, if any, to the Redemption Date; that:
provided
(1) at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes issued under the Indenture remains outstanding immediately after the occurrence of such redemption; and
(2) the redemption occurs within 90 days of the date of the closing of any such Qualified Equity Offering.
(b) Except pursuant to the preceding paragraph and paragraph (d) below, the Notes will not be redeemable at the Company's option prior to August 1, 2015.
(c) At any time or from time to time after August 1, 2015, the Company, at its option, may redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at the Redemption Prices (expressed as percentages of principal amount) set forth below, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon and Special Interest, if any, to the applicable Redemption Date, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on August 1 of the years indicated:
 
(d) The Company, at its option, may redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at any time on or prior to August 1, 2015, at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed plus the Applicable Premium as of the Redemption Date, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon and Special Interest, if any, to, but not including, the Redemption Date.
 
(e) Other than as specifically provided in Section 3.2 hereof, any redemption pursuant to this Section 3.1 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Article Eleven of the Existing Indenture.
Section 3.2.
Selection of Notes to Be Redeemed
The following provision shall apply with respect to the Notes (notwithstanding the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 1103 of the Existing Indenture, which shall be deemed modified and amended by the following):
If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed at any time, selection of Notes for redemption will be made by the Trustee in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Notes to be redeemed are then listed, or, if the Notes are not so listed, on a pro rata basis, by lot or by such method in accordance with the policies and procedures of DTC; that Notes with a principal amount of $2,000 will not be redeemed in part.
provided
Section 3.3.
Sinking Fund
The Company is not required to make mandatory sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
Section 4.1.
Limitations on Liens
The Company covenants and agrees that neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries will issue, incur, create, assume or guarantee (collectively, ) any Debt secured by Liens upon any Principal Property, unless the Notes are secured equally and ratably with, or prior to, such Debt.
"incur"
The foregoing provisions shall not apply to:
(1) Liens securing the purchase price or cost of construction of property or additions, substantial repairs, alterations or improvements, if the Debt and the Liens are incurred within 12 months of the acquisition, the completion of construction and the full operation or completion of such additions, repairs, alterations or improvements;
(2) Liens existing on property at the time of its acquisition by the Company or its Subsidiaries or on the property of an entity at the time of the acquisition of such entity by the Company or its Subsidiaries, that the Liens were in existence prior to the closing of, and not incurred in contemplation of, such acquisition and, in the case of the acquisition of an entity, the Liens do not extend to any assets other than those of the entity acquired;
provided
(3) In the case of a Consolidated Subsidiary, Liens in favor of the Company or another Consolidated Subsidiary;
(4) Liens existing on the date of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture;
(5) Liens in favor of a government or governmental entity that:
(a) secure Debt that is guaranteed by the government or governmental entity, or
 
(b) secure Debt incurred to finance all or some of the purchase price or cost of construction of goods, products or facilities produced under contract or subcontract for the government or governmental entity;
(6) Liens arising in connection with the transfer of tax benefits in accordance with Section 168(f)(8) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (or any similar provision of law from time to time in effect); , that such Liens (i) are incurred within 90 days (or any longer period, not in excess of one year, as any such provision of law may from time to time permit) after the acquisition of the property or equipment subject to said Lien, (ii) do not extend to any other property or equipment, and (iii) are solely for the purpose of said transfer of tax benefits;
provided
(7) Liens created in substitution of or as replacements for any Liens permitted by clauses (1) to (6) set forth above, provided that the property encumbered by any substitute or replacement Lien is similar in nature and value to the property encumbered by the Lien that is being replaced; and
(8) Any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements), in whole or in part, of any Lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (1) to (7) inclusive of any Debt secured thereby; that the principal amount of Debt secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of Debt so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement, and that such extension, renewal or replacement Lien shall be limited to all or part of the same property that secured the Lien extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements on such property).
provided
Section 4.2.
Limitations on Sale and Lease-Back Transactions
The Company covenants and agrees that neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries will enter into any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction with another Person unless:
(i) the Company or such Subsidiary would be entitled, pursuant to Section 4.1, to incur Debt secured by a Lien on the property to be leased, without equally and ratably securing the Notes; or
(ii) the Company (and in any such case the Company covenants and agrees that it will do so) during or immediately after the expiration of 120 days after the effective date of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction (whether made by the Company or a Subsidiary) applies an amount equal to the greater of the net proceeds of the sale of the leased property or the fair value of the leased property to the acquisition, construction, addition, reparation, alteration or improvement of a Principal Property and/or to the voluntary retirement of any Debt of the Company which would be defined as long-term Debt on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Section 4.3.
Exception to Limitations
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Sections 4.1 or 4.2, the Company and any of its Subsidiaries may issue, incur, create, assume or guarantee Debt secured by Liens or enter into any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction that would otherwise be subject to the restrictions on Liens and Sale and Lease-Back Transactions described in Sections 4.1 and 4.2, respectively, that (i) the aggregate amount of all of the Company's Debt subject to the restriction on Liens described in Section 4.1 plus (ii) the aggregate Attributable Debt in respect of Sale and Lease-Back Transactions subject to the restriction on Sale and Lease-Back Transactions described in Section 4.2, does not exceed 15% of the Company's Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
provided
 
Section 4.4.
SEC Reports
If at any time the Company is no longer subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act for any reason, the Company will nevertheless continue to file with the Commission for public availability within the time periods that would have been applicable if the Company were subject to such reporting requirements:
(1) all quarterly and annual reports that would be required to be filed with the Commission on Forms 10-Q and 10-K if the Company were required to file such reports; and
(2) all current reports that would be required to be filed with the Commission on Form 8-K if the Company were required to file such reports.
All such reports shall be prepared in all material respects in accordance with all of the rules and regulations applicable to such reports. Each annual report on Form 10-K shall include a report on the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries by the Company's independent registered public accounting firm.
Section 4.5.
Offer to Repurchase Upon Change of Control
(a) Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, each Holder of Notes will have the right to require the Company to make an offer (a ) to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest and Special Interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased, to the date of purchase (the ).
"Change of Control Offer"
"Change of Control Payment"
Within 30 days following any Change of Control, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control and stating:
(1) that the Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 4.5 and that all Notes tendered will be accepted for payment;
(2) the purchase price and the purchase date, which shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date of such Change of Control (the );
"Change of Control Payment Date"
(3) that any Note not tendered will continue to accrue interest;
(4) that, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Change of Control Payment, all Notes accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer will cease to accrue interest after the Change of Control Payment Date;
(5) that Holders electing to have any Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender the Notes, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" attached to the Notes completed, or transfer by book-entry transfer, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice prior to the close of business on the third Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date;
(6) that Holders will be entitled to withdraw their election if the Paying Agent receives, not later than the close of business on the second Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of Notes delivered for purchase, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have the Notes purchased; and
 
(7) that Holders whose Notes are being purchased only in part will be issued new Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, which unpurchased portion must be equal to $2,000 in principal amount or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes pursuant to a Change of Control Offer. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Section 4.5, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 4.5 by virtue of such compliance.
(b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will:
(1) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(2) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and
(3) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being purchased by the Company.
The Paying Agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any; that each such new Note issued for surrendered but unpurchased Notes will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The Company will publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
provided
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 4.5, the Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 4.5 and purchases all Notes properly tendered and not validly withdrawn under the Change of Control Offer.
(d) Notwithstanding anything to contrary in this Section 4.5, a Change of Control Offer may be made in advance of a Change of Control, conditional upon such Change of Control, if a definitive agreement is in place for the Change of Control at the time of the making of the Change of Control Offer.
(e) The Company may, with respect to the Notes, omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in this Section 4.5, if before the time for such compliance the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or effect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect. No supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Note affected thereby, modify any of the provisions of this Section 4.5(e), except to increase the percentage required to waive compliance by the Company of the covenants referenced here, provided, however, that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section 4.5(e).
 
Section 5.1.
Events of Default
, wherever used herein with respect to the Notes, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
"Event of Default"
(1) default in the payment of any interest (including any Special Interest) upon any Note when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(2) default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) on any Note at its Maturity; or
(3) Reserved; or
(4) default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or warranty of the Company in the Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with or which has expressly been included in the Indenture solely for the benefit of series of Securities other than the Notes), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
(5) a default under any bond, debenture, note or other evidence of Debt by the Company (including a default with respect to Securities of any series other than the Notes) having an aggregate principal amount outstanding in excess of the greater of (i) $25,000,000 and (ii) 5% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets, whether such Debt now exists or shall hereafter be created, which default shall constitute a failure to pay principal of such Debt when due and payable (other than as a result of acceleration), after expiration of any applicable grace period with respect thereto, or shall have resulted in such Debt becoming or being declared due and payable prior to the date on which it would otherwise have become due and payable, without such Debt having been discharged, such failure to pay at maturity having been cured or paid or such default or acceleration having been rescinded or annulled, within a period of 10 days after there shall have been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes a written notice specifying such default and requiring the Company to cause such Debt to be discharged or cause such acceleration to be rescinded or annulled, as the case may be, and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; that, subject to the provisions of Sections 601 and 602 of the Existing Indenture, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of such default unless either (A) a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have actual knowledge of such default or (B) the Trustee shall have received written notice thereof from the Company, from any Holder, from the holder of any such Debt or from the trustee under any such mortgage, indenture or other instrument; or
provided, however,
 
(6) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable federal or state law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its properties, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or
(7) the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of it in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable federal or state law, or the consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its properties, or the making by the Company of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate, limited liability company or partnership action by the Company in furtherance of any such action; or
(8) failure by the Company to comply with the provisions of Section 4.5 of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture and continuance of such failure for a period of 30 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default".
Section 5.2.
Limitation on Suits
Other than as specifically provided in this Section 5.2, the right of a Holder of a Note to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or a trustee, or for any other remedy thereunder, shall be provided pursuant to Section 507 of the Existing Indenture. Section 507(3) of the Existing Indenture shall be deemed modified and amended as follows:
"(3) such Holder or Holders have offered reasonable indemnity to the Trustee to institute such proceeding as Trustee."
 
Section 6.1.
Defeasance and Discharge
Upon the Company's exercise of its option (if any) to have this Section 6.1 applied to the Notes, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its Obligations with respect to the Notes as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 6.3 are satisfied (hereinafter called ). For this purpose, such Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Debt represented by the Notes and to have satisfied all its other Obligations under the Notes and the Indenture insofar as the Notes are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments provided to it acknowledging the same), subject to the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (1) the rights of Holders of the Notes to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 6.3 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of and any premium and interest and Special Interest, if any, on the Notes when payments are due, (2) the Company's Obligations with respect to the Notes under Sections 304, 305, 306, 1002 and 1003 of the Existing Indenture and Section 2.5 of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, (3) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (4) this Article. Subject to compliance with this Article, the Company may exercise its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any Notes notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option (if any) to have Section 6.2 applied to such Notes.
"Defeasance"
Section 6.2.
Covenant Defeasance
Upon the Company's exercise of its option (if any) to have this Section applied to the Notes, (1) the Company shall be released from its Obligations under Sections 1006 through 1007 of the Existing Indenture, inclusive, and any covenants provided pursuant to Section 301(18), 901(2) or 901(7) of the Existing Indenture for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes and (2) the occurrence of any event specified in Sections 5.1(4) (with respect to any of Sections 1006 through 1007 of the Existing Indenture, inclusive, and any such covenants provided pursuant to Sections 4.1 through 4.5 of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture or Section 301(18), 901(2) or 901(7) of the Existing Indenture) and 5.1(5) and 5.1(8) shall be deemed not to be or result in an Event of Default, in each case with respect to the Notes as provided in this Section 6.2 on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 6.3 are satisfied (hereinafter called ). For this purpose, such Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the Notes, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such specified Section (to the extent so specified in the case of Section 5.1(4)), whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or by reason of any reference in any such Section to any other provision in the Indenture or in any other document, but the remainder of the Indenture and the Notes shall be unaffected thereby.
"Covenant Defeasance"
Section 6.3.
Conditions to Legal or Covenant Defeasance
The following shall be the conditions to the application of Section 6.1 or Section 6.2 to the Notes:
(1) The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee which satisfies the requirements contemplated by Section 609 of the Existing Indenture and agrees to comply with the provisions of this Article applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefits of the Holders of the Notes, (A) money (in U.S. dollars which shall not be invested) in an amount, or (B) U.S. Government Obligations which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (C) a combination thereof, in each case sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or any such other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, the principal of and any premium and interest and Special Interest, if any, on such Notes on the Maturity Date, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and the Notes. As used herein, means (x) any security which is (i) a direct obligation of the United States of America for the payment of which the full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged or (ii) an obligation of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America, which, in either case (i) or (ii), is not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and (y) any depositary receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act) as custodian with respect to any U.S. Government Obligation which is specified in Clause (x) above and held by such bank for the account of the holder of such depositary receipt, or with respect to any specific payment of principal of or interest on any U.S. Government Obligation which is so specified and held, that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of principal or interest evidenced by such depositary receipt.
"U.S. Government Obligation"
provided
 
(2) In the event of an election to have Section 6.2 apply to the Notes, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date of this instrument, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case (A) or (B) to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of the Notes will not recognize gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit, Defeasance and discharge to be effected with respect to the Notes and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit, Defeasance and discharge were not to occur.
(3) In the event of an election to have this Section 6.3 apply to the Notes, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of the Notes will not recognize gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit and Covenant Defeasance to be effected with respect to the Notes and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit and Covenant Defeasance were not to occur.
(4) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate to the effect that the Notes, if then listed on any securities exchange, will not be delisted as a result of such deposit.
(5) No event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such deposit or, with regard to any such event specified in Sections 5.1(6) and (7), at any time on or prior to the 90th day after the date of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until after such 90th day).
(6) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not cause the Trustee to have a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act (assuming all Securities are in default within the meaning of such Act).
 
(7) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound.
(8) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in the trust arising from such deposit constituting an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act unless such trust shall be registered under such Act or exempt from registration thereunder.
(9) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent with respect to such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
Section 7.1.
Conditions Precedent
The effectiveness of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture is conditioned upon the receipt by the Trustee of the items specified in Section 903 of the Existing Indenture.
Section 7.2.
Relationship to Existing Indenture
The Twelfth Supplemental Indenture is a supplemental indenture within the meaning of the Existing Indenture. The Existing Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture is in all respects ratified, confirmed and approved and, with respect to the Notes, the Existing Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
Section 7.3.
Modification of the Existing Indenture
Except as expressly modified by this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of the Existing Indenture shall govern the terms and conditions of the Notes.
Section 7.4.
Notices
Any notice or communication by the Company or the Trustee to the others is duly given if it writing and delivered in Person or by first class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), facsimile transmission or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the others' address:
If to the Company:
Tenet Healthcare Corporation
1445 Ross Avenue, Suite 1400
Dallas, TX 75202
Facsimile No.: (469) 893-3582
Attention: General Counsel
 
With a copy to:
Latham & Watkins LLP
355 South Grand Avenue
Los Angeles, CA 90071
Facsimile No.: (213) 891-8763
Attention: Steven B. Stokdyk
If to the Trustee:
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
700 South Flower Street, Suite 500
Los Angeles, CA 90017
Facsimile No.: (213) 630-6298
Attention: Corporate Unit
The Company or the Trustee, by notice to the other, may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
All notices and communications (other than those sent to Holders) will be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if transmitted by facsimile; and the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery.
The Trustee agrees to accept and act upon instructions or directions pursuant to this Indenture sent by unsecured e-mail, pdf, facsimile transmission or other similar unsecured electronic methods; , that (a) the party providing such written instructions, subsequent to such transmission of written instructions, shall provide the originally executed instructions or directions to the Trustee in a timely manner, and (b) such originally executed instructions or directions shall be signed by an authorized representative of the party providing such instructions or directions. If the party elects to give the Trustee e-mail or facsimile instructions (or instructions by a similar electronic method) and the Trustee in its discretion elects to act upon such instructions, the Trustee's understanding of such instructions shall be deemed controlling. The Trustee shall not be liable for any losses, costs or expenses arising directly or indirectly from the Trustee's reliance upon and compliance with such instructions notwithstanding such instructions conflict or are inconsistent with a subsequent written instruction. The party providing electronic instructions agrees to assume all risks arising out of the use of such electronic methods to submit instructions and directions to the Trustee, including without limitation the risk of the Trustee acting on unauthorized instructions, and the risk or interception and misuse by third parties.
provided, however
Any notice or communication to a Holder will be mailed by first class mail, certified or registered, return receipt requested, or by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery to its address shown on the register kept by the Registrar. Any notice or communication will also be so mailed to any Person described in TIA  313(c), to the extent required by the TIA. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it will not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders.
If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above within the time prescribed, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
If the Company mails a notice or communication to Holders, it will mail a copy to the Trustee and each Agent at the same time.
Section 7.5.
Governing Law
This instrument shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts of laws principles thereof.
 
Section 7.6.
Counterparts
This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 7.7.
Waiver of Jury Trial
EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Section 7.8.
Force Majeure
In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
 
Dated as of August 17, 2010
 
 
CUSIP/CINS
                    
 
promises to pay to [] or registered assigns,
            
the principal sum of DOLLARS on August 1, 2020.
                                                             
Interest Payment Dates: February 1 and August 1
Record Dates: January and July 15
Dated: , 20
                    
    
 
This is one of the Notes referred to
in the within-mentioned Indenture:
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
  as Trustee
 
 
 
 
[Insert the Global Note Legend, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture]
[Insert the Private Placement Legend, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture]
Capitalized terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
(1) . Tenet Healthcare Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Nevada (the ), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 8% per annum from , 20 until , 20 ("") and shall pay the Special Interest, if any, payable pursuant to Section 2 of the Registration Rights Agreement referred to below. The Company will pay interest and Special Interest, if any, semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each, an ). Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; that if there is no existing Event of Default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; that the first Interest Payment Date shall be , 20. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
I
NTEREST
"Company"
            
    
            
    
Maturity
"Interest Payment Date"
provided
provided further
                    
    
(2) . The Company will pay interest on the Notes and Special Interest, if any, to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the January 15 or July 15 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date. The Notes will be payable as to principal, premium and Special Interest, if any, and interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose within the City and State of New York, or, at the option of the Company, payment of interest and Special Interest, if any, may be made by check mailed to the Holders at their respective addresses set forth in the register of Holders; that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds will be required with respect to principal of and interest, premium and Special Interest, if any, on, all Global Notes and all other Notes the Holders of which will have provided wire transfer instructions to the Company or the Paying Agent. Such payment will be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Until otherwise designated by the Company, the office or agency of the Company in New York will be the office of the Trustee maintained for such purpose.
M P
ETHOD
OF
AYMENT
provided
(3) . Initially, the corporate trust department of The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., the Trustee under the Indenture, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
P A R
AYING
GENT
AND
EGISTRAR
(4) . The Company issued the Notes under an Indenture, dated as of November 6, 2001, between the Company and The Bank of New York, as predecessor trustee to the Trustee, as supplemented by the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture (the ), dated as of August 17, 2010 (as so supplemented, the ), between the Company and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the TIA. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling. The Indenture does not limit the aggregate principal amount of Notes that may be issued thereunder.
I
NDENTURE
"Twelfth Supplemental Indenture"
"Indenture"
 
(5) .
O R
PTIONAL
EDEMPTION
(a) Except as set forth in subparagraphs (b) and (c) of this Paragraph 5, the Company will not have the option to redeem the Notes prior to August 1, 2015. On or after August 1, 2015, the Company will have the option to redeem all or a part of the Notes upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the Redemption Prices (expressed as percentages of principal amount) set forth below plus accrued and unpaid interest and Special Interest, if any, on the Notes redeemed to the applicable Redemption Date, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on August 1 of the years indicated below:
 
Unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Redemption Price, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption on the applicable Redemption Date.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this Paragraph 5, at any time or from time to time prior to August 1, 2013, the Company, at its option, may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes issued under the Indenture with the net cash proceeds of one or more Qualified Equity Offerings at a Redemption Price equal to 108% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Special Interest, if any, to the Redemption Date; that at least 65% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes issued under the Indenture remains outstanding immediately after the occurrence of such redemption and that such redemption occurs within 90 days of the date of the closing of such Qualified Equity Offering.
provided
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this Paragraph 5, the Company, at its option, may redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at any time on or prior to August 1, 2015, at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes redeemed plus the Applicable Premium as of the Redemption Date, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but not including, the Redemption Date.
(6)
M R.
ANDATORY
EDEMPTION
The Company is not required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
(7) . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control, each Holder of Notes will have the right to require the Company to make an offer (a "") to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest and Special Interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased, to the date of purchase (the ). Within 30 days following any Change of Control, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder setting forth the procedures governing the Change of Control Offer as required by the Indenture.
R O H
EPURCHASE
AT
THE
PTION
OF
OLDER
Change of Control Offer
"Change of Control Payment"
 
(8) . Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address, except that redemption notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a Redemption Date if the notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Notes or a satisfaction or discharge of the Indenture. Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed.
N R
OTICE
OF
EDEMPTION
(9) . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Note or portion of a Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date.
D, T, E
ENOMINATIONS
RANSFER
XCHANGE
(10) . The registered Holder of a Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
P D O
ERSONS
EEMED
WNERS
(11) . Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture or the Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes including Additional Notes, if any, voting as a single class, and any existing Event or Default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture or the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes including Additional Notes, if any, voting as a single class. Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture or the Notes may be amended or supplemented to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes, to provide for the assumption of the Company's obligations to Holders of the Notes in case of a merger or consolidation, to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any such Holder or to comply with the requirements of the Commission in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA.
A, S W
MENDMENT
UPPLEMENT
AND
AIVER
(12) . Events of Default include: (i) default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on, or Special Interest, if any, with respect to the Notes; (ii) default in the payment when due of the principal of, or premium, if any, on, the Notes when the same becomes due and payable at Maturity; (iii) failure by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for 30 days after notice to the Company by the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes including Additional Notes, if any, then outstanding to comply with Section 4.5 of the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture; (iv) failure by the Company for 90 days after notice to the Company by the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes including Additional Notes, if any, then outstanding to comply with the covenants or warranties in the Indenture; (v) default under certain other agreements relating to Debt of the Company which default results in the acceleration of such Debt prior to its express maturity; and (vi) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Company. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable immediately. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, all outstanding Notes will become due and payable immediately without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Notes notice of any continuing Event of Default (except an Event of Default relating to the payment of principal or interest or premium or Special Interest, if any) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes by notice to the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes, rescind an acceleration or waive any existing Event of Default and its consequences under the Indenture except a continuing Event of Default in the payment of interest or premium or Special Interest, if any, on, or the principal of, the Notes. The Company is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Indenture, and the Company is required, upon becoming aware of any Event of Default, to deliver to the Trustee a statement specifying such Event of Default.
E D R
VENTS
OF
EFAULT
AND
EMEDIES
 
(13) . The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
T D C
RUSTEE
EALINGS
WITH
OMPANY
(14) . A director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder of the Company, as such, will not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Notes.
N R A O
O
ECOURSE
GAINST
THERS
(15) . This Note will not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
A
UTHENTICATION
(16) . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
A
BBREVIATIONS
(17) . In addition to the rights provided to Holders of Notes under the Indenture, Holders of Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes will have all the rights set forth in the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement dated as of August 17, 2010, among the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof or, in the case of Additional Notes, Holders of Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes will have the rights set forth in one or more registration rights agreements, if any, among the Company and the other parties thereto, relating to rights given by the Company to the purchasers of any Additional Notes (collectively, the ).
A R H R G N R D N
DDITIONAL
IGHTS
OF
OLDERS
OF
ESTRICTED
LOBAL
OTES
AND
ESTRICTED
EFINITIVE
OTES
"Registration Rights Agreement"
 
(18) . Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes, and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption, and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP N
UMBERS
(19) THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WILL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
GOVERNING LAW.
The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture and/or the Registration Rights Agreement. Requests may be made to:
Tenet Healthcare Corporation
1445 Ross Avenue, Suite 1400
Dallas, TX 75202
Attention: Investor Relations
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                                                             
Date:
                    
 
 
 
 
Option of Holder to Elect Purchase
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.5 of the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, check the following box:
If you want to elect to have only part of the Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.5 of the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased:
Date:
                    
 
 
 
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Note or Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note, have been made:
 
 
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation
1445 Ross Avenue, Suite 1400
Dallas, TX 75202
Attention: Investor Relations
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
700 South Flower Street, Suite 500
Los Angeles, CA 90017
Attention: Corporate Unit
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 6, 2001, between Tenet Healthcare Corporation, as issuer (the "") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee to The Bank of New York, as supplemented by the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 17, 2010, between the Company and the Trustee (as so supplemented, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Company
Indenture
, (the "") owns and proposes to transfer the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount of $ in such Note[s] or interests (the ""), to (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
                    
Transferor
            
Transfer
            
Transferee
1. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A, and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Note and/or the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note or a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to Rule 144A
Securities Act
2. . The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a Person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) if the proposed transfer is being made prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on Transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Regulation S Global Note and/or the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note or a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to Regulation S
 
3. . The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Definitive Note pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A or Regulation S
(a) such Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act;
(b) such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof;
(c) such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act;
(d) such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in a Restricted Global Note or Restricted Definitive Notes and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by (1) a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form of Exhibit D to the Indenture and (2) if such Transfer is in respect of a principal amount of Notes at the time of transfer of less than $250,000, an Opinion of Counsel provided by the Transferor or the Transferee (a copy of which the Transferor has attached to this certification), to the effect that such Transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
4. .
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or of an Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
(a) . (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is pursuant to Rule 144
(b) . (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S
(c) . (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes or Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
Dated:
                            
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation
1445 Ross Avenue, Suite 1400
Dallas, TX 75202
Attention: Investor Relations
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
700 South Flower Street, Suite 500
Los Angeles, CA 90017
Attention: Corporate Unit
Re:
8% Senior Notes Due 2020
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 6, 2001, between Tenet Healthcare Corporation, as issuer (the "") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee to The Bank of New York, as supplemented by the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 17, 2010, between the Company and the Trustee (as so supplemented, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Company
Indenture
, (the "") owns and proposes to exchange the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified herein, in the principal amount of $ in such Note[s] or interests (the ""). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
                                                             
Owner
            
Exchange
1.
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Unrestricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
(a) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
Securities Act
(b) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
(c) . In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
(d) . In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
2.
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes for Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
(a) In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a Restricted Definitive Note with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Note issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Restricted Definitive Note.
(b) . In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in the [CHECK ONE] 144A Global Note, Regulation S Global Note, with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
 
Dated:
                            
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation
1445 Ross Avenue, Suite 1400
Dallas, TX 75202
Attention: Investor Relations
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
700 South Flower Street, Suite 500
Los Angeles, CA 90017
Attention: Corporate Unit
Re:
8% Senior Notes Due 2020
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 6, 2001, between Tenet Healthcare Corporation, as issuer (the "") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee to The Bank of New York, as supplemented by the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 17, 2010, between the Company and the Trustee (as so supplemented, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Company
Indenture
In connection with our proposed purchase of $ aggregate principal amount of:
            
(a) a beneficial interest in a Global Note, or
(b) a Definitive Note,
we confirm that:
1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
2. We understand that the offer and sale of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Notes or any interest therein, we will do so only (A) to the Company; (B) under a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act; (C) to a Person that we reasonably believe is a "Qualified Institutional Buyer" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) that is purchasing for its own account or for the account of another Qualified Institutional Buyer and to whom notice is given that the transfer is being made in reliance on Rule 144A, all in compliance with Rule 144A (if available); (D) in an offshore transaction complying with Rule 903 or Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act; or (E) under any other available exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
3. We understand that, prior to any transfer of the Notes pursuant to clause (E) of paragraph 2, we will be required to furnish to the Company such legal opinions as the Company may require and may rely upon to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act. We further understand that the Notes purchased by us will bear a legend to the foregoing effect. We understand that we may also be required to furnish to you and the Company such certifications and other information as you or the Company may require and may rely upon to confirm that any transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
 
4. We have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
5. We are not acquiring the Notes with a view towards any distribution thereof in a transaction that would violate the Securities Act or the securities laws of any state of the United States or any other applicable jurisdiction. We are acquiring the Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion and on behalf of which we have the full power to make the foregoing acknowledgments, representations and agreements.
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby. We understand that you and the Company and others will rely upon the truth and accuracy of the foregoing acknowledgments, representations and agreements and agree that, if any of the foregoing acknowledgments, representations and agreements is no longer accurate, we will promptly notify you and the Company of such inaccuracy.
 
 
Dated:
                            
 

Exhibit 10.1
Execution Version
This Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement (this "") is made and entered into as of August 17, 2010, by and among Tenet Healthcare Corporation, a Nevada corporation (the ""), and Barclays Capital Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and Scotia Capital (USA) Inc. (collectively, the ""). Each of the Initial Purchasers has agreed to purchase the Company's 8% Senior Notes due 2020 (the ""), pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated August 3, 2010, by and among the Company and Barclays Capital Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as representatives of the Initial Purchasers (the "").
Agreement
Company
Initial Purchasers
Initial Notes
Purchase Agreement
In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to purchase the Initial Notes, the Company has agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the obligations of the Initial Purchasers under the Purchase Agreement. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meaning assigned to them in the Indenture, dated as of November 6, 2001, or the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 17, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee to The Bank of New York, relating to the Initial Notes and the Exchange Notes (as defined below).
The parties hereby agree as follows:
SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS
As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized terms shall have the following meanings:
shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 144 of the Securities Act.
Affiliate
shall mean the interest that would otherwise accrue on the Notes under the terms thereof and the Indenture, without giving effect to the provisions of this Agreement.
Base Interest
shall mean any broker or dealer registered with the Commission under the Exchange Act.
Broker-Dealer
shall mean each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday that is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
shall mean the date on which the Initial Notes are initially issued.
Closing Date
shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or any other federal agency at the time administering the Exchange Act or the Securities Act, whichever is the relevant statute for the particular purpose.
Commission
an Exchange Offer shall be deemed "Consummated" for purposes of this Agreement upon the occurrence of (a) the filing and effectiveness under the Securities Act of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement relating to the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer, (b) the maintenance of such Exchange Offer Registration Statement continuously effective and the keeping of the Exchange Offer open for a period not less than the period required pursuant to Section 3(b) hereof and (c) the delivery by the Company to the Registrar under the Indenture of Exchange Notes in the same aggregate principal amount as the aggregate principal amount of Initial Notes validly tendered by Holders thereof and accepted by the Company pursuant to the Exchange Offer.
Consummate:
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(b) hereof.
Consummation Deadline
shall have the meanings set forth in Section 3(a) and 4(a) hereof.
Effectiveness Deadline
shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or any successor thereto, as the same may be amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
shall mean the Company's 8% Senior Notes due 2020, to be issued pursuant to the Indenture (i) in the Exchange Offer or (ii) as contemplated by Section 4 hereof.
Exchange Notes
 
shall mean the exchange and issuance by the Company of a principal amount of Exchange Notes (which shall be registered pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) equal to the outstanding principal amount of Initial Notes that are validly tendered by Holders and accepted by the Company in connection with such exchange and issuance.
Exchange Offer
shall mean the Registration Statement relating to the Exchange Offer, including the related Prospectus.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
shall mean the transactions in which the Initial Purchasers propose to sell the Initial Notes to certain "qualified institutional buyers," as such term is defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act and pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Exempt Resales
shall mean the date of the filing of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, with the Commission.
Filing Date
shall have the meanings set forth in Sections 3(a) and 4(a) hereof.
Filing Deadline
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2 hereof.
Holders
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8(a) hereof.
Indemnified Person
shall mean the Indenture, dated as of November 6, 2001, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee to The Bank of New York, as supplemented by the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture on August 17, 2010, as the same may be amended from time to time.
Indenture
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8(a) hereof.
Liabilities
shall mean, collectively, the Initial Notes to be issued and sold to the Initial Purchasers, and securities issued in exchange therefore or in lieu thereof pursuant to the Indenture.
Notes
shall mean the offering memorandum, dated as of August 3, 2010, prepared in connection with the offer and sale of the Initial Notes.
Offering Memorandum
shall mean the prospectus included in a Registration Statement at the time such Registration Statement is declared effective, as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement and by all other amendments thereto, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference into such Prospectus.
Prospectus
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.
Recommencement Date
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5 hereof.
Registration Default
shall mean any registration statement of the Company relating to (a) an offering of Exchange Notes pursuant to an Exchange Offer or (b) the registration for resale of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, in each case, (i) that is filed pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and (ii) including the Prospectus included therein, all amendments and supplements thereto (including post-effective amendments) and all exhibits and material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
shall mean Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 144
shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, or any successor thereto, as the same may be amended from time to time.
Securities Act
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4 hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5 hereof.
Special Interest
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.
Suspension Notice
 
shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. Section 77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date of the Indenture.
TIA
shall mean (a) each Initial Note, until the earliest to occur of (i) the date on which such Initial Note is exchanged in the Exchange Offer for an Exchange Note which is entitled to be resold to the public by the Holder thereof without complying with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act, (ii) the date on which such Initial Note has been disposed of in accordance with a Shelf Registration Statement (and the purchasers thereof have been issued Exchange Notes), or (iii) the date on which such Initial Note is sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act and (b) each Exchange Note held by a Broker-Dealer until the date on which such Exchange Note is disposed of by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the "Plan of Distribution" contemplated by the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (including the delivery of the Prospectus contained therein).
Transfer Restricted Securities
SECTION 2. HOLDERS
A Person is deemed to be a holder of Transfer Restricted Securities (each, a "") whenever such Person owns Transfer Restricted Securities.
Holder
SECTION 3. REGISTERED EXCHANGE OFFER
(a) Unless the Exchange Offer shall not be permitted by applicable federal law (after the procedures set forth in Section 6(a)(i) below have been complied with) or the policies, rules or regulations of the Commission, the Company shall (i) cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be filed with the Commission within 30 days after the earlier of (a) the date of filing of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 and (b) the date on which such report should have been timely filed under the Securities Act (such 30th day being the ""), (ii) use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Exchange Offer Registration Statement to become effective at the earliest possible time, but in no event later than 360 days after the date of the Offering Memorandum (such 360th day being the ""), (iii) in connection with the foregoing, (A) file all pre-effective amendments to such Exchange Offer Registration Statement as may be necessary in order to cause it to become effective, (B) file, if applicable, a post-effective amendment to such Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430A under the Securities Act and (C) cause all necessary filings, if any, in connection with the registration and qualification of the Exchange Notes to be made under the Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as are necessary to permit Consummation of the Exchange Offer, and (iv) as soon as practicable following the effectiveness of such Exchange Offer Registration Statement, use its commercially reasonable efforts to commence and Consummate the Exchange Offer. The Exchange Offer shall be on the appropriate form permitting (i) registration of the Exchange Notes to be offered in exchange for the Initial Notes that are Transfer Restricted Securities and (ii) resales of Exchange Notes by Broker-Dealers that tendered into the Exchange Offer Initial Notes that such Broker-Dealer acquired for its own account as a result of market making activities or other trading activities (other than Initial Notes acquired directly from the Company or any of its Affiliates) as contemplated by Section 3(c) below.
Filing Deadline
Effectiveness Deadline
(b) The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be effective continuously, and shall keep the Exchange Offer open for a period of not less than the minimum period required under applicable federal and state securities laws to Consummate the Exchange Offer; that in no event shall such period be less than 20 Business Days. The Company shall cause the Exchange Offer to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws. No securities other than the Exchange Notes shall be included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Exchange Offer to be Consummated on the earliest practicable date after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement has become effective but in no event later than 30 Business Days thereafter, unless required by applicable law or the policies, rules or regulations of the Commission (the last day of such period being the "").
provided, however,
Consummation Deadline
(c) The Company shall include a "Plan of Distribution" section in the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and indicate therein that any Broker-Dealer who holds Transfer Restricted Securities that were acquired for the account of such Broker-Dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (other than Initial Notes acquired directly from the Company or any Affiliate of the Company), may exchange such Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer. Such "Plan of Distribution" section shall also contain all other information with respect to such sales by such Broker-Dealers that the Commission may require in order to permit such sales pursuant thereto, but such "Plan of Distribution" shall not name any such Broker-Dealer or disclose the amount of Transfer Restricted Securities held by any such Broker-Dealer, except to the extent required by the Commission as a result of a change in policy, rules or regulations after the date of this Agreement.
 
Because such Broker-Dealer may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act and must, therefore, deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with its initial sale of any Exchange Notes received by such Broker-Dealer in the Exchange Offer, the Company shall permit the use of the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement by such Broker-Dealer to satisfy such prospectus delivery requirement. To the extent necessary to ensure that the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is available for sales of Exchange Notes by Broker-Dealers, the Company agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented, amended and current as required by and subject to the provisions of Section 6(a) and (c) hereof and in conformity with the requirements of this Agreement, the Securities Act and the policies, rules and regulations of the Commission as announced from time to time, for a period of 180 days from the Consummation Deadline or such shorter period as will terminate when all Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement have been sold pursuant thereto. The Company shall provide sufficient copies of the latest version of such Prospectus to such Broker-Dealers, promptly upon request, and in no event later than two Business Days after such request, at any time during such period.
SECTION 4. SHELF REGISTRATION
(a) . If (i) the Exchange Offer is not permitted by applicable law (after the Company has complied with the procedures set forth in Section 6(a)(i) below) or the policies, rules or regulations of the Commission or (ii) for any reason the Exchange Offer is not Consummated by the Consummation Deadline or (iii) if any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities shall notify the Company within 20 Business Days following the Consummation of the Exchange Offer that (A) such Holder was prohibited by applicable law or the policies, rules or regulations of the Commission from participating in the Exchange Offer; or (B) such Holder may not resell the Exchange Notes acquired by it in the Exchange Offer to the public without delivering a prospectus and the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not appropriate or available for such resales by such Holder; or (C) such Holder is a Broker-Dealer and holds Initial Notes acquired directly from the Company or any of its Affiliates, then the Company shall:
Shelf Registration
(x) file, on or prior to 30 days after the earlier of (i) the date on which the Company determines that the Exchange Offer Registration Statement cannot be filed as a result of clause (a)(i) above, (ii) the next Business Day following the Consummation Deadline, if the Exchange Offer is not Consummated by the Consummation Deadline and (iii) the date on which the Company receives the notice specified in clause (a)(iii) above (such earlier date, the ""), a shelf registration statement pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act (which may be an amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (the "")), relating to all Transfer Restricted Securities, and
Filing Deadline
Shelf Registration Statement
(y) shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to become effective on or prior to 90 days after the Filing Date (such 90th day, the "").
Effectiveness Deadline
If, after the Company has filed an Exchange Offer Registration Statement that satisfies the requirements of Section 3(a) above, the Company is required to file and make effective a Shelf Registration Statement solely because the Exchange Offer is not permitted under applicable law or the policies, rules or regulations of the Commission (i.e., as contemplated by clause (a)(i) above), then the filing of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of clause (x) above; that, in such event, the Company shall remain obligated to meet the Effectiveness Deadline set forth in clause (y).
provided
To the extent necessary to ensure that the Shelf Registration Statement is available for sales of Transfer Restricted Securities by the Holders thereof entitled to the benefit of this Section 4(a) and the other securities required to be registered therein pursuant to Section 6(b)(ii) hereof, the Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep any Shelf Registration Statement required by this Section 4(a) continuously effective, supplemented, amended and current as required by and subject to the provisions of Sections 6(b) and (c) hereof and in conformity with the requirements of this Agreement, the Securities Act and the policies, rules and regulations of the Commission as announced from time to time, for a period of at least two years (as extended pursuant to Section 6(c)(i)) following the Closing Date, or such shorter period as will terminate when all Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant thereto.
 
(b) . No Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities may include any of its Transfer Restricted Securities in any Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such Holder furnishes to the Company in writing, within 20 days after receipt of a request therefor, the information specified in Item 507 or Item 508 of Regulation S-K, as applicable, of the Securities Act for use in connection with any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus or preliminary Prospectus included therein and such other information as the Company may reasonably request. No Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities shall be entitled to Special Interest pursuant to Section 5 hereof relating to a Shelf Registration Statement unless and until such Holder shall have provided all such information. Each selling Holder agrees to promptly furnish additional information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such Holder not materially misleading.
Provision by Holders of Certain Information in Connection with the Shelf Registration Statement
SECTION 5. SPECIAL INTEREST
If (i) any Registration Statement required by this Agreement is not filed with the Commission on or prior to the applicable Filing Deadline, (ii) any such Registration Statement has not been declared effective by the Commission on or prior to the applicable Effectiveness Deadline, (iii) the Exchange Offer has not been Consummated on or prior to the Consummation Deadline or (iv) any Registration Statement required by this Agreement is filed and declared effective but shall thereafter cease to be effective or fail to be usable for its intended purpose without being succeeded by a post-effective amendment to such Registration Statement that cures such failure and that is itself declared effective promptly (each such event referred to in clauses (i) through (iv), a ""), then the Company hereby agrees to pay to each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities affected thereby, as liquidated damages for such Registration Default, special interest (""), in addition to the Base Interest, which Special Interest shall accrue at a per annum rate of 0.25% for the first 90-day period immediately following the occurrence of such Registration Default, at a per annum rate of 0.50% for the second 90-day period following the occurrence of such Registration Default, at a per annum rate of 0.75% for the third 90-day period following the occurrence of such Registration Default and at a per annum rate of 1.0% thereafter for any remaining time period until all Registration Defaults have been cured; that the Company shall in no event be required to pay Special Interest for more than one Registration Default at any given time. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, (1) upon filing of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (and/or, if applicable, the Shelf Registration Statement), in the case of (i) above, (2) upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (and/or, if applicable, the Shelf Registration Statement), in the case of (ii) above, (3) upon Consummation of the Exchange Offer, in the case of (iii) above, or (4) upon the filing of a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or an additional Registration Statement that causes the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (and/or, if applicable, the Shelf Registration Statement) to again be declared effective or made usable in the case of (iv) above, the Special Interest payable with respect to the Transfer Restricted Securities as a result of such clause (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv), as applicable, shall cease.
Registration Default
Special Interest
provided
All accrued Special Interest shall be paid to the Holders entitled thereto, in the manner provided for the payment of interest in the Indenture, on each Interest Payment Date, as more fully set forth in the Indenture and the Notes. Notwithstanding the fact that any securities for which Special Interest is due cease to be Transfer Restricted Securities, all obligations of the Company to pay Special Interest with respect to such securities shall survive until such time as such obligations with respect to such securities shall have been satisfied in full. Notwithstanding anything contained herein or in the Indenture to the contrary, the payment of Special Interest shall be the only remedy available to Holders for any Registration Default.
SECTION 6. REGISTRATION PROCEDURES
(a) . In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Company shall (x) comply with all applicable provisions of Section 6(c) below, (y) use its commercially reasonable efforts to effect such exchange and to permit the resale of Exchange Notes by Broker-Dealers that validly tendered, in the Exchange Offer, Initial Notes that such Broker-Dealer acquired for its own account as a result of its market making activities or other trading activities (other than Initial Notes acquired directly from the Company or any of its Affiliates) being sold in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof, and (z) comply with all of the following provisions:
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
(i) If, following the date hereof there has been announced a change in the policies, rules or regulations of the Commission with respect to exchange offers such as the Exchange Offer, that in the reasonable opinion of counsel to the Company raises a substantial question as to whether the Exchange Offer is permitted by applicable law, the Company hereby agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to seek a no-action letter or other favorable decision from the Commission allowing the Company to Consummate an Exchange Offer for such Transfer Restricted Securities. In connection with the foregoing, the Company hereby agrees to take such other commercially reasonable actions as may be requested by the Commission or otherwise required in connection with the issuance of such decision, including without limitation (A) participating in telephonic conferences with the Commission, (B) delivering to the Commission staff an analysis prepared by counsel to the Company setting forth the legal bases, if any, upon which such counsel has concluded that such an Exchange Offer should be permitted and (C) diligently pursuing a resolution (which need not be favorable) by the Commission staff.
 
(ii) As a condition to its participation in the Exchange Offer, each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities (including, without limitation, any Holder who is a Broker-Dealer) shall furnish, upon the request of the Company, prior to the Consummation of the Exchange Offer, a written representation to the Company (which may be contained in the letter of transmittal contemplated by the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) to the effect that (A) it is not an Affiliate of the Company, (B) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any person to participate in, a distribution of the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (C) it is acquiring the Exchange Notes in its ordinary course of business. As a condition to its participation in the Exchange Offer, each Holder using the Exchange Offer to participate in a distribution of the Exchange Notes hereby acknowledges and agrees that, if the resales are of Exchange Notes obtained by such Holder in exchange for Initial Notes acquired directly from the Company or an Affiliate thereof, it (1) could not, under the policies, rules or regulations of the Commission as in effect on the date of this Agreement, rely on the position of the Commission enunciated in (available June 5, 1991) and (available May 13, 1988), as interpreted in the Commission's letter to dated July 2, 1993, and similar no-action letters (including, if applicable, any no-action letter obtained pursuant to clause (i) above), and (2) must comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act in connection with a secondary resale transaction and that such a secondary resale transaction must be covered by an effective registration statement containing the selling security holder information required by Item 507 or 508, as applicable, of Regulation S-K.
Morgan Stanley and Co. Inc.
Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation
Shearman & Sterling
(iii) Prior to effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall provide a supplemental letter to the Commission (A) stating that the Company is registering the Exchange Offer in reliance on the position of the Commission enunciated in (available May 13, 1988), (available June 5, 1991) as interpreted in the Commission's letter to dated July 2, 1993, and, if applicable, any no-action letter obtained pursuant to clause (i) above, (B) including a representation that the Company has not entered into any arrangement or understanding with any Person to distribute the Exchange Notes to be received in the Exchange Offer and that, to the best of the Company's information and belief, each Holder participating in the Exchange Offer is acquiring the Exchange Notes in its ordinary course of business and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution of the Exchange Notes received in the Exchange Offer and (C) providing any other commercially reasonable undertaking or representation required by the Commission as set forth in any no-action letter obtained pursuant to clause (i) above, if applicable.
Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation
Morgan Stanley and Co. Inc.
Shearman & Sterling
(b) . In connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, if any, the Company shall:
Shelf Registration Statement
(i) (x) comply with all the provisions of Section 6(c) below and (y) use its commercially reasonable efforts to effect such registration to permit the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities being sold in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof (as indicated in the information furnished to the Company pursuant to Section 4(b) hereof), and pursuant thereto the Company will prepare and file with the Commission a Registration Statement relating to the registration on any appropriate form under the Securities Act, which form shall be available for the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof within the time periods and otherwise in accordance with the provisions hereof; and
 
(ii) issue, subject to compliance with the applicable Indenture, upon the request of any Holder or purchaser of Initial Notes covered by any Shelf Registration Statement contemplated by this Agreement, Exchange Notes having an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of Initial Notes sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement and surrendered to the Company for cancellation; the Company shall register Exchange Notes on the Shelf Registration Statement for this purpose and issue the Exchange Notes to the purchaser(s) of securities subject to the Shelf Registration Statement in the names as such purchaser(s) shall designate; , that the Holder shall pay any transfer taxes or other fees charged in connection with such registration of Exchange Notes.
provided
(c) . In connection with any Registration Statement and any related Prospectus required by this Agreement, the Company shall:
General Provisions
(i) use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective and provide all requisite financial statements for the period specified in Section 3 or 4 of this Agreement, as applicable. Upon the occurrence of any event that would cause any such Registration Statement (A) to contain an untrue statement of material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or (B) not to be effective and usable for resale of Transfer Restricted Securities during the period required by this Agreement, the Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to file promptly an appropriate amendment to such Registration Statement curing such defect, and, if Commission review is required, use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such amendment to be declared effective as soon as practicable;
(ii) use its commercially reasonable efforts to prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and post-effective amendments to the applicable Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period set forth in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as the case may be; cause the Prospectus to be supplemented by any required Prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act, and to comply fully with Rules 424, 430A and 462, as applicable, under the Securities Act in a timely manner; and comply with the provisions of the Securities Act in connection with the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration Statement during the applicable period in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the sellers thereof set forth in such Registration Statement or supplement to the Prospectus;
(iii) advise each Holder promptly and, if requested by such Holder, confirm such advice in writing, (A) when the Prospectus or any Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment has been filed, and, with respect to any applicable Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto, when the same has become effective, (B) of any request by the Commission for amendments to the Registration Statement or amendments or supplements to the Prospectus or for additional information relating thereto, (C) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement under the Securities Act or of the suspension by any state securities commission of the qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation of any proceeding for any of the preceding purposes, (D) of the existence of any fact or the happening of any event that makes any statement of a material fact made in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, any amendment or supplement thereto or any document incorporated by reference therein untrue, or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Registration Statement in order to make the statements therein not misleading, or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Prospectus in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. If at any time the Commission shall issue any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, or any state securities commission or other regulatory authority shall issue an order suspending the qualification or exemption from qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities under state securities or Blue Sky laws, the Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the withdrawal or lifting of such order at the earliest possible time;
 
(iv) subject to Section 6(c)(i), if any fact or event contemplated by Section 6(c)(iii)(D) above shall exist or have occurred, use commercially reasonable efforts to prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of Transfer Restricted Securities, the Prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
(v) if requested by an Initial Purchaser or a Holder, furnish to each Holder in connection with such exchange or sale, if any, before filing with the Commission, copies of any Registration Statement or any Prospectus included therein or any amendments or supplements to any such Registration Statement or Prospectus (including all documents incorporated by reference after the initial filing of such Registration Statement), which documents will be subject to the review and comment of such Holders in connection with such sale, if any, for a period of at least five Business Days if practicable, or such shorter time period as is practicable, and the Company will not file any such Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any such Registration Statement or Prospectus (including all such documents incorporated by reference) to which such Holders shall reasonably object within five Business Days after the receipt thereof. A Holder shall be deemed to have reasonably objected to such filing only if such Registration Statement, amendment, Prospectus or supplement, as applicable, as proposed to be filed, contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or fails to comply with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act;
(vi) make available, at reasonable times, for inspection by one Holder designated by a majority of the Holders and any attorney or accountant retained by such Holders, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents of the Company and cause the Company's officers, directors and employees to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Holder, attorney or accountant in connection with such Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto subsequent to the filing thereof and prior to its effectiveness; that any information that is designated in writing by the Company as confidential at the time of delivery of such information shall be kept confidential by the Holders or any such attorney or accountant, unless such disclosure is required by law;
provided, however,
(vii) if requested by any Holders in connection with such exchange or sale, promptly include in any Registration Statement or Prospectus, pursuant to a supplement or post-effective amendment if necessary, such information as such Holders may reasonably request to have included therein, including, without limitation, information relating to the "Plan of Distribution" of the Transfer Restricted Securities; , that the Company shall not be required to participate in a distribution of any derivative security by or on behalf of any Holder; and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment as soon as practicable after the Company is notified of the matters to be included in such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment;
provided
(viii) deliver to each Holder without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including each preliminary prospectus) and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Persons reasonably may request; the Company hereby consents to the use (in accordance with law) of the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto by each selling Holder in connection with the offering and the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto;
 
(ix) upon the request of any Holder, enter into such commercially reasonable agreements (including underwriting agreements) and make such customary representations and warranties and take all such other commercially reasonable actions in connection therewith in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of the Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to any applicable Registration Statement contemplated by this Agreement as may be reasonably requested by any Holder in connection with any sale or resale pursuant to any applicable Registration Statement. In such connection, the Company shall:
(A) upon request of any Holder, furnish (or in the case of paragraphs (2) and (3), use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause to be furnished) to each such Holder upon the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement:
(1) a certificate, dated such date, signed on behalf of the Company by (x) an executive officer of the Company and (y) a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company, confirming, as of the date thereof, the matters set forth in Section 6(g) of the Purchase Agreement and such other similar matters as such Holders may reasonably request;
(2) an opinion, dated the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, of counsel for the Company covering matters as are customarily covered in opinions requested in connection with underwritten offerings and such other matters as such Holder may reasonably request;
(3) a customary comfort letter, dated the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, from the Company's independent accountants, in the customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in comfort letters to underwriters in connection with underwritten offerings; and
(B) deliver such other documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the selling Holders to evidence compliance with the matters covered in clause (A) above and with any customary conditions contained in the any agreement entered into by the Company pursuant to this clause (ix);
(x) prior to any public offering of Transfer Restricted Securities, cooperate with the selling Holders and their counsel in connection with the registration and qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as the selling Holders may request and do any and all other acts or things necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the applicable Registration Statement, but in no event for longer than 365 days from the effective date of the Registration Statement; that the Company shall not be required to register or qualify as a foreign corporation where it is not now so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to the service of process in suits or to taxation, other than as to matters and transactions relating to the Registration Statement, in any jurisdiction where it is not now so subject;
provided, however,
(xi) in connection with any sale of Transfer Restricted Securities that will result in such securities no longer being Transfer Restricted Securities, cooperate with the Holders to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Transfer Restricted Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends; and to register such Transfer Restricted Securities in such denominations and such names as the selling Holders may request at least two Business Days prior to such sale of Transfer Restricted Securities;
(xii) use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the disposition of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Registration Statement to be registered with or approved by such other governmental agencies or authorities as may be necessary to enable the seller or sellers thereof to consummate the disposition of such Transfer Restricted Securities, but in no event for longer than 365 days from the effective date of the Registration Statement, subject to the proviso contained in clause (x) above;
(xiii) provide a CUSIP number for all Transfer Restricted Securities not later than the effective date of a Registration Statement covering such Transfer Restricted Securities and provide the Trustee under the Indenture with typed certificates for the Transfer Restricted Securities which are in a form eligible for deposit with a custodian for the Depository Trust Company;
(xiv) otherwise use its commercially reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission, and make generally available to its security holders with regard to any applicable Registration Statement, as soon as practicable, a consolidated earning statement meeting the requirements of Rule 158 (which need not be audited) covering a twelve-month period beginning after the effective date of the Registration Statement (as such term is defined in paragraph (c) of Rule 158 under the Securities Act); and
 
(xv) cause the Indenture to be qualified under the TIA not later than the effective date of the first Registration Statement required by this Agreement and, in connection therewith, cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for such Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA; and execute and use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents that may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the Commission to enable such Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner.
(d) . Each Holder agrees by acquisition of a Transfer Restricted Security that, upon receipt of the notice referred to in Section 6(c)(iii)(C) or any notice from the Company of the existence of any fact of the kind described in Section 6(c)(iii)(D) hereof (in each case, a ""), such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the applicable Registration Statement until (i) such Holder has received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 6(c)(iv) hereof, or (ii) such Holder is advised in writing by the Company that the use of the Prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated by reference in the Prospectus (in each case, the ""). Each Holder receiving a Suspension Notice hereby agrees that it will either (i) destroy any Prospectuses, other than permanent file copies, then in such Holder's possession which have been replaced by the Company with more recently dated Prospectuses or (ii) deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies, other than permanent file copies, then in such Holder's possession of the Prospectus covering such Transfer Restricted Securities that was current at the time of receipt of the Suspension Notice. The time period regarding the effectiveness of such Registration Statement set forth in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as applicable, shall be extended by a number of days equal to the number of days in the period from and including the date of delivery of the Suspension Notice to the Recommencement Date.
Restrictions on Holders
Suspension Notice
Recommencement Date
SECTION 7. REGISTRATION EXPENSES
(a) All expenses incident to the Company's performance of or compliance with this Agreement will be borne by the Company, regardless of whether a Registration Statement becomes effective, including without limitation: (i) all registration and filing fees and expenses; (ii) all fees and expenses of compliance with federal securities and state Blue Sky or securities laws; (iii) all expenses of printing (including printing certificates for the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer and printing of Prospectuses), messenger and delivery services and telephone; (iv) all reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company; and (v) all fees and disbursements of independent certified public accountants of the Company (including the expenses of any special audit and comfort letters required by or incident to such performance).
The Company will, in any event, bear its internal expenses (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of its officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the expenses of any annual audit and the fees and expenses of any Person, including special experts, retained by the Company.
(b) In connection with any Shelf Registration Statement required by this Agreement, the Company will reimburse the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities who are selling or reselling Initial Notes or Exchange Notes pursuant to the "Plan of Distribution" contained in the Shelf Registration Statement for the reasonable fees and disbursements of not more than one counsel, who shall be selected by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities for whose benefit such Shelf Registration Statement is being prepared.
SECTION 8. INDEMNIFICATION
(a) . The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder, its directors, officers, and each person, if any, who controls such Holder within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Holder, director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement, preliminary prospectus or Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) provided by the Company to any Holder or any prospective purchaser of Exchange Notes or registered Initial Notes, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each such Holder and each such director, officer or controlling person for any and all expenses (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen pursuant to Section 8(c)) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Holder or such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; that the indemnity in this Section 8(a) shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information relating to any of the Holders furnished in writing to the Company by any of the Holders.
Indemnification of the Holders
provided, however,
 
(b) . Each Holder agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, officers and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Holder), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement, preliminary prospectus or Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in such Registration Statement, preliminary prospectus or Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Holder expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company and each such director, officer or controlling person for any and all expenses (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen pursuant to Section 8(c)) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by the Company or such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. In no event shall any Holder, its directors, officers or any person who controls such Holder be liable or responsible for any amount in excess of the amount by which the total amount received by such Holder with respect to its sale of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement exceeds (i) the amount paid by such Holder for such Transfer Restricted Securities and (ii) the amount of any damages that such Holder, its directors, officers or any person who controls such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
Indemnification of the Company
(c) In case any action shall be commenced involving any person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to Section 8(a) or 8(b) (the ""), the indemnified party shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the "") in writing and the indemnifying party shall assume and control the defense of such action, including the employment of counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party and the payment of all fees and expenses of such counsel, as incurred (except that in the case of any action in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to both Sections 8(a) and 8(b), a Holder shall not be required to assume the defense of such action pursuant to this Section 8(c), but may employ separate counsel and participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel, except as provided below, shall be at the expense of the Holder). Any indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any such action and participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnified party unless (i) the employment of such counsel shall have been specifically authorized in writing by the indemnifying party, (ii) the indemnifying party shall have failed to assume the defense of such action or employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party, and the indemnified party shall have been advised by such counsel that there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party (in which case the indemnifying party shall not have the right to assume the defense of such action on behalf of the indemnified party). In any such case, the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any one action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to any local counsel) for all indemnified parties and all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Such firm shall be designated in writing by a majority of the Holders, in the case of the parties indemnified pursuant to Section 8(a), and by the Company, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 8(b).
indemnified party
indemnifying person
 
(d) . The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include any statements as to or any findings of fault, culpability or failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements
(e) . If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 hereof is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, from their sale of Transfer Restricted Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and of the Holder, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and of the Holder, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Holder, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
Contribution
The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8 hereof, any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim. The provisions set forth in Section 8 hereof with respect to notice of commencement of any action shall apply if a claim for contribution is to be made under this Section 8(e); that no additional notice shall be required with respect to any action for which notice has been given under Section 8 hereof for purposes of indemnification.
provided, however,
The Company and each Holder agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(e) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 8(e).
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 8(e), no Holder, its directors, its officers or any person, if any, who controls such Holder shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total received by such Holder with respect to the sale of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement exceeds (i) the amount paid by such Holder for such Transfer Restricted Securities and (ii) the amount of any damages which such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11 of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Holders' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 8(e) are several, and not joint, in proportion to the respective principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities held by each Holder hereunder. For purposes of this Section 8(e), each director and officer of a Holder and each person, if any, who controls a Holder within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Holder, and each director and officer of the Company, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
 
SECTION 9. RULE 144A and RULE 144
The Company agrees with each Holder, for so long as any Transfer Restricted Securities remain outstanding and during any period in which the Company (i) is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, to make available, upon request of any Holder, to such Holder or beneficial owner of Transfer Restricted Securities in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchaser of such Transfer Restricted Securities designated by such Holder or beneficial owner, the information required by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act in order to permit resales of such Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to Rule 144A, and (ii) is subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, to use its commercially reasonable efforts to make all filings required thereby in a timely manner in order to permit resales of such Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to Rule 144.
SECTION 10. MISCELLANEOUS
(a) . The Company will not, on or after the date of this Agreement, enter into any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's securities under any agreement in effect on the date hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements
(b) . The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to or departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless (i) in the case of Section 5 hereof and this Section 10(b)(i), the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of all outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities and (ii) in the case of all other provisions hereof, the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities (excluding Transfer Restricted Securities held by the Company or its Affiliates). Notwithstanding the foregoing, a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose Transfer Restricted Securities are being tendered pursuant to the Exchange Offer, and that does not affect directly or indirectly the rights of other Holders whose Transfer Restricted Securities are not being tendered pursuant to such Exchange Offer, may be given by the Holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities subject to such Exchange Offer.
Amendments and Waivers
(c) . The Holders shall be third party beneficiaries to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent they may deem such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect its rights or the rights of Holders hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiary
(d) . All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telex, facsimile, or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery:
Notices
(i) if to a Holder, at the address set forth on the records of the Registrar under the Indenture, with a copy to the Registrar under the Indenture; and
(ii) if to the Company:
Tenet Healthcare Corporation
1445 Ross Avenue, Suite 1400
Dallas, Texas 75202
Facsimile No.: (469) 893-8600
Attention: General Counsel
 
With a copy to:
Latham & Watkins LLP
355 South Grand Avenue
Los Angeles, California 90071
Facsimile No.: (213) 891-8763
Attention: Steven B. Stokdyk
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if facsimiled; and on the next Business Day, if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee at the address specified in the Indenture.
(e) . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties, including without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; , that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Transfer Restricted Securities in violation of the terms hereof or of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Transfer Restricted Securities in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Transfer Restricted Securities shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Transfer Restricted Securities such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including the restrictions on resale set forth in this Agreement and, if applicable, the Purchase Agreement, and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.
Successors and Assigns
provided
(f) . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
(g) . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
(h) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAW RULES THEREOF.
Governing Law
(i) . In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
(j) . This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein. There are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein with respect to the registration rights granted with respect to the Transfer Restricted Securities. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) announced today the successful completion of its previously announced offering of $600 million aggregate principal amount of 8% Senior Notes due 2020. Tenet intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of the notes to purchase a portion of its 7.375% Senior Notes due 2013 in a tender offer. The notes were offered in a private placement.
DALLAS  August 17, 2010 
The notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. This press release is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.
 
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and periodic reports on Form 8-K. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.

Exhibit 99.2
 Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) announced today that, pursuant to the terms of its previously announced cash tender offer to purchase up to $800 million aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 7.375% senior notes due 2013, $781.5 million aggregate principal amount of the outstanding notes (approximately 78.3%) had been validly tendered prior to the expiration of the early tender time of 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on August 16, 2010. The terms of the tender offer are contained in an offer to purchase dated as of August 3, 2010 and a related letter of transmittal. The tender offer will expire at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on August 30, 2010.
DALLAS  August 17, 2010
Holders of notes that were validly tendered prior to the early tender time and that are accepted will receive total consideration of $1,055 per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which includes an early tender premium of $30 per $1,000 principal amount of notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, the settlement date.
Holders of notes that are validly tendered after the early tender time, but prior to the expiration of the tender offer, and accepted will receive the tender offer consideration of $1,025 per $1,000 principal amount of notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, the settlement date. Holders of notes tendered after the early tender time and accepted will not receive an early tender premium. Notes tendered after the withdrawal deadline of 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on August 16, 2010 may not be withdrawn except as required by law.
The aggregate principal amount of the notes to be purchased will be limited to $800 million. If the aggregate principal amount of notes tendered exceeds the limit, any notes purchased will be prorated pursuant to the terms of the offer to purchase. Tenet may amend, extend or terminate the tender offer in its sole discretion.
This news release is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell any notes. The tender offer is being made pursuant to an offer to purchase and related letter of transmittal, copies of which have been delivered to all holders of the notes. Persons with questions regarding the tender offer should contact one of the following dealer managers  Barclays Capital at (800) 438-3242 (toll free) or (212) 528-7581 (collect), BofA Merrill Lynch at (888) 292-0070 (toll free) or (980) 388-9217 (collect), Goldman, Sachs & Co. at (800) 828-3182 (toll free) or (212) 902-5183 (collect) or Citi at (800) 558-3745 (toll free)  or the Information Agent, Global Bondholder Services Corporation, at (866) 795-2200 (toll free) or (212) 430-3774 (collect).
Tenet Healthcare Corporation is a health care services company whose subsidiaries and affiliates own and operate acute care hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers and diagnostic imaging centers. Tenet's hospitals and related health care facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities they serve.
 
Media:
Rick Black (469) 893-2647
Rick.Black@tenethealth.com
Investors:
Thomas Rice (469) 893-2522
Thomas.Rice@tenethealth.com
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and periodic reports on Form 8-K. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.


