FILE:THC/THC-8K-20100625060137.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 24, 2010, Ronald A. Rittenmeyer was elected as an independent member of the Board of Directors of Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company"). Mr. Rittenmeyer will serve on the Board's Audit and Compensation Committees.
Mr. Rittenmeyer will participate in the non-employee director compensation programs described under "Director Compensation" in the Company's proxy statement filed on March 25, 2010. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Rittenmeyer and any other persons pursuant to which he was selected as a director. In addition, Mr. Rittenmeyer is not a party to any transaction with the Company reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act of 1933.
A copy of the Company's press release announcing Mr. Rittenmeyer's appointment is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
99.1    Press Release dated June 24, 2010
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 25, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE:THC) today announced that Ronald A. Rittenmeyer, former chairman, president and chief executive officer of Electronic Data Systems Corporation (EDS), has been named to its board of directors. Rittenmeyer joins the board as an independent director. He fills a vacancy created in May 2010 through the retirement of former Tenet board member Don Williams. Rittenmeyer will serve on the audit and compensation committees.
DALLAS  June 24, 2010 
Rittenmeyer, 63, served at EDS from 2005 to 2008. He has also held senior leadership positions across multiple industries, including managing director of The Cypress Group, a private equity firm; chairman, CEO and president of Safety-Kleen, Inc.; CEO and president of AmeriServe Food Distribution; chairman, CEO and president of RailTex, Inc.; president and COO of Ryder TRS, Inc.; president and COO of Merisel; COO of Burlington Northern Railroad; and a variety of senior management roles with PepsiCo's Frito Lay and PepsiCo's Foods International Divisions. In April 2010, the Department of Treasury appointed Rittenmeyer to serve as an independent director of American International Group, Inc.
"We're pleased to have Ron join our board. He brings a valuable perspective on leadership and operations across a multitude of industries and economic environments," said Tenet's non-executive Chairman Edward A. Kangas.
"Ron's track record as a CEO is outstanding, and I look forward to the many contributions he will make to Tenet and to our board," said Tenet's president and CEO Trevor Fetter.
Tenet Healthcare Corporation is a health care services company whose subsidiaries and affiliates own and operate acute care hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers and diagnostic imaging centers. Tenet's hospitals and related health care facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities they serve. For more information, please visit .
www.tenethealth.com
Media:
Rick Black (469) 893-2647
Rick.Black@tenethealth.com
Investors:
Thomas Rice (469) 893-2522
Thomas.Rice@tenethealth.com
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and periodic reports on Form 8-K. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.


