FILE:THC/THC-8K-20100504073035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained herein is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition." This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On May 4, 2010, Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the financial results of the Company for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 4, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE:THC) today reported adjusted EBITDA of $298 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, an increase of $20 million, or 7.2 percent, as compared to $278 million for the first quarter of 2009. Net income attributable to common shareholders for the first quarter of 2010 was $88 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, compared to $44 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, excluding a gain of $134 million, or $0.28 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2009 related to the early extinguishment of debt. Including the gain, net income attributable to common shareholders in the first quarter of 2009 was $178 million, or $0.37 per diluted share.
DALLAS  May 4, 2010 
"We achieved another quarter of solid progress in EBITDA growth," said Trevor Fetter, president and chief executive officer. "Strong unit revenue growth offset soft volumes to drive revenue growth of 3.4 percent in the first quarter. This growth, coupled with solid cost control, produced a 7.2 percent increase in adjusted EBITDA. In the context of the continuing weak economic environment this was a very strong performance. On the basis of this solid first quarter, we are pleased to confirm our outlook for 2010 adjusted EBITDA."
Discussion of Results
All percentage changes compare Q1'10 to Q1'09. Same hospital and total company statistics are identical.
First quarter 2010 EBITDA performance was driven by solid revenue growth and incremental cost efficiencies. Admissions and outpatient visits declined by 2.0 percent and 1.8 percent, respectively. A very light flu season and weather-related disruptions in some of our markets contributed to the softening in patient volumes. Commercial managed care admissions and outpatient visits declined by 7.2 percent and 6.4 percent, respectively, but the acuity of those volumes increased. The trends for both admissions and outpatient visits improved month-by-month in the quarter.
Net operating revenues increased by $77 million, or 3.4 percent, reflecting unit revenue improvement, higher acuity, and a slight increase in favorable prior year cost report adjustments. Unit revenue growth was particularly strong in our outpatient business which reported a 7.7 percent increase in net outpatient revenue per visit. Commercial managed care revenues increased by 2.8 percent, supported by higher acuity.
Total controllable operating expenses increased by 1.3 percent, or 3.5 percent per adjusted patient day. This increase included a 4.5 percent increase in salaries, wages and benefits per adjusted patient day, primarily the result of salary increases awarded to our broad employee population on October 1, 2009. Other operating expenses declined by $5 million, including a decline in malpractice expense.
Bad debt expense, increased by $33 million, or 21.2 percent, and was within our 2010 Outlook range. The increase in bad debt expense was primarily the result of an increase in uninsured admissions of 11.9 percent and a decline in collection rates from the first quarter of 2009. The Company's collection rate from self-pay declined to 29.9 percent in the first quarter of 2010 as compared to 31.4 percent in the first quarter of 2009, but only slightly from 30.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009. The significant decline in charity volumes in the first quarter of 2010 moderated the growth in the cost of providing uncompensated care, which increased by $6 million as compared to the first quarter of 2009.
Adjusted net cash used in operating activities from continuing operations was negative $17 million and adjusted free cash flow from continuing operations was negative $100 million, reflecting capital expenditures of $83 million. This is an improvement from the negative $133 million of adjusted free cash flow from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2009. The Company's usage of cash in the first quarter of each calendar year reflects annual cash payments for incentive compensation and our annual funding of the 401(k) match to employees. Cash and cash equivalents were $589 million at March 31, 2010. Net cash used in operating activities was $22 million in the first quarter of 2010 compared to net cash used in operating activities of $6 million in the first quarter of 2009. Numerous items contributed to the increase in cash usage in the first quarter of 2010, including a $52 million reduction in cash received from discontinued operations.
Management's Webcast Discussion of First Quarter Results
Tenet management will discuss first quarter 2010 results on a webcast scheduled for 10:00 AM (ET) on May 4, 2010. This webcast may be accessed through Tenet's website at . A set of slides, to which management intends to refer on the call, will be posted to the Company's website at approximately 7:30 AM (ET).
www.tenethealth.com/investors
Additional information regarding Tenet's quarterly results of operations, including detailed tabular operational data, is contained in its Form 10-Q report, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and posted on the Tenet investor relations website before today's webcast. This press release includes certain non-GAAP measures, such as Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Free Cash Flow. A reconciliation of these financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP measure is included in the financial tables at the end of this release.
Tenet Healthcare Corporation is a health care services company whose subsidiaries and affiliates own and operate acute care hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers and diagnostic imaging centers. Tenet's hospitals and related healthcare facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities they serve. For more information, please visit .
www.tenethealth.com
 
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and periodic reports on Form 8-K. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* This change is the difference between the 2010 and 2009 amounts shown
 
(1) Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders before (1) cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, net of tax, (2) net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, (3) preferred stock dividends, (4) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, (5) income tax (expense) benefit, (6) net gain (loss) on sales of investments, (7) investment earnings (loss), (8) gain (loss) from early extinguishment of debt, (9) interest expense, (10) litigation and investigation (costs) benefit, net of insurance recoveries, (11) hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs, (12) impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries, (13) depreciation and amortization. The Company's Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to EBITDA reported by other companies.
The Company provides this information as a supplement to GAAP information to assist itself and investors in understanding the impact of various items on its financial statements, some of which are recurring or involve cash payments. The Company uses this information in its analysis of the performance of its business excluding items that it does not consider as relevant in the performance of its hospitals in continuing operations. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure of liquidity, but is a measure of operating performance that management uses in its business as an alternative to net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders. Because Adjusted EBITDA excludes many items that are included in our financial statements, it does not provide a complete measure of our operating performance. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to use GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's financial performance.
The reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted EBITDA, is set forth in the first table below for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009.
(2) Adjusted Free Cash Flow
Adjusted Free Cash Flow, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as cash provided by (used in) operating activities less income tax refunds (payments), payments against reserves for restructuring charges and litigation costs, operating cash flows from discontinued operations, excluding income taxes, capital expenditures in continuing operations, and new hospital construction expenditures. The Company believes the use of Adjusted Free Cash Flow is meaningful as the use of this financial measure provides the Company and the users of its financial statements with supplemental information about the impact on the Company's cash flows from the items specified above. The Company provides this information as a supplement to GAAP information to assist itself and investors in understanding the impact of various items on its cash flows, some of which are recurring. The Company uses this information in its analysis of its cash flows excluding items that it does not consider relevant to the liquidity of its hospitals in continuing operations. Adjusted Free Cash Flow is a measure of liquidity that management uses in its business as an alternative to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. Because Adjusted Free Cash Flow excludes many items that are included in our financial statements, it does not provide a complete measure of our liquidity. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to use GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's financial performance or liquidity. The reconciliation of net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted Free Cash Flow is set forth in the second table below for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


