FILE:THC/THC-8K-20101102073039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained herein is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition." This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On November 2, 2010, Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the financial results of the Company for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 2, 2010
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Key Metrics
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subsequent Events in October
 
 
 
 
 Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE:THC) today reported adjusted EBITDA of $203 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, a decrease of $37 million, or 15.4 percent, compared to $240 million for the third quarter of 2009. Net income attributable to common shareholders for the third quarter of 2010 was $932 million, or $1.68 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $3 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2009. Net income in the third quarter of 2010 included the recognition of $981 million, or $1.75 per diluted share, of tax benefits primarily as a result of the reversal of the previously established valuation allowance against deferred tax benefits associated with the Company's net operating loss carryforward. The contribution from these deferred tax benefits was partially offset by a loss from early extinguishment of debt of $55 million pre-tax, $35 million after-tax, or $0.06 per diluted share.
DALLAS  Nov. 2, 2010
"Recognition of the value of our deferred tax assets provided a significant boost to our net income in the third quarter and reflects the progress we have made in achieving sustained and sustainable profitability," said Trevor Fetter, president and chief executive officer. "The soft economy, however, continued to challenge our volume growth and exerted pressure on our operating margins. We also had expected the revenues associated with the California provider fee plan to be recognized in the third quarter; it is now expected the recognition will occur in the fourth quarter pending CMS's anticipated approval of the managed care portion of the plan before year end. I am pleased to raise the lower end of our outlook range for 2010's adjusted EBITDA to a new range of $1.050 billion to $1.100 billion. Our 2010 outlook assumes an expected $64 million favorable impact from the California provider fee plan and the anticipated effect of our initiatives across a number of other fronts."
"In response to the continued adverse impact of a soft economy on our volumes, we took aggressive actions on our operations. As a result of these actions, our adjusted EBITDA was essentially flat after excluding the impact of certain items. Last year's third quarter benefited from the recognition of $20 million in favorable items, including favorable cost report adjustments, HMO distributions, and pension adjustments," said Biggs Porter, chief financial officer. "In contrast, this year's third quarter adjusted EBITDA was reduced by $16 million as a result of the aggregate net impact of discount rate effects on malpractice and workers' compensation expense related to the declining interest rate environment, incremental costs related to our healthcare information technology initiative, and net of favorable, but lower, cost report adjustments."
 
Discussion of Results
(All percentage changes compare Q3'10 to Q3'09.)
Third quarter 2010 adjusted EBITDA performance was adversely impacted by the continuing effects of the recession, including declining commercial enrollment and the deferral of elective procedures reflecting economic uncertainty and an increase in patient copays and deductibles. Admissions and outpatient visits declined by 3.5 percent and 2.0 percent, respectively. Adjusted admissions declined by 1.8 percent.
Net operating revenues were $2.262 billion, unchanged compared to net operating revenues in the third quarter of 2009. Net of favorable prior year cost report adjustments in both quarters, net operating revenues increased by $9 million, or 0.4 percent. Commercial managed care revenues increased by $8 million, or 0.9 percent.
Total controllable operating expenses increased by $43 million, or 2.4 percent. This increase included a $14 million charge due to an 84 basis point reduction in the discount rates used to calculate malpractice and workers' compensation expenses. Our healthcare information technology initiative expenses increased by $4 million compared to the third quarter of 2009. Total controllable costs per adjusted patient day increased by $95, or 4.9 percent. The increase in unit costs included a 4.9 percent increase in salaries, wages and benefits per adjusted patient day, primarily the result of merit increases awarded to our broad employee population on October 1, 2009, severance costs, the effect of lower volume on operating leverage, and increased physician employment.
Bad debt expense declined by $6 million, or 3.1 percent. The ratio of bad debt expense to net operating revenues declined to 8.3 percent, a decline of 20 basis points compared to 8.5 percent in the third quarter of 2009. Uninsured admissions and outpatient visits declined by 5.9 percent and 2.7 percent, respectively. However, charity admissions and outpatient visits grew by 16.0 percent and 11.5 percent, respectively, contributing to a $4 million increase in the estimated costs of providing care to charity and uninsured patients to $133 million, an increase of 3.1 percent.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $128 million in the third quarter of 2010 compared to $120 million in the third quarter of 2009. Adjusted net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $160 million compared to $233 million in the third quarter of 2009, a decline of $73 million. Adjusted free cash flow from continuing operations was $53 million in the third quarter of 2010 compared to $142 million in the third quarter of 2009, a decline of $89 million, primarily the result of the $37 million decline in adjusted EBITDA, a $31 million increase in accounts payable payments, a $16 million increase in capital expenditures, and a $13 million increase in interest payments, partially offset by an improvement in our accounts receivable days outstanding. Cash and cash equivalents were $398 million at September 30, 2010, a decrease of $313 million from June 30, 2010. The decline in cash was primarily attributable to the $274 million used to repurchase debt during the quarter and the acquisition of various outpatient imaging centers for $42 million. Subsequent to the third quarter of 2010, the company received proceeds of $46 million from the sale of a portion of its medical office buildings ("MOBs") in Florida. As previously announced, the company continues to negotiate the sale of 18 additional MOBs.
Management's Webcast Discussion of Third Quarter Results
Tenet management will discuss third quarter 2010 results on a webcast scheduled for 10:00 AM (ET) on November 2, 2010. This webcast may be accessed through Tenet's website at . A set of slides, to which management intends to refer on the call, will be posted to the Company's website at approximately 7:30 AM (ET).
www.tenethealth.com/investors
Additional information regarding Tenet's quarterly results of operations, including detailed tabular operational data, is contained in its Form 10-Q report, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and posted on the Tenet investor relations website before today's webcast. This press release includes certain non-GAAP measures, such as Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Free Cash Flow. A reconciliation of these financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP measure is included in the financial tables at the end of this release.
 
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation is a health care services company whose subsidiaries and affiliates own and operate acute care hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers and diagnostic imaging centers. Tenet's hospitals and related healthcare facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities they serve. For more information, please visit .
www.tenethealth.com
 
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and periodic reports on Form 8-K. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders before (1) cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, net of tax, (2) net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, (3) preferred stock dividends, (4) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, (5) income tax (expense) benefit, (6) investment earnings (loss), (7) gain (loss) from early extinguishment of debt, (8) net gain (loss) on sales of investments, (9) interest expense, (10) litigation and investigation (costs) benefit, net of insurance recoveries, (11) hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs, (12) impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries, and (13) depreciation and amortization. The Company's Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to EBITDA reported by other companies.
The Company provides this information as a supplement to GAAP information to assist itself and investors in understanding the impact of various items on its financial statements, some of which are recurring or involve cash payments. The Company uses this information in its analysis of the performance of its business excluding items that it does not consider as relevant in the performance of its hospitals in continuing operations. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure of liquidity, but is a measure of operating performance that management uses in its business as an alternative to net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders. Because Adjusted EBITDA excludes many items that are included in our financial statements, it does not provide a complete measure of our operating performance. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to use GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's financial performance.
The reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted EBITDA, is set forth in the first table below for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009.
(2) Adjusted Free Cash Flow
Adjusted Free Cash Flow, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as cash provided by (used in) operating activities less income tax refunds (payments), payments against reserves for restructuring charges and litigation costs, operating cash flows from discontinued operations, excluding income taxes, capital expenditures in continuing operations, and new hospital construction expenditures. The Company believes the use of Adjusted Free Cash Flow is meaningful as the use of this financial measure provides the Company and the users of its financial statements with supplemental information about the impact on the Company's cash flows from the items specified above. The Company provides this information as a supplement to GAAP information to assist itself and investors in understanding the impact of various items on its cash flows, some of which are recurring. The Company uses this information in its analysis of its cash flows excluding items that it does not consider relevant to the liquidity of its hospitals in continuing operations. Adjusted Free Cash Flow is a measure of liquidity that management uses in its business as an alternative to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. Because Adjusted Free Cash Flow excludes many items that are included in our financial statements, it does not provide a complete measure of our liquidity. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to use GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's financial performance or liquidity. The reconciliation of net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted Free Cash Flow is set forth in the second table below for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


