FILE:THC/THC-8K-20111216144046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On December 16, 2011, Tenet Healthcare Corporation ("Tenet") announced that Britt Reynolds, age 46, has been appointed Tenet's President of Hospital Operations, effective mid-January 2012. Tenet's Chief Operating Officer, Dr. Stephen L. Newman, will assume the title of Vice Chairman to serve during a management transition period until he begins retirement in June 2012. Mr. Reynolds joins Tenet from Health Management Associates, Inc. ("HMA"), where he has served as Senior Vice President and Divisional President since December 2008. Prior to joining HMA, he served as a multi-facility divisional vice president for seven years primarily in the northeast, mid-west and southeast. For more than 22 years he has held executive leadership roles in the proprietary and investor-owned sector and has worked with major healthcare organizations including Community Health Systems, HCA, Humana and not-for-profit systems.
Mr. Reynolds does not have a written employment agreement. Mr. Reynolds' initial base salary will be $650,000 per year. As a participant in Tenet's annual incentive plan, Mr. Reynolds will be eligible for an annual bonus, based on individual and company performance. His target bonus award percentage under the plan has been set at 95% of annual base salary. Mr. Reynolds will be eligible for annual stock-based incentives. He will also participate in Tenet's supplemental executive retirement plan, executive severance plan and other benefit plans available to Tenet executive officers and employees, as described in Tenet's Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on November 3, 2011. Following commencement of employment, Mr. Reynolds will receive a sign-on bonus of $462,000 and a grant of 225,000 restricted stock units.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 16, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Tenet Names Britt T. Reynolds President of Hospital Operations
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) today announced that Britt T. Reynolds, 46, has been named president of hospital operations effective mid-January 2012.
DALLAS  December 16, 2011 
In this new role reporting to Tenet's CEO, Reynolds will be responsible for Tenet's operations consisting of 50 hospitals and 90 outpatient facilities primarily serving urban and suburban communities in 13 states.
"We are excited to have Britt Reynolds join our organization. He is a rising star in our industry, and his strong track record of performance in hospital operations makes him an outstanding addition to our team," said Trevor Fetter, president and CEO of Tenet Healthcare. "His proven record of success and passion for providing quality healthcare services will advance our efforts to increase and enhance Tenet's operational performance."
Reynolds brings extensive operational and financial healthcare experience to Tenet. He joins the company from Health Management Associates, Inc. (HMA), where he served as senior vice president and division president overseeing HMA's largest division, encompassing 20 hospitals and related facilities in seven states. During his tenure at HMA, he led the integration of several acquisitions, including the company's largest and most recent for a seven hospital system, as well as numerous outpatient center transactions. He also strengthened HMA's approach in building physician relationships and was instrumental in implementing core company-wide operational, logistical and cultural initiatives.
Prior to joining HMA, Reynolds served as a multi-facility divisional vice president for seven years primarily in the northeast, mid-west and southeast. For more than 22 years he has held executive leadership roles in the proprietary and investor-owned sector and has worked with major healthcare organizations including Community Health Systems, HCA, Humana and not-for-profit systems.
Reynolds is a Fellow of the American College of Healthcare Executives (FACHE). He is a cum laude graduate from the University of Louisville where he earned a BA in Psychology. He also earned a Masters in Business Administration from Baker University in Baldwin City, Kansas.
Stephen L. Newman, M.D., will serve as Vice Chairman until his previously announced retirement in June, 2012 and continues to report to Tenet's CEO. Dr. Newman will continue to oversee the company's implementation of advanced clinical information systems. Additionally, he will continue to assist Tenet's clinical quality and physician relationship development efforts.
Tenet Healthcare Corporation is a health care services company whose subsidiaries and affiliates own and operate acute care hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers and diagnostic imaging centers. Tenet's hospitals and related health care facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities they serve. For more information, please visit www.tenethealth.com.
 
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and periodic reports on Form 8-K. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
EDITOR'S NOTE: An electronic photograph of Britt T. Reynolds is available by calling 469-893-2640.
 


