FILE:THC/THC-8K-20110225073038.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information contained herein is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition." This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On February 25, 2011, Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the financial results of the Company for the quarter and full year ended December 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 25, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Fourth Quarter 2010 Key Metrics
 
 
 
2010 Key Metrics
 
 
 
 
Subsequent Events in Q1'11
 
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE:THC) today reported adjusted EBITDA of $281 million for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $63 million, or 28.9 percent, compared to $218 million for the fourth quarter of 2009. Net income attributable to common shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2010 was $74 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, compared to $21 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2009.
DALLAS  Feb. 25, 2011 
"Our volume trends showed significant improvement in November and December compared to the first ten months of the year. Those strengthening trends have continued into January and February 2011. In the fourth quarter of 2010 we achieved a 3.2 percent increase in paying outpatient visits compared to 2009's fourth quarter. Strong pricing growth and continued excellent cost performance also contributed to a solid quarter. Our full year 2010 adjusted EBITDA of $1.05 billion is the highest in seven years, and the seventh consecutive year of EBITDA growth. Our adjusted EBITDA margin of 12.2 percent in the fourth quarter is the highest fourth quarter margin we've reported in seven years, and our full year 2010 margin of 11.4 percent is the highest in seven years," said Trevor Fetter, president and chief executive officer. "We are reconfirming our 2011 outlook for adjusted EBITDA in a range of $1.150 billion to $1.250 billion and we are introducing our 2011 outlook for net cash provided by operating activities in the range of $570 million to $740 million."
Discussion of Results
(Percentage changes compare Q4'10 to Q4'09, unless otherwise noted.)
Admissions and paying admissions declined by 2.0 percent and 2.2 percent, respectively. These declines were smaller than the respective declines of 3.5 percent and 3.9 percent in the sequential third quarter of 2010. Outpatient visits and paying outpatient visits increased by 2.9 and 3.2 percent, respectively compared to the fourth quarter of 2009. Adjusted admissions increased by 0.4 percent compared to the fourth quarter of 2009.
Net operating revenues were $2.301 billion, an increase of $40 million, or 1.8 percent, compared to net operating revenues of $2.261 billion in the fourth quarter of 2009. Net patient revenues per adjusted patient day increased by 2.4 percent.
Total controllable operating expenses decreased by $33 million, or 1.8 percent. This decrease included a favorable variance in malpractice expense. Total controllable costs per adjusted patient day declined by twenty dollars, or 1.0 percent. Controllable operating expenses is defined as the sum of salaries, wages and benefits, supplies, and other operating expenses.
Bad debt expense increased to $191 million from $181 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, an increase of $10 million, or 5.5 percent. The ratio of bad debt expense to net operating revenues rose to 8.3 percent, compared to 8.0 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009, an increase of 30 basis points. The sum of uninsured and charity admissions were flat in the fourth quarter, compared to the fourth quarter of 2009.
Adjusted net cash provided by operating activities was $180 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to $159 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, an increase of $21 million, or 13.2 percent. Adjusted free cash flow used in continuing operations was $16 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to a use of $33 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, a favorable change of $17 million. This was primarily the result of a decrease in tax payments, partially offset by an increase in working capital. Net cash provided by operating activities was $175 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to $141 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, an increase of $34 million, or 24.1 percent. Cash and cash equivalents were $405 million at December 31, 2010, an increase of $7 million from September 30, 2010. In addition to the above items, the increase in cash includes the receipt of $50 million from the sale of certain medical office buildings and the use of $21 million to purchase eleven outpatient centers.
Management's Webcast Discussion of Fourth Quarter Results
Tenet management will discuss fourth quarter 2010 results on a webcast scheduled for 9:00 AM (ET) on February 25, 2011. This webcast may be accessed through Tenet's website at . A set of slides, to which management intends to refer on the call, will be posted to the Company's website at approximately 7:30 AM (ET).
www.tenethealth.com/investors
Additional information regarding Tenet's quarterly results of operations, including detailed tabular operational data, is contained in its Form 10-K report, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and posted on the Tenet investor relations website before today's webcast. This press release includes certain non-GAAP measures, such as Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Free Cash Flow. A reconciliation of these financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP measure is included in the financial tables at the end of this release.
Tenet Healthcare Corporation is a health care services company whose subsidiaries and affiliates own and operate acute care hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers and diagnostic imaging centers. Tenet's hospitals and related healthcare facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities they serve. For more information, please visit .
www.tenethealth.com
 
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and periodic reports on Form 8-K. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders before (1) cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, net of tax, (2) net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, (3) preferred stock dividends, (4) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, (5) income tax (expense) benefit, (6) investment earnings (loss), (7) gain (loss) from early extinguishment of debt, (8) net gain (loss) on sales of investments, (9) interest expense, (10) litigation and investigation (costs) benefit, net of insurance recoveries, (11) hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs, (12) impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries, and (13) depreciation and amortization. The Company's Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to EBITDA reported by other companies.
The Company provides this information as a supplement to GAAP information to assist itself and investors in understanding the impact of various items on its financial statements, some of which are recurring or involve cash payments. The Company uses this information in its analysis of the performance of its business excluding items that it does not consider as relevant in the performance of its hospitals in continuing operations. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure of liquidity, but is a measure of operating performance that management uses in its business as an alternative to net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders. Because Adjusted EBITDA excludes many items that are included in our financial statements, it does not provide a complete measure of our operating performance. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to use GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's financial performance.
The reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted EBITDA, is set forth in the first table below for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.
(2) Adjusted Free Cash Flow
Adjusted Free Cash Flow, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as cash provided by (used in) operating activities less payments against reserves for restructuring charges and litigation costs, operating cash flows from discontinued operations, capital expenditures in continuing operations, and new hospital construction expenditures. The Company believes the use of Adjusted Free Cash Flow is meaningful as the use of this financial measure provides the Company and the users of its financial statements with supplemental information about the impact on the Company's cash flows from the items specified above. The Company provides this information as a supplement to GAAP information to assist itself and investors in understanding the impact of various items on its cash flows, some of which are recurring. The Company uses this information in its analysis of its cash flows excluding items that it does not consider relevant to the liquidity of its hospitals in continuing operations. Adjusted Free Cash Flow is a measure of liquidity that management uses in its business as an alternative to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. Because Adjusted Free Cash Flow excludes many items that are included in our financial statements, it does not provide a complete measure of our liquidity. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to use GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's financial performance or liquidity. The reconciliation of net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted Free Cash Flow is set forth in the second table below for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


