FILE:THC/THC-8K-20110328194808.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 7, 2011, Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") announced that its 2011 annual meeting of shareholders would be held on Thursday, November 3, 2011. In light of the 2011 annual meeting date, the Company has set a new deadline for the receipt of shareholder proposals submitted pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for inclusion in the Company's proxy materials for the 2011 annual meeting. In order to be considered timely, such proposals must be received by the Corporate Secretary at the Company's principal executive office at 1445 Ross Avenue, Suite 1400, Dallas, Texas 75202 no later than the close of business on June 10, 2011.
This deadline applies only to shareholder proposals submitted in accordance with Rule 14a-8 for inclusion in the Company's proxy materials related to the Company's 2011 annual meeting of shareholders. The deadline for the submission of all other shareholder proposals, as well as shareholder nominations of director candidates, to be brought before the Company's 2011 annual meeting of shareholders in accordance with the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws has already expired.
The Company will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") a proxy statement, accompanied by a WHITE proxy card, in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of shareholders. Any definitive proxy statement will be mailed to shareholders of the Company. INVESTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS OF THE COMPANY ARE URGED TO READ THESE AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors and shareholders will be able to obtain free copies of these documents (when available) and other documents filed by the Company with the SEC through the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov.
The Company and certain of its respective directors and executive officers are deemed to be participants under the rules of the SEC. Information regarding these participants is contained in a filing under Rule 14a-12 filed by the Company with the SEC on January 7, 2011. This filing and other documents can be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above. Additional information regarding the interests of these participants in any proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will also be included in any proxy statement and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on behalf of the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 28, 2011
 


