FILE:THC/THC-8K-20120109080529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02
      
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
 
The discussion set forth in Item 7.01 herein, including the information incorporated from Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 hereto, regarding the Company's preliminary 2011 results is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7.01
      
Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On January 9, 2012, Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release relating to its 2012 outlook and other matters.  A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
As previously announced, Tenet management will speak at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference on January 9, 2012 at approximately 2:30 p.m. Eastern Time.  At such time, management will discuss the topics addressed in the press release.  Tenet's remarks will be available live by webcast and may be accessed through the investor relations section of Tenet's website at www.tenethealth.com/investors.  A copy of the slide presentation to be used at the conference is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Certain statements contained in the press release and slide presentation filed as exhibits to this report constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Such forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Such factors include, among others, the following: the passage of health care reform legislation and the enactment of additional federal and state health care reform; other changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the health care industry; general economic and business conditions, both nationally and regionally; demographic changes; changes in, or the failure to comply with, laws and governmental regulations; the ability to enter into managed care provider arrangements on acceptable terms; changes in Medicare and Medicaid payments or reimbursement; liability and other claims asserted against the Company; competition, including the Company's ability to attract patients to its hospitals; technological and pharmaceutical improvements that increase the cost of providing, or reduce the demand for, health care; changes in business strategy or development plans; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including physicians, nurses and other health care professionals, and the impact on the Company's labor expenses resulting from a shortage of nurses or other health care professionals; the significant indebtedness of the Company; the Company's ability to integrate new businesses with its existing operations; the availability and terms of capital to fund the expansion of the Company's business, including the acquisition of additional facilities; the creditworthiness of counterparties to the Company's business transactions; adverse fluctuations in interest rates and other risks related to interest rate swaps or any other hedging activities the Company undertakes; the ability to continue to expand and realize earnings contributions from the revenue cycle management, health care information management, capitation management, and patient communications services businesses under our Conifer Health Solutions ("Conifer") subsidiary by marketing these services to third party hospitals and other health care-related entities; and its ability to identify and execute on measures designed to save or control costs or streamline operations.  Such factors also include the positive and negative effects of health reform legislation on reimbursement and utilization and the future designs of provider networks and insurance plans, including pricing, provider participation, coverage and co-pays and deductibles, all of which contain significant uncertainty, and for which multiple models exist which may differ materially from the Company's expectations.  Certain additional risks and
 
uncertainties are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.  The Company specifically disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
The press release and slide presentation filed as exhibits to this report include certain financial measures, such as adjusted EBITDA, that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  Management recommends that you focus on the GAAP numbers as the best indicator of financial performance.  These alternative measures are provided only as a supplement to aid in analysis of the Company.  Reconciliation between non-GAAP measures and related GAAP measures can be found at the end of the press release and the slide presentation.
 
Item 9.01
      
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
          
Exhibits
 
99.1
        
Press Release issued on January 9, 2012
 
99.2
        
Slide Presentation dated January 9, 2012
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
99.1
        
Press Release issued on January 9, 2012
 
99.2
        
Slide Presentation dated January 9, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
DALLAS  January 9, 2012 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE:THC) issued its Outlook for 2012 Adjusted EBITDA in a range of $1.200 billion to $1.300 billion. Tenet intends to provide a detailed review of its 2012 Outlook when it releases fourth quarter earnings on February 28, 2012.
 
"We are pleased to communicate our expectations for continued earnings growth in 2012," said Trevor Fetter, president and chief executive officer. "Our core strategies for growing and deepening our physician relationships, achieving additional cost efficiencies through our Medicare Performance Initiative, acquiring outpatient centers, and growing our Conifer services business are all working effectively. These growth strategies have more than offset pressures on government reimbursement and other effects of a soft economic environment."
 
The Company is in the process of finalizing its year-end financial results for 2011. At this point, it remains unresolved whether Tenet's fourth quarter will include the recognition of certain significant favorable pending reimbursement settlements. Fourth quarter 2011 results will be adversely impacted, relative to prior expectations, by the deferred recognition of $12 million in revenues related to Medicare Healthcare Information Technology ("HIT") incentive payments due to a change in accounting method and $7 million related to a decline in interest rates at quarter-end, which unfavorably impacted certain discounted liabilities. Neither of these two adverse items will impact cash. The Company said achieving the 2011 Outlook range for Adjusted EBITDA of $1.175 billion to $1.275 billion requires recording the pending reimbursement settlements in the fourth quarter as discussed above. Results for the fourth quarter of 2011 also will reflect a slight increase in admissions and approximately flat outpatient visits relative to the fourth quarter of 2010 and the recording of a $28 million net favorable impact related to the California Provider Fee Six-Month program which received all necessary approvals prior to year end.
 
The 2012 Adjusted EBITDA Outlook range of $1.200 billion to $1.300 billion includes the adverse impact from the aforementioned accounting change deferring the recognition in income of certain HIT incentive payments. The HIT incentives expected to be recognized in income in 2012 are approximately $31 million less than the amount that would have been recognized in 2012 prior to the accounting change. This does not affect the timing of cash receipt of these incentive payments.
 
The Company is confirming the prior Outlook range for Adjusted EBITDA in 2013 of $1.335 billion to $1.535 billion. The Outlook range for 2015, which includes the increased coverage of the uninsured pursuant to the Affordable Care Act, is reconfirmed at $1.75 billion to $2.25 billion.
 
Tenet Management To Speak at Investor Conference
 
As previously announced, Tenet management will discuss the topics addressed in this press release later today in a webcast scheduled to begin at 2:30 p.m. (ET).  This webcast may be accessed through Tenet's website at www.tenethealth.com/investors.  The Company expects to announce its final results for the fourth quarter and full year 2011 on February 28, 2012.
 
This press release includes certain non-GAAP measures, such as Adjusted EBITDA. A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income attributable to common shareholders is provided at the end of this release.
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation is a health care services company whose subsidiaries and affiliates own and operate acute care hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers and diagnostic imaging centers. Tenet's hospitals and related healthcare facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities they serve.  For more information, please visit www.tenethealth.com.
 
 
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements.  Such forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and periodic reports on Form 8-K. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated.  We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 


