FILE:THC/THC-8K-20120807080546.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02       Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information contained herein is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."  This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On August 7, 2012, Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the financial results of the Company for the quarter ended June 30, 2012.  A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Certain statements contained in the press release filed as an exhibit to this report constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Such forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Such factors include, among others, the following: the passage of health care reform legislation and the enactment of additional federal and state health care reform; other changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the health care industry; general economic and business conditions, both nationally and regionally; demographic changes; changes in, or the failure to comply with, laws and governmental regulations; the ability to enter into managed care provider arrangements on acceptable terms; changes in Medicare and Medicaid payments or reimbursement; liability and other claims asserted against the Company; competition, including the Company's ability to attract patients to its hospitals; technological and pharmaceutical improvements that increase the cost of providing, or reduce the demand for, health care; changes in business strategy or development plans; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including physicians, nurses and other health care professionals, and the impact on the Company's labor expenses resulting from a shortage of nurses or other health care professionals; the significant indebtedness of the Company; the Company's ability to integrate new businesses with its existing operations; the availability and terms of capital to fund the expansion of the Company's business, including the acquisition of additional facilities; the creditworthiness of counterparties to the Company's business transactions; adverse fluctuations in interest rates and other risks related to interest rate swaps or any other hedging activities the Company undertakes; the ability to continue to expand and realize earnings contributions from the revenue cycle management, health care information management, capitation management, and patient communications services businesses under our Conifer Health Solutions ("Conifer") subsidiary by marketing these services to third party hospitals and other health care-related entities; and its ability to identify and execute on measures designed to save or control costs or streamline operations.  Such factors also include the positive and negative effects of health reform legislation on reimbursement and utilization and the future designs of provider networks and insurance plans, including pricing, provider participation, coverage and co-pays and deductibles, all of which contain significant uncertainty, and for which multiple models exist which may differ materially from the Company's expectations.  Certain additional risks and uncertainties are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.  All information in this report and the press release is as of August 7, 2012.  The Company specifically disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
The press release filed as an exhibit to this report includes certain financial measures, such as adjusted EBITDA, that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  Management recommends that you focus on the GAAP numbers as the best indicator of financial performance.  These alternative measures are provided only as a supplement to aid in analysis of the Company.  Reconciliation between non-GAAP measures and related GAAP measures can be found at the end of the press release.
 
Item 9.01
                                           
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
99.1         Press Release issued on August 7, 2012
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
99.1         Press Release issued on August 7, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
DALLAS  August 7, 2012 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE:THC) today reported Adjusted EBITDA of $288 million for the second quarter ended June 30, 2012, an increase of $13 million, or 4.7 percent, as compared to Adjusted EBITDA of $275 million in the second quarter of 2011. Income from continuing operations was $42 million, or $0.10 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2012, compared to $40 million, or $0.08 per diluted share, in last year's second quarter. Net income attributable to common shareholders was a loss of $6 million, or a loss of $0.01 per diluted share, compared to net income of $55 million, or $0.11 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2011. In the second quarter of 2012 net income attributable to common shareholders included impairment and restructuring charges in discontinued operations of $100 million pre-tax, $50 million after-tax and after the noncontrolling interest benefit, or $0.12 per share, related to the previously announced anticipated sale of Creighton University Medical Center. The California Provider Fee 30-month Program contributed $47 million pre-tax, of which approximately $28 million was attributable to other reporting periods.
 
"We are pleased with our second quarter results which came in above our expectations," said Trevor Fetter, president and chief executive officer. "This strong performance was driven by growth in patient volumes and revenues. This was our seventh consecutive quarter in which adjusted admissions growth was positive. Several targeted service lines including major trauma and neuro-, thoracic-, oncology and vascular surgeries, contributed to volume growth in the quarter. And, on July 1 Conifer Health Solutions launched phase one of its ground-breaking partnership with Catholic Health Initiatives."
 
Discussion of Results  
(Percentage changes compare Q2'12 to Q2'11, unless otherwise noted.)
 
Adjusted admissions increased by 1.5 percent and total admissions declined by 0.4 percent. Surgery growth was strong increasing by 4.9 percent, and emergency department visits increased 5.0 percent.
 
Net operating revenues were $2.265 billion, an increase of $133 million, or 6.2 percent, compared to net operating revenues of $2.132 billion in the second quarter of 2011. Net revenues in the second quarter of 2012 included a net contribution of $47 million from the California Provider Fee 30-month Program of which approximately $28 million was attributable to other reporting periods. Tenet expects to recognize additional net revenues of approximately $66 million in the second half of 2012 related to this program.
 
Bad debt expense was $190 million compared to $168 million in the second quarter of 2011. Bad debt expense as a percent of revenues was 7.7 percent, an increase of 40 basis points compared to 7.3 percent in the second quarter of 2011, which remained within our 2012 Outlook range. Increased self-pay volume and various favorable settlements of aged managed care accounts in the 2011 period contributed to the increase in bad debt expense.
 
Net patient revenue per adjusted patient day was $2,543, an increase of 5.3 percent. This pricing increase reflects improved terms in our contracts with commercial managed care payers, partially offset by an adverse shift in payer mix.
 
Selected operating expenses, defined as the sum of salaries, wages and benefits, supplies and other operating expenses, increased by 3.5 percent per adjusted admission, which was favorable to the Company's expectations for the quarter. Supply costs were extremely well-controlled, declining 2.3 percent per adjusted admission.
 
Selected operating expenses included an adverse impact of $8 million due to additional costs as a result of declining interest rates.
 
The comparison of the Company's Adjusted EBITDA in the 2012 period to the second quarter of 2011 was adversely impacted by $25 million of healthcare information technology ("HIT") incentive payments recognized as earnings in last year's second quarter. No HIT incentive payments were recognized in the second quarter of 2012.
 
The Company initiated segment financial disclosures of Conifer Health Solutions ("Conifer") in the current quarter. Conifer reported $25 million in Adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter of 2012, which included $16 million of earnings for Conifer services provided to the Company's hospitals. No revenues were recognized in the second quarter of 2012 related to Conifer's recently announced partnership with Catholic Health Initiatives, which commenced on July 1, 2012.
 
Cash and cash equivalents were $82 million at June 30, 2012, a decrease of $22 million from $104 million at March 31, 2012. The balance on the Company's bank line was $200 million at June 30, 2012, a reduction of $83 million as compared to a balance of $283 million as of March 31, 2012. Cash flow from operations was $243 million in the second quarter of 2012, an increase of $65 million as compared to $178 million in the second quarter of 2011. Capital expenditures were $116 million in the second quarter of 2012 compared to $82 million in the second quarter of 2011.
 
Management's Webcast Discussion of Second Quarter Results
 
Tenet management will discuss the Company's second quarter 2012 results on a 10:00 AM (ET) webcast on August 7, 2012.  This webcast may be accessed through Tenet's website at www.tenethealth.com/investors.  A set of slides, which will be referenced on the call, are posted on the Company's website.
 
Additional information regarding Tenet's quarterly results of operations, including detailed tabular operational data, is contained in its Form 10-Q report, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and posted on the Tenet investor relations website before the webcast. This press release includes certain non-GAAP measures, such as Adjusted EBITDA. A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income attributable to Tenet common shareholders is included in the financial tables at the end of this release.
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, a leading health care services company, through its subsidiaries operates 50 hospitals, over 100 free-standing outpatient centers and Conifer Health Solutions, a leader in business process solutions for health care providers serving nearly 400 hospital and health care entities nationwide.  Tenet's hospitals and related health care facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities they serve.  For more information, please visit www.tenethealth.com.
 
Media: 
Rick Black (469) 893-2647                                Thomas Rice (469) 893-2522
Investors:
Rick.Black@tenethealth.com                                             Thomas.Rice@tenethealth.com
 
# # #
 
This document contains "forward-looking statements"  that is, statements relating to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "see," or "will." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain.  Particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include the factors disclosed under "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in our Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, periodic reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements contained in this press release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
 
 
 
*    This change is the difference between the 2012 and 2011 amounts shown
 
 
 
 
 
*
   
This change is the difference between the 2012 and 2011 amounts shown
 
 
 
 
 
* This change is the difference between the 2012 and 2011 amounts shown
 
 
 
 
Due to the fact that Conifer's revenues from providing services to Tenet's hospitals were based on third-party billing terms in 2012 but not in 2011, the following table presents proforma EBITDA on a comparable basis to the prior year's presentation.
 
 
Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA
 
Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders before (1) cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, net of tax, (2) net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, (3) preferred stock dividends, (4) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, (5) income tax (expense) benefit, (6) investment earnings (loss), (7) gain (loss) from early extinguishment of debt, (8) net gain (loss) on sales of investments, (9) interest expense, (10) litigation and investigation (costs) benefit, net of insurance recoveries, (11) hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs, (12) impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries, and (13) depreciation and amortization. The Company's Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to EBITDA reported by other companies.
 
The Company provides this information as a supplement to GAAP information to assist itself and investors in understanding the impact of various items on its financial statements, some of which are recurring or involve cash payments. The Company uses this information in its analysis of the performance of its business excluding items that it does not consider as relevant in the performance of its hospitals in continuing operations. In addition, from time to time we use this measure to define certain performance targets under our compensation programs. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure of liquidity, but is a measure of operating performance that management uses in its business as an alternative to net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders. Because Adjusted EBITDA excludes many items that are included in our financial statements, it does not provide a complete measure of our operating performance. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to use GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's financial performance.
 
The reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted EBITDA, is set forth in the first table below for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)
  Uses tax rate of 39 percent


