FILE:THC/THC-8K-20120911170110.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On September 6, 2012, the Board of Directors appointed Daniel J. Cancelmi as chief financial officer of Tenet Healthcare Corporation ("Tenet").  Mr. Cancelmi, age 49, has served as Tenet's senior vice president, controller and principal accounting officer since April 2009.  Between April 2007 and April 2009, he served as vice president, controller and principal accounting officer and, between September 2004 and April 2007, as vice president and controller.  A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Cancelmi's appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Mr. Cancelmi does not have a written employment agreement.  Mr. Cancelmi's annual base salary will be $475,000.  As a participant in Tenet's annual incentive plan, Mr. Cancelmi will be eligible for an annual bonus, based on individual and company performance.  His target bonus award percentage under the plan has been set at 85% of annual base salary.  Mr. Cancelmi will be eligible for annual stock-based incentives. He will also continue to participate in Tenet's supplemental executive retirement plan, executive severance plan and other benefit plans available to Tenet executive officers and employees, as described in Tenet's Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 10, 2012 (the "2012 Proxy Statement").
 
In connection with his appointment as chief financial officer, the Compensation Committee approved on September 7, 2012, an award to Mr. Cancelmi of 150,000 restricted stock units and 150,000 stock options, which will be issued on the last trading day of September 2012.  The stock options and restricted stock units will vest ratably on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant.
 
Upon Mr. Cancelmi's appointment as chief financial officer on September 6, 2012, Trevor Fetter, Tenet's president and chief executive officer, ceased to serve as Tenet's interim chief financial officer.
 
On September 10, 2012, R. Scott Ramsey was appointed to the position of Tenet's vice president, controller and principal accounting officer.  Mr. Ramsey, age 42, previously served as Tenet's senior director of corporate accounting, a position he has held since 2005.  Mr. Cancelmi, Tenet's chief financial officer, ceased to be Tenet's principal accounting officer upon Mr. Ramsey's appointment.
 
Mr. Ramsey does not have a written employment agreement.  Mr. Ramsey's annual base salary will be $290,000.  As a participant in Tenet's annual incentive plan, Mr. Ramsey will be eligible for an annual bonus, based on individual and company performance.  His target bonus award percentage under the plan has been set at 35% of annual base salary.  Mr. Ramsey will continue to be eligible to participate in Tenet's stock-based incentive plans, executive severance plan and other benefit plans available to Tenet officers and employees, as described in the 2012 Proxy Statement.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
99.1 Press Release issued on September 10, 2012
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
DALLAS  September 10, 2012 Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) today announced that Daniel J. Cancelmi has been appointed chief financial officer.  Cancelmi has served as the principal accounting officer of Tenet since 2007.  Cancelmi reports to Trevor Fetter, Tenet's president and chief executive officer.
 
"Dan Cancelmi has succeeded in every assignment he has led for Tenet.  His knowledge of our business, proven ability to partner with our operators, and his commitment to integrity in financial reporting and accounting control systems exemplify our values," said Trevor Fetter, president and chief executive officer.  "Having started his tenure with our hospitals more than 17 years ago, Dan knows our business from the bottom up.  His expansive knowledge of health care and track record of driving superior financial performance will be invaluable in his new role as the company's chief financial officer."
 
Cancelmi, 49, has held several finance positions involving increasingly broader responsibility for hospital financial operations, company-wide accounting practices and policies, SEC financial reporting and governmental reimbursement from Medicare and Medicaid programs.  Cancelmi began his career at Tenet serving as the chief financial officer of Hahnemann University Hospital.  In 2004 he was named controller at Tenet.  He was appointed principal accounting officer in 2007 and promoted to senior vice president in 2009.  Prior to his tenure at Tenet, Cancelmi held various positions at PricewaterhouseCoopers, including in the firm's National Accounting and SEC office in New York City.
 
Cancelmi is a Certified Public Accountant who holds a Bachelor of Science degree in accounting from Duquesne University in Pittsburgh.  He is also a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, a leading health care services company, through its subsidiaries operates 49 hospitals, over 100 free-standing outpatient centers and Conifer Health Solutions, a leader in business process solutions for health care providers serving nearly 400 hospital and health care entities nationwide.  Tenet's hospitals and related health care facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities they serve.  For more information, please visit www.tenethealth.com.
 
 
This document contains "forward-looking statements"  that is, statements that relate to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "see," or "will." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain.  Particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include the factors disclosed under "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, periodic reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained in this release is as of the date hereof. The Company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements contained in this release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
[NOTE TO EDITORS: A digital photograph of Dan Cancelmi is available by email on request. Please call Tenet's Corporate Communications department at (469) 893-2640.]


