FILE:THC/THC-8K-20120508073853.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02
                    
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
 
The information contained herein is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."  This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On May 8, 2012, Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the financial results of the Company for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.  A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Certain statements contained in the press release filed as an exhibit to this report constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Such forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Such factors include, among others, the following: the passage of health care reform legislation and the enactment of additional federal and state health care reform; other changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the health care industry; general economic and business conditions, both nationally and regionally; demographic changes; changes in, or the failure to comply with, laws and governmental regulations; the ability to enter into managed care provider arrangements on acceptable terms; changes in Medicare and Medicaid payments or reimbursement; liability and other claims asserted against the Company; competition, including the Company's ability to attract patients to its hospitals; technological and pharmaceutical improvements that increase the cost of providing, or reduce the demand for, health care; changes in business strategy or development plans; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including physicians, nurses and other health care professionals, and the impact on the Company's labor expenses resulting from a shortage of nurses or other health care professionals; the significant indebtedness of the Company; the Company's ability to integrate new businesses with its existing operations; the availability and terms of capital to fund the expansion of the Company's business, including the acquisition of additional facilities; the creditworthiness of counterparties to the Company's business transactions; adverse fluctuations in interest rates and other risks related to interest rate swaps or any other hedging activities the Company undertakes; the ability to continue to expand and realize earnings contributions from the revenue cycle management, health care information management, capitation management, and patient communications services businesses under our Conifer Health Solutions ("Conifer") subsidiary by marketing these services to third party hospitals and other health care-related entities; and its ability to identify and execute on measures designed to save or control costs or streamline operations.  Such factors also include the positive and negative effects of health reform legislation on reimbursement and utilization and the future designs of provider networks and insurance plans, including pricing, provider participation, coverage and co-pays and deductibles, all of which contain significant uncertainty, and for which multiple models exist which may differ materially from the Company's expectations.  Certain additional risks and uncertainties are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.  All information in this report and the press release is as of May 8, 2012.  The Company specifically disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
The press release filed as an exhibit to this report includes certain financial measures, such as adjusted EBITDA, that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  Management recommends that you focus on the GAAP numbers as the best indicator of financial performance.  These alternative measures are provided only as a supplement to aid in analysis of the Company.  Reconciliation between non-GAAP measures and related GAAP measures can be found at the end of the press release.
 
Item 9.01
                                            
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
99.1
                          
Press Release issued on May 8, 2012
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
99.1
                          
Press Release issued on May 8, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
DALLAS  May 8, 2012 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE:THC) today reported Adjusted EBITDA of $314 million for the first quarter ended March 31, 2012, and confirmed all disclosures provided in its earnings preview dated April 26, 2012. These previously released results included net operating revenues of $2.350 billion, an increase of 2.2 percent compared to the first quarter of 2011, and net income attributable to common shareholders of $58 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, compared to $73 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2011.
 
"Our volume growth metrics again rank among the very strongest in the investor-owned sector," said Trevor Fetter, president and chief executive officer. "It is especially encouraging that much of our volume growth is concentrated in the service lines we targeted for growth, including orthopedic and spinal surgeries, major trauma, and gastrointestinal disorders. The quarter's performance makes it abundantly clear that when individuals need immediate medical care they are increasingly turning to their local Tenet hospital. This is evidenced by the 5.2 percent increase in emergency department visits we achieved in the quarter. Our solid first quarter performance allowed us to raise our 2012 Outlook for Adjusted EBITDA by an additional $25 million. This was our second Outlook increase this year."
 
Discussion of Results  
(Percentage changes compare Q1'12 to Q1'11, unless otherwise noted.)
 
Adjusted admissions increased by 2.8 percent. Total admissions were approximately flat, declining by 0.1 percent, but normalized for a weak flu season, total admissions grew by 0.2 percent. Surgeries increased by 6.6 percent and Emergency Department visits increased by 5.2 percent.
 
Net operating revenues were $2.350 billion, an increase of $51 million or 2.2 percent, compared to net operating revenues of $2.299 billion in the first quarter of 2011. Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter of 2012 included $77 million from an industry-wide Medicare inpatient prospective payment settlement. This $77 million contribution to the first quarter 2012 Adjusted EBITDA is roughly comparable to the $75 million incremental revenue from the California and Pennsylvania Provider Fee programs that contributed to Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter of 2011.
 
Net patient revenue per adjusted patient day was $2,518, an increase of 1.6 percent. This pricing increase reflects improved terms in our contracts with commercial managed care payers, partially offset by an adverse shift in payer mix and very strong growth in obstetrics deliveries.
 
Selected operating expenses, which is defined as the sum of salaries, wages and benefits, supplies and other operating expenses, increased by 1.9 percent per adjusted admission. Supply costs were extremely well-controlled, declining 2.2 percent per adjusted admission.
 
Bad debt expense was $193 million, an increase of 6.0 percent, as compared to $182 million in the first quarter of 2011. Bad debt expense as a percent of revenues before provision for doubtful accounts was 7.6 percent, an increase of 30 basis points compared to 7.3 percent in the first quarter of 2011.
 
Cash and cash equivalents were $104 million at March 31, 2012, a decrease of $9 million from $113 million at December 31, 2011. Cash use in the first quarter of 2012 included the use of $26 million to repurchase 5.3 million shares of the Company's common stock. Capital expenditures were $136 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to $116 million in the first quarter of 2011.
 
 
Outlook for 2012 Adjusted EBITDA
 
On April 26, Tenet raised its 2012 Outlook for Adjusted EBITDA to a new range of $1.250 billion to $1.375 billion, an increase of $25 million. The pattern of earnings in 2012 is expected to be weighted toward the second half of the year, largely the result of two sizable items which are expected to be recorded in earnings in the fourth quarter: (1) approximately $120 million in net revenues from the California Provider Fee 30-Month Program and (2) approximately $35 million from Health Information Technology incentive payments. Consistent with this pattern, our Outlook range for Adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter of 2012 is $225-250 million.
 
Tenet's statements with regard to its outlook constitute forward-looking information and are subject to the qualifications set forth at the end of this release.
 
Repurchase of $299 Million of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock
 
On April 26, Tenet announced the repurchase of $299 million of mandatory convertible preferred stock. This preferred stock would have converted into approximately 51 million shares of the Company's common stock on October 1, 2012, based on the most recent closing share price. This most recent transaction, plus the 81 million shares repurchased as part of the $400 million common share repurchase program initiated in May, 2011, and completed in January, 2012, resulted in an aggregate reduction of 132 million fully diluted shares. In total, these two actions achieved a reduction in fully dilutive shares of approximately 25 percent. Following this transaction, the Company has 411 million primary weighted average shares outstanding and 434 million weighted average shares on a fully diluted basis.
 
In a related financing, the Company issued $150 million of 8% senior notes due August 1, 2020 and 141.2 million of 6.25% senior secured notes due November 1, 2018. Both S&P and Moody's reaffirmed, and Fitch upgraded, their ratings on Tenet's debt following these transactions.
 
Management's Webcast Discussion of First Quarter Results
 
Tenet management will discuss the Company's first quarter 2012 results on a 10:00 AM (ET) webcast on May 8, 2012.  This webcast may be accessed through Tenet's website at www.tenethealth.com/investors.
 
Additional information regarding Tenet's quarterly results of operations, including detailed tabular operational data, is contained in its Form 10-Q report, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and posted on the Tenet investor relations website before today's webcast. This press release includes certain non-GAAP measures, such as Adjusted EBITDA. A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income attributable to Tenet common shareholders is included in the financial tables at the end of this release.
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, a leading health care services company, through its subsidiaries operates 50 hospitals, over 100 free-standing outpatient centers and Conifer Health Solutions, a leader in business process solutions for health care providers that serves more than 300 hospital and health care entities nationwide.  Tenet's hospitals and related health care facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities they serve.  For more information, please visit www.tenethealth.com.
 
 
 
This document contains "forward-looking statements"  that is, statements that relate to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "see," or "will." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain.  Particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include the factors disclosed under "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in our Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, periodic reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements contained in this press release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
* This change is the difference between the 2012 and 2011 amounts shown
 
Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA
 
Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders before (1) cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, net of tax, (2) net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, (3) preferred stock dividends, (4) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, (5) income tax (expense) benefit, (6) investment earnings (loss), (7) gain (loss) from early extinguishment of debt, (8) net gain (loss) on sales of investments, (9) interest expense, (10) litigation and investigation (costs) benefit, net (11) hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs, (12) impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries, and (13) depreciation and amortization. The Company's Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to EBITDA reported by other companies.
 
The Company provides this information as a supplement to GAAP information to assist itself and investors in understanding the impact of various items on its financial statements, some of which are recurring or involve cash payments. The Company uses this information in its analysis of the performance of its business excluding items that it does not consider as relevant in the performance of its hospitals in continuing operations. In addition, from time to time we use this measure to define certain performance targets under our compensation programs. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure of liquidity, but is a measure of operating performance that management uses in its business as an alternative to net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders. Because Adjusted EBITDA excludes many items that are included in our financial statements, it does not provide a complete measure of our operating performance. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to use GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's financial performance.
 
The reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted EBITDA, is set forth in the first table below for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011.
 
 
 
(a)  Uses tax rate of 39 percent


