FILE:THC/THC-8K-20121107080504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information contained herein is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."  This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On November 7, 2012, Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the financial results of the Company for the quarter ended September 30, 2012.  A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Certain statements contained in the press release filed as an exhibit to this report constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Such forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Such factors include, among others, the following: the passage of health care reform legislation and the enactment of additional federal and state health care reform; other changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the health care industry; general economic and business conditions, both nationally and regionally; demographic changes; changes in, or the failure to comply with, laws and governmental regulations; the ability to enter into managed care provider arrangements on acceptable terms; changes in Medicare and Medicaid payments or reimbursement; liability and other claims asserted against the Company; competition, including the Company's ability to attract patients to its hospitals; technological and pharmaceutical improvements that increase the cost of providing, or reduce the demand for, health care; changes in business strategy or development plans; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including physicians, nurses and other health care professionals, and the impact on the Company's labor expenses resulting from a shortage of nurses or other health care professionals; the significant indebtedness of the Company; the Company's ability to integrate new businesses with its existing operations; the availability and terms of capital to fund the expansion of the Company's business, including the acquisition of additional facilities; the creditworthiness of counterparties to the Company's business transactions; adverse fluctuations in interest rates and other risks related to interest rate swaps or any other hedging activities the Company undertakes; the ability to continue to expand and realize earnings contributions from the revenue cycle management, health care information management, capitation management, and patient communications services businesses under our Conifer Health Solutions ("Conifer") subsidiary by marketing these services to third party hospitals and other health care-related entities; and its ability to identify and execute on measures designed to save or control costs or streamline operations.  Such factors also include the positive and negative effects of health reform legislation on reimbursement and utilization and the future designs of provider networks and insurance plans, including pricing, provider participation, coverage and co-pays and deductibles, all of which contain significant uncertainty, and for which multiple models exist which may differ materially from the Company's expectations.  Certain additional risks and uncertainties are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.  All information in this report and the press release is as of November 7, 2012.  The Company specifically disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
The press release filed as an exhibit to this report includes certain financial measures, such as adjusted EBITDA, that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  Management recommends that you focus on the GAAP numbers as the best indicator of financial performance.  These alternative measures are provided only as a supplement to aid in analysis of the Company.  Reconciliation between non-GAAP measures and related GAAP measures can be found at the end of the press release.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
99.1        Press Release issued on November 7, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
DALLAS  November 7, 2012 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE:THC) today reported Adjusted EBITDA of $269 million for the third quarter ended September 30, 2012, an increase of $77 million, or 40 percent, as compared to Adjusted EBITDA of $192 million in the third quarter of 2011. Net income attributable to common shareholders was $40 million, or $0.37 per diluted share, compared to $6 million, or $0.05 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2011.
 
"Strong revenue growth and disciplined cost control continue to drive our solid financial performance," said Trevor Fetter, president and chief executive officer. "Adjusted EBITDA increased 40 percent to create the Company's strongest third quarter in the last ten years. Net revenues grew by 5.8 percent reflecting strong volume increases and continued pricing strength. Our volume growth was one of the strongest in the investor-owned healthcare provider sector, and we recorded our eighth consecutive quarter of positive growth in adjusted admissions. Volume growth was led by a 6.3 percent increase in outpatient surgeries. Cost control was excellent. Conifer Health Solutions, Tenet's services business, reported another solid quarter contributing $24 million to Adjusted EBITDA."
 
"As we look to the fourth quarter, state officials in California recently informed the hospital industry that the managed care portion of the California Provider Fee program is not likely to be approved in 2012," said Mr. Fetter. "This program had been expected to contribute more than $40 million to Adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter. We now expect these earnings to be recognized in 2013. As a result of this delay and recent trends in volumes and payer mix, we now expect Adjusted EBITDA of approximately $1.2 billion for 2012."
 
Discussion of Results 
(Percentage changes compare Q3'12 to Q3'11, unless otherwise noted.)
 
In the third quarter, adjusted admissions increased by 1.4 percent, and total admissions declined by 0.5 percent. Outpatient surgeries extended their strong growth trend increasing by 6.3 percent and total emergency department visits increased by 4.9 percent.
 
Net operating revenues were $2.221 billion, an increase of $121 million, or 5.8 percent, compared to net operating revenues of $2.100 billion in the third quarter of 2011.
 
Bad debt expense as a percent of revenues was 8.5 percent, an increase of 20 basis points compared to 8.3 percent in the third quarter of 2011. The increase in bad debt expense was largely the result of the 7.9 percent increase in uninsured and charity outpatient visits.
 
Net patient revenue per adjusted admission was $11,579, an increase of 3.7 percent. This pricing increase primarily reflects improved terms in our contracts with commercial managed care payers.
 
Selected operating expenses, defined as the sum of salaries, wages and benefits, supplies and other operating expenses, increased by only 1.5 percent on a per adjusted admission basis. This favorable cost performance exceeded the Company's expectations for the quarter. Supply costs were extremely well-controlled, declining 2.2 percent per adjusted admission.
 
Cash and cash equivalents were $83 million at September 30, 2012 compared to $82 million at June 30, 2012. The balance on the Company's bank line was $175 million at September 30, 2012, a reduction of $25 million as compared to a balance of $200 million as of June 30, 2012. Approximately $60 million of California Provider Fee program revenues have been recognized in Adjusted EBITDA in 2012 that have not yet been received.
 
Outlook for Adjusted EBITDA in Fourth Quarter 2012 and Full Year 2013
 
The outlook range for Adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter of 2012 is $313 million to $353 million. This range reflects the delayed recognition of the revenue from the managed care portion of the California Provider Fee program into 2013. The Company's Outlook for 2013 Adjusted EBITDA is in a range of $1.325 billion to $1.425 billion, slightly above analyst consensus estimates.
 
Management's Webcast Discussion of Third Quarter Results
 
Tenet management will discuss the Company's third quarter 2012 results on a 9:00 AM (ET) webcast on November 7, 2012.  This webcast may be accessed through Tenet's website at www.tenethealth.com/investors.
 
Additional information regarding Tenet's quarterly results of operations, including detailed tabular operational data, is contained in its Form 10-Q report, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and posted on the Tenet investor relations website before the webcast. This press release includes certain non-GAAP measures, such as Adjusted EBITDA. A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income attributable to Tenet common shareholders is included in the financial tables at the end of this release.
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, a leading health care services company, through its subsidiaries operates 49 hospitals, over 100 free-standing outpatient centers and Conifer Health Solutions, a leader in business process solutions for health care providers that serves more than 500 hospital and health care entities nationwide.  Tenet's hospitals and related health care facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities they serve.  For more information, please visit www.tenethealth.com.
 
 
# # #
 
This document contains "forward-looking statements"  that is, statements relating to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "see," or "will." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain.  Particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include the factors disclosed under "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in our Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, periodic reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements contained in this press release as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
 
 
 
 
*   This change is the difference between the 2012 and 2011 amounts shown
 
 
Due to the fact that Conifer's revenues from providing services to Tenet's hospitals were based on third-party billing terms in 2012 but not in 2011, the following table presents 2012 Adjusted EBITDA on a comparable basis to the 2011 presentation.
 
(1) 
Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA
 
Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders before (1) cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, net of tax, (2) net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, (3) preferred stock dividends, (4) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, (5) income tax (expense) benefit, (6) investment earnings (loss), (7) gain (loss) from early extinguishment of debt, (8) net gain (loss) on sales of investments, (9) interest expense, (10) litigation and investigation (costs) benefit, net of insurance recoveries, (11) hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs, (12) impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries, and (13) depreciation and amortization. The Company's Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to EBITDA reported by other companies.
 
The Company provides this information as a supplement to GAAP information to assist itself and investors in understanding the impact of various items on its financial statements, some of which are recurring or involve cash payments. The Company uses this information in its analysis of the performance of its business excluding items that it does not consider as relevant in the performance of its hospitals in continuing operations. In addition, from time to time we use this measure to define certain performance targets under our compensation programs. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure of liquidity, but is a measure of operating performance that management uses in its business as an alternative to net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders. Because Adjusted EBITDA excludes many items that are included in our financial statements, it does not provide a complete measure of our operating performance. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to use GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's financial performance.
 
The reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted EBITDA, is set forth in the first table below for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011.
 
(a) Uses tax rate of 39 percent excluding unusual adjustments.


