FILE:THC/THC-8K-20120228073745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02
      
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
 
The information contained herein is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."  This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On February 28, 2012, Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the financial results of the Company for the quarter and full year ended December 31, 2011.  A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Certain statements contained in the press release filed as an exhibit to this report constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Such forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the Company's actual results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Such factors include, among others, the following: the passage of health care reform legislation and the enactment of additional federal and state health care reform; other changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the health care industry; general economic and business conditions, both nationally and regionally; demographic changes; changes in, or the failure to comply with, laws and governmental regulations; the ability to enter into managed care provider arrangements on acceptable terms; changes in Medicare and Medicaid payments or reimbursement; liability and other claims asserted against the Company; competition, including the Company's ability to attract patients to its hospitals; technological and pharmaceutical improvements that increase the cost of providing, or reduce the demand for, health care; changes in business strategy or development plans; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including physicians, nurses and other health care professionals, and the impact on the Company's labor expenses resulting from a shortage of nurses or other health care professionals; the significant indebtedness of the Company; the Company's ability to integrate new businesses with its existing operations; the availability and terms of capital to fund the expansion of the Company's business, including the acquisition of additional facilities; the creditworthiness of counterparties to the Company's business transactions; adverse fluctuations in interest rates and other risks related to interest rate swaps or any other hedging activities the Company undertakes; the ability to continue to expand and realize earnings contributions from the revenue cycle management, health care information management, capitation management, and patient communications services businesses under our Conifer Health Solutions ("Conifer") subsidiary by marketing these services to third party hospitals and other health care-related entities; and its ability to identify and execute on measures designed to save or control costs or streamline operations.  Such factors also include the positive and negative effects of health reform legislation on reimbursement and utilization and the future designs of provider networks and insurance plans, including pricing, provider participation, coverage and co-pays and deductibles, all of which contain significant uncertainty, and for which multiple models exist which may differ materially from the Company's expectations.  Certain additional risks and uncertainties are discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.  All information in this report and press release is as of February 28, 2012.  The Company specifically disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
The press release filed as an exhibit to this report includes certain financial measures, such as adjusted EBITDA, that are not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  Management recommends that you focus on the GAAP numbers as the best indicator of financial performance.  These alternative measures are provided only as a supplement to aid in analysis of the Company.  Reconciliation between non-GAAP measures and related GAAP measures can be found at the end of the press release.
 
Item 9.01
              
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
          
Exhibits
 
99.1
        
Press Release issued on February 28, 2012
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date:  February 28, 2012
99.1
        
Press Release issued on February 28, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
DALLAS  February 28, 2012 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE:THC) today reported Adjusted EBITDA of $294 million for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2011, an increase of $13 million, or 4.6 percent, compared to $281 million for the fourth quarter of 2010. The Adjusted EBITDA margin in the quarter was 13.2 percent, compared to 13.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010.
 
In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company reported a net loss attributable to common shareholders of $76 million, or a loss of $0.17 per diluted share, compared to income of $74 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2010. These results included a $117 million pre-tax loss from early extinguishment of debt incurred in relation to Tenet's strategy to extend debt maturities and reduce future interest expense. Excluding impairment, litigation and investigation costs, loss from early extinguishment of debt, and valuation tax adjustments from both fourth quarters, income from continuing operations, net of tax, was $42 million, or $0.10 per diluted share, compared to $43 million, or $0.08 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2010.
 
"We recorded our eighth consecutive year of growth in Adjusted EBITDA which grew to $1.145 billion in 2011, a 9.0 percent increase over 2010," said Trevor Fetter, president and chief executive officer. "The growth would have been even stronger had we been able to close some of the favorable payer settlements we have been working on for a number of months. Because the settlements remain likely, we are raising our 2012 Outlook for Adjusted EBITDA to a new range of $1.225 billion to $1.350 billion. We also recorded our fifth consecutive quarter of growth in adjusted admissions which grew by 1.3 percent. The favorable growth in patient volumes, combined with strong pricing growth, enabled us to achieve a 5.4 percent increase in net operating revenues in the quarter."
 
Discussion of Results
(Percentage changes compare Q4'11 to Q4'10, unless otherwise noted.)
 
Adjusted admissions increased by 1.3 percent. Admissions increased by 0.3 percent, and paying admissions were flat. Emergency Departments visits increased by 3.1 percent, and there was a 3.3 percent increase in admissions through our Emergency Departments. Total surgeries increased by 3.2 percent with inpatient surgeries declining by 3.1 percent and outpatient surgeries increasing by 7.6 percent.
 
Net operating revenues were $2.226 billion, an increase of $115 million, or 5.4 percent, compared to net operating revenues of $2.111 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010. As a result of the Company's early adoption of a new accounting standard, net operating revenues are now reported after a deduction for the provision for doubtful accounts. Under the Company's prior reporting standard, net operating revenues would have been $2.411 billion, an increase of 4.8 percent, compared to $2.301 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010.
 
Net patient revenue per adjusted admission was $11,633, an increase of 2.3 percent, compared to $11,370 in the fourth quarter of 2010. This pricing increase reflects improved terms in our contracts with commercial managed care payers, partially offset by an adverse shift in payer mix.
 
Selected operating expenses, which is defined as the sum of salaries, wages and benefits, supplies and other operating expenses, increased by 6.5 percent on a per adjusted patient day basis in the fourth quarter of 2011. The increase is primarily due to annual merit increases, an increase in the number of physicians we employ, and higher health benefit costs for our employees. The comparison to last year's fourth quarter was made more challenging by a $10 million favorable adjustment in that quarter related to the estimated recovery of payroll taxes paid in prior years on behalf of medical residents. Selected operating expenses were also adversely impacted by lower
 
interest rates at quarter-end which contributed $14 million of increased expense between the fourth quarter of 2011 and 2010. Although claims experience for both malpractice and workers' compensation expense continue to be favorable, lower interest rates increased the balances of these discounted liabilities. Supply costs were well-controlled, declining by $3 million, and were flat on a per adjusted patient day basis. Excluding the expenses from additional physician employment, the favorable payroll tax adjustment in the 2010 quarter, and expenses related to lower interest rates, the 6.5 percent increase in selected expenses per adjusted patient day would have been 4.4 percent.
 
Bad debt expense was $185 million, a decline of 2.6 percent, as compared to $190 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Bad debt expense as a percent of revenues before provision for doubtful accounts declined to 7.7 percent, a decline of 60 basis points compared to 8.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. The improvement in bad debt expense primarily was due to favorable adjustments related to updates to our estimates of collection rates in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to unfavorable adjustments in the fourth quarter of 2010. The change in bad debt expense also was impacted favorably by deterioration in the age of managed care receivables in the fourth quarter of 2010 that did not occur in the fourth quarter of 2011.
 
Cash and cash equivalents were $113 million at December 31, 2011, a decrease of $72 million from $185 million at September 30, 2011. Cash used in the fourth quarter of 2011 included $178 million to repurchase 40.3 million shares of the Company's common stock and $28 million for the purchase of five outpatient centers and certain assets related to acquired physician practices. Capital expenditures were $177 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, compared to $196 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had an outstanding balance of $80 million on its credit line.
 
Through December 31, 2011, the Company repurchased an aggregate total of 75.8 million shares of common stock since announcing its $400 million share repurchase program in May, 2011. These 75.8 million repurchased shares represent 15.5 percent of outstanding common shares at the time the program was initiated. The average repurchase price was $4.94 per share for a total expenditure of approximately $374 million. At December 31, 2011, there were 415 million shares of common stock outstanding. The full $400 million common stock repurchase program was completed in January 2012.  In total, 81.1 million shares, or 17 percent of our outstanding shares, were repurchased at an average price of $4.94.
 
Outlook for Adjusted EBITDA
 
Tenet raised its 2012 Outlook for Adjusted EBITDA to a new range of $1.225 billion to $1.350 billion. Other than expected outpatient acquisitions, the Company's 2012 Outlook represents purely organic growth.
 
Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter of 2012 is expected to comprise approximately one-fifth of the Company's total Adjusted EBITDA for the year. This reflects the expectation that the approximately $140 million in state provider fees will be recognized in the second half of the year. In addition, the expected ramp up of Tenet's strategic initiatives, including cost efficiencies related to the Medicare Performance Initiative and incremental outpatient acquisitions, are expected to make more significant contributions to earnings in the second half of the year.
 
Tenet reconfirmed its 2013 Outlook range for Adjusted EBITDA of $1.335 billion to $1.535 billion. The 2015 Outlook range for Adjusted EBITDA, which includes the increased coverage of the uninsured pursuant to the Affordable Care Act, was reconfirmed at $1.75 billion to $2.25 billion.
 
Tenet's statements on outlook constitute forward-looking information and are subject to the qualifications set forth at the end of this release.
 
Management's Webcast Discussion of Fourth Quarter Results
 
Tenet management will discuss fourth quarter 2011 results on a webcast scheduled for 10:00 AM (ET) on February 28, 2012.  This webcast may be accessed through Tenet's website at www.tenethealth.com/investors.  A set of slides that management intends to refer to on the call will be posted to the Company's website at shortly before the start of the webcast.
Additional information regarding Tenet's quarterly results of operations, including detailed tabular operational data, is contained in its Form 10-K report, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and posted on the Tenet investor relations website before today's webcast. This press release includes certain non-GAAP measures, such as Adjusted EBITDA. A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income attributable to Tenet common shareholders is included in the financial tables at the end of this release.
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, a premier health care services company, operates 50 hospitals, 99 free-standing outpatient centers and Conifer Health Solutions, a leader in business process solutions for health care providers that serves over 250 hospital and health care entities nationwide.  Tenet's hospitals and related health care facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities they serve.  For more information, please visit www.tenethealth.com.
 
 
This document contains "forward-looking statements"  that is, statements that relate to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "see," or "will." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain.  Particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include the factors disclosed under "Forward Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, periodic reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained in this earnings release and the attachments is as of February 28, 2012. The Company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements contained in this earnings release or the attachments as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*
                
This change is the difference between the 2011 and 2010 amounts shown
(1)
         
Number of  hospitals includes the 49 general hospitals and our critical access facility
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
              
Number of  hospitals includes the 49 general hospitals and our critical access facility
(1) 
Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA
 
Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders before (1) cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, net of tax, (2) net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, (3) preferred stock dividends, (4) income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, (5) income tax (expense) benefit, (6) investment earnings (loss), (7) gain (loss) from early extinguishment of debt, (8) net gain (loss) on sales of investments, (9) interest expense, (10) litigation and investigation (costs) benefit, net of insurance recoveries, (11) hurricane insurance recoveries, net of costs, (12) impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill and restructuring charges, net of insurance recoveries, and (13) depreciation and amortization. The Company's Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to EBITDA reported by other companies.
 
The Company provides this information as a supplement to GAAP information to assist itself and investors in understanding the impact of various items on its financial statements, some of which are recurring or involve cash payments. The Company uses this information in its analysis of the performance of its business excluding items that it does not consider as relevant in the performance of its hospitals in continuing operations. In addition, from time to time we use this measure to define certain performance targets under our compensation programs. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure of liquidity, but is a measure of operating performance that management uses in its business as an alternative to net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders. Because Adjusted EBITDA excludes many items that are included in our financial statements, it does not provide a complete measure of our operating performance. Accordingly, investors are encouraged to use GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's financial performance.
 
The reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Tenet Healthcare Corporation common shareholders, the most comparable GAAP term, to Adjusted EBITDA, is set forth in the first table below for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
(a)
              
Uses tax rate of 39 percent


