FILE:THC/THC-8K-20121001201008.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01
                                            
Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On October 1, 2012, Tenet Healthcare Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it had commenced a tender offer to purchase for cash on the terms set forth in an offer to purchase and related letter of transmittal, dated October 1, 2012, any and all of its outstanding 7.375% senior notes due 2013.  The Company refers investors participating in the tender offer to the tender offer documents for the complete terms of the tender offer. A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 8.01
                                            
Other Events.
 
Announcement of Strategic and Financial Initiatives
 
The Company is undertaking a series of strategic and financial initiatives to accelerate growth and enhance shareholder value, including (i) near-term acquisitions, expected to total approximately $400 million, to enhance the Company's primary business lines, (ii) authorization of a program to repurchase up to an aggregate amount of $500 million of the Company's outstanding common stock, (iii) $800 million of new debt, as further described below, proceeds of which will reduce the outstanding balance on the Company's bank line, contribute to the funding of near-term acquisitions, retire $216 million of 7.375% debt that matures in February 2013, as discussed in Item 7.01 above, and other general corporate purposes, and (iv) a one-for-four reverse stock split of the Company's common stock, which shall commence trading on a split-adjusted basis on October 11, 2012.  A copy of the press release announcing the foregoing is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Offering of Senior Secured and Unsecured Notes
 
On October 1, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing that it had commenced a private offering of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes due 2020 and $300 million in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2020.  A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.3 and incorporated herein by reference. On October 1, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the pricing of its offering of senior secured notes due 2020 and senior unsecured notes due 2020. A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.4 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Acquisition of
InforMed Health Care Solutions
 
On October 1, 2012, Conifer Health Solutions, LLC, a subsidiary of the Company, issued a press release announcing it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire InforMed Health Care Solutions.  A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.5 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01
                                            
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
DALLAS
  Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) announced today that it commenced a tender offer to purchase for cash (the "Tender Offer") any and all of the $216 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of its 7.375% Senior Notes due 2013 (the "Notes").  The Tender Offer is being made pursuant to an Offer to Purchase dated as of October 1, 2012 (the "Offer to Purchase") and related letter of transmittal.  The Tender Offer will expire at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on October 29, 2012.
October 1, 2012
 
Holders of Notes that are validly tendered prior to the early tender time of 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on October 15, 2012 and accepted for purchase will receive total consideration of $1,019.67 per $1,000 principal amount of Notes validly tendered and accepted for purchase, which includes an early tender premium of $30 per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, the initial settlement date, which is expected to be October 16, 2012.
 
Notes tendered may only be withdrawn prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on October 15, 2012, unless extended, except in limited circumstances where additional withdrawal rights are required by law.
 
Holders of Notes that are validly tendered after the early tender time, but prior to the expiration of the Tender Offer, and accepted for purchase will receive the tender offer consideration of $989.67 per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, the final settlement date, which is expected to be October 30, 2012.  Holders of Notes tendered after the early tender time and accepted for purchase will not receive an early tender premium.  Consummation of the Tender Offer is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in the Offer to Purchase, including the financing condition described therein.  Tenet may amend, extend or terminate the Tender Offer in its sole discretion.
 
This news release is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell any Notes.  The Tender Offer is being made only pursuant to the Offer to Purchase and related letter of transmittal, copies of which will be delivered to holders of the Notes.  Persons with questions regarding the Tender Offer should contact one of the following dealer managers  Barclays Capital Inc. at (800) 438-3242 (toll free) or (212) 528-7581 (collect), BofA Merrill Lynch at (800) 292-0070 (toll free) or (980) 387-3907 (collect), Citigroup at (800) 558-3745 (toll free) or Wells Fargo Securities at (866) 309-6316 (toll free) or (704) 715-8341 (collect)  or the Information Agent, Global Bondholder Services Corporation, at (866) 540-1500 (toll free) or (212) 430-3774 (collect).
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, a leading health care services company, through its subsidiaries operates 49 hospitals, over 100 free-standing outpatient centers and Conifer Health Solutions, a leader in business process solutions for health care providers serving nearly 400 hospital and health care entities nationwide.  Tenet's hospitals and related health care facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities they serve.
 
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and periodic reports on Form 8-K. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
 

Exhibit 99.2
DALLAS  October 1, 2012 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE:THC) today announced a series of strategic and financial initiatives to accelerate growth and enhance shareholder value.  The plan includes:
 
                 
Near-term acquisitions, expected to total approximately $400 million, to enhance the Company's primary business lines, including acute care hospitals, outpatient facilities, and business process services.
                 
A new $500 million authorization to repurchase common stock in open market transactions.  The timing and amount of repurchase transactions will be based on an evaluation of market conditions, share price and other factors.
                 
$800 million of new debt. Proceeds will reduce the outstanding balance on the Company's bank line,  contribute to the funding of near-term acquisitions, retire $216 million of 7.375% debt that matures in February 2013 and other general corporate purposes.
                 
A reverse stock split in which one new THC share will be issued in exchange for every four existing shares. This share exchange will be effective October 11, 2012.
 
"We have attractive opportunities to accelerate the growth of our core businesses and position our balance sheet to enhance shareholder value," said Trevor Fetter, Tenet's president and chief executive officer. "Historic low interest rates and a strong acquisition pipeline across our three major business lines provide the compelling catalysts for these aggressive actions.  In addition, a substantial new authorization to repurchase our shares is designed to drive shareholder value.  Upon completion of this latest phase of our share repurchase program no later than the end of 2013, we will have invested $1.2 billion in share repurchases in a little over two years."
 
Fetter continued, "We are pleased with Conifer's continued growth and our announcement earlier today that it is acquiring InforMed Health Care Solutions, which further enhances Conifer's service offerings.  In addition, we are in exclusive discussions to acquire the Emanuel Medical Center in Turlock, California as was disclosed by Emanuel last week.  Our hospital, business process services, and outpatient acquisition pipelines are very active, with a total anticipated cash use of approximately $400 million in the near term.  The capital we are raising is intended to fund those acquisitions and pre-fund a February 2013 debt maturity in addition to providing financial flexibility for share repurchases and other opportunities.  In total, these actions demonstrate Tenet's commitment to implementing aggressive strategies to grow our business and optimize our capital structure to accelerate shareholder value creation."
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, a leading health care services company, through its subsidiaries operates 49 hospitals, over 100 free-standing outpatient centers and Conifer Health Solutions, a leader in business process solutions for health care providers that serves nearly 400 hospital and health care entities nationwide.  Tenet's hospitals and related health care facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities they serve.  For more information, please visit www.tenethealth.com.
 
This document contains "forward-looking statements"  that is, statements that relate to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "see," or "will." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain.  Particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include the factors disclosed under "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Risk Factors" in our Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, periodic reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements contained in this press release as a result of new information or future events or developments.

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
DALLAS
  Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) announced today that it is offering to sell $500 million aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes maturing in 2020 and $300 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes maturing in 2020 through a private placement.  The senior secured notes will be guaranteed by and secured by a pledge of the capital stock and other ownership interests of certain of Tenet's subsidiaries.  The proceeds from the offering will be used to purchase Tenet's 7.375% senior notes due 2013 in a tender offer.  Tenet will use any remaining net proceeds for repurchases of its outstanding senior notes through publicly or privately negotiated transactions, and for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of indebtedness and drawings under its senior secured revolving credit facility and strategic acquisitions.
October 1, 2012
 
The notes being offered have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or any state securities laws.  As a result, they may not be offered or sold in the United States or to any U.S. persons, except pursuant to an applicable exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Accordingly, the notes are being offered only to "qualified institutional buyers" under Rule 144A of the Securities Act or, outside the United States, to persons other than "U.S. persons" in compliance with Regulation S under the Securities Act.  A confidential offering memorandum for each of the senior secured notes and senior unsecured notes, dated today, will be made available to such eligible persons.  The offering is being conducted in accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the offering memorandums.
 
This news release is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of, these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, a leading health care services company, through its subsidiaries operates 49 hospitals, over 100 free-standing outpatient centers and Conifer Health Solutions, a leader in business process solutions for health care providers serving nearly 400 hospital and health care entities nationwide.  Tenet's hospitals and related health care facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities they serve.
 
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and periodic reports on Form 8-K. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
DALLAS
  Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE: THC) announced today the pricing of its previously announced private offering of senior secured notes maturing in 2020 and senior unsecured notes maturing in 2020.  A total of $500 million aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes, which will bear interest at a rate of 4.75% per annum, and $300 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, which will bear interest at a rate of 6.75% per annum, will be issued.  The senior secured notes will rank senior to Tenet's existing and future subordinated indebtedness, be effectively senior to Tenet's existing and future unsecured indebtedness and other liabilities to the extent of the value of the collateral securing the senior secured notes or guarantees thereon, and will rank pari passu with Tenet's 6.25% senior secured notes due 2018, which were issued in November 2011 and April 2012, 10% senior secured notes due 2018, which were issued in March 2009, and 8.875% senior secured notes due 2019, which were issued in June 2009, and similarly will be guaranteed by and secured by a pledge of the capital stock and other ownership interests of certain of Tenet's subsidiaries, and will be subordinated to Tenet's obligations under its senior secured revolving credit facility, and any of its subsidiaries' secured guarantees thereof, to the extent of the value of the collateral securing borrowings under such facility.  The senior unsecured notes will be senior unsecured obligations of Tenet that will rank equally with Tenet's other existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness, will rank senior to Tenet's existing and future subordinated indebtedness and will be effectively subordinated to any existing and future secured indebtedness of Tenet to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such secured indebtedness.  The proceeds from the offering will be used to purchase Tenet's 7.375% senior notes due 2013 in a tender offer.  Tenet will use any remaining net proceeds for purchases of its outstanding senior notes through public or privately negotiated transactions, and for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of indebtedness and drawings under its senior secured revolving credit facility and strategic acquisitions.  The offering of both the senior secured notes and senior unsecured notes is expected to close on October 16, 2012, subject to customary closing conditions.
October 1, 2012
 
The notes being offered have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or any state securities laws.  As a result, they may not be offered or sold in the United States or to any U.S. persons, except pursuant to an applicable exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Accordingly, the notes are being offered only to "qualified institutional buyers" under Rule 144A of the Securities Act or, outside the United States, to persons other than "U.S. persons" in compliance with Regulation S under the Securities Act.  A confidential offering memorandum for each of the senior secured notes and senior unsecured notes, dated today, has been made available to such eligible persons.  The offering is being conducted in accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the offering memorandums.
 
This news release is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of, these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.
 
Tenet Healthcare Corporation, a leading health care services company, through its subsidiaries operates 49 hospitals, over 100 free-standing outpatient centers and Conifer Health Solutions, a leader in business process solutions for health care providers serving nearly 400 hospital and health care entities nationwide.  Tenet's hospitals and related health care facilities are committed to providing high quality care to patients in the communities they serve.
 
 
Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and periodic reports on Form 8-K. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.

Exhibit 99.5
 
 
News Release
FRISCO, Texas  Oct. 1, 2012 Conifer Health Solutions, LLC, a subsidiary ofTenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE:THC) and a leader in business process management solutions for healthcare providers, has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire InforMed Health Care Solutions located in Annapolis, Md.  InforMed is an information management and services company that uses cutting edge technology and powerful, proprietary data analysis tools to help healthcare providers, self-insured employers and payers lower costs, while improving care for their patients.
 
InforMed's business includes 230 clients located in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest, more than 300 employees, extensive healthcare data and proprietary technology.  The acquisition will supplement Conifer Health's existing suite of business process management solutions by providing additional population health management capabilities, expanding Conifer's service offerings and accelerating their time to market.
 
"We are very excited to be adding such tremendous population health management resources to our existing Cap Management Systems group capabilities at Conifer Health," said , president and chief executive officer of Conifer Health Solutions. "Conifer already manages 650,000 lives through clinical integration consulting, financial risk management and population health management services. This acquisition greatly expands our geographic footprint and accelerates our technological advancement of service offerings that we can take to market. We'll be bringing in great talent from InforMed along with its exceptional tools and technology to supplement those services and enable us to find even better ways to lower healthcare costs. Once fully integrated, we expect InforMed to contribute more than $50 million in incremental annual revenues to Conifer."
Stephen Mooney
 
InforMed President and Chief Executive Officer Mitchell Davis stated he believes the two companies are a perfect fit because of their complementary strengths and areas of expertise. "Conifer's Cap Management and InforMed are both committed to improving patient outcomes through the use of extensive data and proprietary technology. We're both already making a difference in the quality of healthcare, and the synergy from combining these two companies will create a much stronger organization," Davis said.
 
Davis added that for every dollar clients spend on InforMed medical management services, they typically reap between three and five dollars in savings. InforMed currently has over 2.5 million members in its data warehouse, more than one million members utilizing its medical management services and provides third-party administration services.
 
About InforMed
InforMed is a URAC-accredited organization, dedicated to the proposition that lowering healthcare costs and improving care are not mutually exclusive objectives. The key is enlightened use of information. By collecting a vast amount of data from a multitude of healthcare sources, creating InforMed's secure Global Healthcare Datacenter, and developing an Information Management System that makes the data both accessible and useful, we have built a foundation for a that support in their efforts to both provide great care and control costs, as well as individuals in their quest for good health. InforMed has been serving clients nationally from its home in Annapolis, Maryland since 1992. For more information, visit www.InforMed-LLC.com.
variety of services
healthcare providers and payers
 
About Conifer Health
Conifer Health Solutions is a healthcare business process management services provider working to improve operational performance for more than 390 hospitals and healthcare entities so they can better serve their communities, communicate effectively with patients, and support patient financial administration. We have a passion for maximizing financial performance, while at the same time improving the patient experience.
 
We provide comprehensive operational management for revenue cycle functions including patient access, revenue integrity, and patient financial services. We also offer patient communications solutions to optimize communication between providers and patients, including patient education, outreach, scheduling, medical necessity screening and HCAHPS (Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Provider and Systems Survey) reporting. In addition to revenue cycle management and patient communications, our service offerings have expanded to support value-based performance through dynamic payment arrangements, ACO (Accountable Care Organization) management, population health management, and clinical integration solutions.
 
Conifer Health can now offer healthcare clients solutions that address the entire continuum of health administration. For more information, call 1-877-CONIFER or visit www.coniferhealth.com.
Conifer Health Solutions Media Contact
John Hoffmann, (972) 335-6104, john.hoffmann@coniferhealth.com
 
Conifer Health Solutions, LLC, is a subsidiary of Tenet Healthcare Corporation (NYSE:THC). Some of the statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on our current expectations and could be affected by numerous factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties, certain of which are discussed in Tenet's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and
 
periodic reports on Form 8-K. Do not rely on any forward-looking statement, as we cannot predict or control many of the factors that ultimately may affect our ability to achieve the results estimated. We make no promise to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.


