FILE:PWR/PWR-8K-20081027163023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
     The Board of Directors of Quanta Services, Inc. (the "Company") has appointed James F. O'Neil III as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, effective October 27, 2008. Mr. O'Neil will continue to report directly to John R. Colson, the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company. Mr. O'Neil will be responsible for overseeing the Company's operations and strategic initiatives across the electric power, natural gas, renewable energy, telecommunications, broadband cable and wireless industries.
     Mr. O'Neil, age 50, has been with the Company for over 9 years, most recently serving as Senior Vice President of Operations Integration and Audit since December 2002.
     On October 27, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Mr. O'Neil as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 27, 2008
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
08-15
Quanta Services, Inc. (NYSE:PWR) announces that effective today James F. O'Neil, age 50, will serve as president and chief operating officer of the company. In this new position, O'Neil will oversee Quanta's operations and strategic initiatives across the electric power, natural gas, renewable energy, telecommunications, broadband cable and wireless industries.
HOUSTON  Oct. 27, 2008 
O'Neil, who most recently served as a senior vice president, joined Quanta in 1999. Throughout his tenure, he has had responsibility for various initiatives including: the company's renewable energy strategy; commercial and industrial operations; internal audit; and merger and acquisition initiatives, including oversight of the acquisition and integration of InfraSource, Inc., the company's largest acquisition. O'Neil will report directly to John R. Colson, chairman and CEO of Quanta.
"Jim will lead the existing operations group with continued emphasis on sustained growth in earnings, margin enhancement and safety," Colson stated. "He will work closely with the presidents of our electric power, natural gas, telecommunications and cable TV operations to ensure Quanta's continued leadership position in the industries we serve. Jim's leadership and expertise will help the company respond to the increased demand for our services in the renewable energy industry."
 
Prior to joining Quanta Services, O'Neil spent 19 years with the Haliburton Company where he held various positions that encompassed responsibility for the Gulf of Mexico operations, deepwater development and health, safety, and the environment.
O'Neil received a B.S. degree in civil engineering from Tulane University in New Orleans in 1980.
Quanta Services is a leading specialized contracting services company, delivering infrastructure network solutions for the electric power, natural gas, telecommunications and cable television industries. The company's comprehensive services include designing, installing, repairing and maintaining network infrastructure nationwide. Additionally, Quanta provides point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications infrastructure and leasing in select markets and offers related design, procurement, construction and maintenance services. With operations throughout North America, Quanta has the manpower, resources and expertise to complete projects that are local, regional, national or international in scope.


