FILE:PWR/PWR-8K-20080229090346.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
     On February 29, 2008, Quanta issued a press release announcing that certain of its executive officers will submit Form 4 filings to report the withholding of shares pursuant to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as an exhibit.
     The information furnished in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits, shall not be deemed "filed" with the SEC and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 29, 2008
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE 08-05
 Quanta Services, Inc. (NYSE: PWR) announced today that certain of its executive officers will submit Form 4 filings pursuant to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
HOUSTON  Feb. 29, 2008
Under Quanta's 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, certain of its employees, including certain executive officers, previously received restricted stock awards, a portion of which vested on February 28, 2008. These awards for Quanta's executive officers were previously reported on Form 4 filings. Pursuant to the Plan, employees may elect to satisfy their tax withholding obligations upon vesting by having Quanta make the tax payments and withhold a number of vested s hares having a value on the date of vesting equal to the employee's tax withholding obligation. As a result of employee elections, Quanta withheld shares of stock from certain of its executive officers to satisfy their tax obligations. The Form 4 filings will report as "dispositions" the number of shares withheld by Quanta and will reflect that the dispositions are exempt transactions in accordance with Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act.
Quanta Services is a leading specialized contracting services company, delivering infrastructure network solutions for the electric power, natural gas, telecommunications and cable television industries. The company's comprehensive services include engineering, designing, installing, repairing and maintaining network infrastructure nationwide. With operations in all 50 states and Canada, Quanta has the manpower, resources and expertise to complete projects that are local, regional, national or international in scope.


