FILE:PWR/PWR-8K-20110307161744.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
     On March 3, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Quanta Services, Inc. ("Quanta") adopted the Quanta Services, Inc. 2011 Incentive Bonus Plan (the "Incentive Plan"). Under the Incentive Plan, Quanta's corporate and operating unit executive officers and/or key management employees are eligible to receive annual bonus awards payable in cash and restricted stock. All restricted stock awards earned under the Incentive Plan, if any, will be made pursuant to the Quanta Services, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan or other plans that may be approved from time to time by the Board of Directors or by stockholders as required. Certain of the awards under the Incentive Plan are based on the achievement of certain performance goals. For 2011, performance goals for operating unit executives are based on achievement of operating income targets, modified return on asset targets, individual strategic goals and various safety statistics at the operating unit level. Performance goals under the Incentive Plan for corporate management employees are based on achievement of operating income targets, return on equity targets and individual strategic goals in 2011. The Incentive Plan also provides for additional discretionary awards in cash and/or restricted stock for both corporate and operating unit executive officers and key management employees. The Compensation Committee, based on recommendations of management, establishes specific target amounts for the participants under the Incentive Plan. In addition, all future awards under the Incentive Plan are subject to approval by the Compensation Committee prior to the date any such awards are granted.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


