FILE:PWR/PWR-8K-20121207080302.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On December 6, 2012, pursuant to the authority granted to the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Quanta Services Inc. (the "Company") by the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, the Board approved an increase in the size of the Board from eleven directors to twelve directors and, upon the recommendation of the Governance and Nominating Committee, elected Margaret B. Shannon to serve as a director, filling the new position. There are no arrangements or understandings between Ms. Shannon and any other person pursuant to which she was elected as a director. There are no transactions in which Ms. Shannon has an interest requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. Ms. Shannon will serve as a director until the Company's next annual meeting of stockholders or until her earlier resignation or removal or when a successor is duly elected and qualified. Ms. Shannon has not yet been appointed to any Board committees. Information regarding the compensation of non-employee directors of the Company is set forth in the Company's definitive proxy statement for the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders filed with the SEC on April 10, 2012.
 
On December 6, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the election of Ms. Shannon as a director of the Company. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The information in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
12-27
 
Quanta Services, Inc. (NYSE: PWR) today announced the appointment of Margaret B. Shannon to the company's board of directors. Shannon brings vast experience from the energy industry as well as in corporate governance.
HOUSTON, Dec. 7, 2012 
"Margaret is a strategic addition to an already well-balanced and dynamic board," said John R. Colson, executive chairman of Quanta Services, Inc. "She is highly regarded in the energy industry and will provide valuable insight as Quanta sharpens its focus on emerging opportunities in the energy market."
Shannon, 63, brings more than three decades of experience in corporate governance, public company requirements and the energy industry. She served as vice president and general counsel of BJ Services Company, an international oilfield services company, from 1994 to 2010, when it was acquired by Baker Hughes Incorporated. Prior to 1994, she was a partner with the law firm of Andrews Kurth LLP.
Shannon serves on the board of directors of Matador Resources Company (NYSE: MTDR), an exploration and production company. In addition, she is active in several not-for-profit organizations in Houston.
Shannon received her Juris Doctorate from Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law in 1976 and her Bachelor of Arts degree from Baylor University in 1971.
cum laude
ABOUT QUANTA SERVICES
Quanta Services is a leading specialized contracting services company, delivering infrastructure solutions for the electric power and natural gas and pipeline industries in North American and in certain international markets. Quanta's comprehensive services include designing, installing, repairing and maintaining network infrastructure. Additionally, Quanta licenses point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications infrastructure in certain markets and offers related design, procurement, construction and maintenance services. With operations throughout North America and in certain international markets, Quanta has the manpower, resources and expertise to complete projects that are local, regional, national or international in scope.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release (and oral statements regarding the subject matter of this release) contains forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the "safe harbor" from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, market leadership, emerging opportunities, and Quanta's strategic growth initiatives, as well as statements reflecting expectations, intentions, assumptions or beliefs about future events, and other statements that do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Although Quanta's management believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. These statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions and by a variety of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict or beyond our control, including, among others, the effects of industry, economic or political conditions outside of the control of Quanta; trends and growth opportunities in relevant markets; the potential to incur losses with respect to our operations; the ability to generate internal growth; the ability to successfully identify and complete acquisitions; the ability to effectively compete for new projects and market share; risks associated with operating in international markets; potential liabilities associated with multiemployer pension plans; unexpected costs or liabilities that may arise from lawsuits or indemnity claims related to the services Quanta performs; liabilities for claims that are self-insured; and the ability to capitalize on business opportunities and other factors affecting Quanta's business generally, including risks detailed in Quanta's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and any other documents of Quanta filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Should one or more of these risks materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of this date. Quanta does not undertake and expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For a discussion of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, investors are urged to refer to Quanta's documents filed with the SEC that are available through the company's website at or through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval System (EDGAR) at .
www.quantaservices.com
www.sec.gov


