FILE:PWR/PWR-8K-20120402061638.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) On March 29, 2012, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Quanta Services Inc. (the "Company") approved the transition of James H. Haddox from Chief Financial Officer of the Company to Executive Vice President, and the appointment of Derrick A. Jensen as Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective May 17, 2012 following the upcoming annual meeting of stockholders. As of the adjournment of such annual meeting, Mr. Haddox will cease to serve as Chief Financial Officer, but will continue as Executive Vice President and an employee of the Company.
In connection with this transition, the Company entered into a new employment agreement with Mr. Haddox, which agreement is described below, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report, and incorporated herein by reference.
(c) On May 17, 2012, Mr. Jensen, age 41, will become Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Mr. Jensen will also continue to serve as the Company's principal accounting officer. Mr. Jensen has served as the Company's Senior Vice President  Finance and Administration and Chief Accounting Officer since March 2011. He previously served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company from March 1999 to March 2011, and as Controller of the Company from December 1997 until March 2009. Mr. Jensen became a Certified Public Accountant in the State of Texas in 1997.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Jensen and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as an officer. There is no family relationship between Mr. Jensen and any director, executive officer, or person nominated or chosen by the Company to become a director or executive officer. There are no transactions in which Mr. Jensen has an interest requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
In connection with this appointment, the Company entered into a new employment agreement with Mr. Jensen, which agreement is described below, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this report, and incorporated herein by reference.
(e) The Company entered into new Employment Agreements dated March 29, 2012 (each, an "Agreement") with each of Messrs. Haddox and Jensen. These Agreements will be effective as of May 17, 2012, following the upcoming annual meeting of stockholders, and will supersede existing employment agreements between the Company and Messrs. Haddox and Jensen.
Employment Agreements.
The Agreement with Mr. Haddox has a term beginning May 17, 2012 and continuing through March 31, 2014, with the period from the effective date through March 31, 2013 being the "Initial Term" and the period from April 1, 2013 through March 31, 2014 being the "Transition Term." At the expiration of the Transition Term and at each annual anniversary thereafter, the term of the Agreement with Mr. Haddox will renew automatically for a one-year term unless the Company or the executive provides at least ninety days prior written notice of non-renewal. Pursuant to his Agreement, Mr. Haddox will receive an annual base salary of $540,193 during the Initial Term, an annual base salary of $270,096 during the Transition Term, and an annual base salary to be determined by the Board during any renewal term. All outstanding awards of restricted stock of the Company held by Mr. Haddox will fully vest as of the earlier of (i) March 31, 2014, provided Mr. Haddox remains employed by the Company as of such date, or (ii) termination of employment without "cause" (as defined in the Agreement).
The Agreement with Mr. Jensen has an initial term of two years that will subsequently renew automatically for a one-year term unless the Company or the executive provides at least six months prior written notice of non-renewal. Mr. Jensen will receive pursuant to his Agreement an annual base salary of $420,000, subject to review by the Board on no less than an annual basis. In connection with Mr. Jensen's promotion, the Compensation Committee of the Board authorized a restricted stock award to be granted to Mr. Jensen on May 17, 2012, consisting of the number of shares of the Company's common stock having a fair market value as of the close of business on such date equal to $200,000.
Each Agreement generally terminates upon the executive's termination of employment due to (i) death, (ii) disability, (iii) "cause" (as defined in the Agreement), (iv) "good reason" following a "change in control" (each as defined in the Agreement), or (v) circumstances without cause. If the executive's employment is terminated due to disability, the executive will be entitled to a lump-sum payment equal to one year of his annual base salary, subject to execution of a waiver and release agreement. If the executive's employment is terminated without cause (other than within 12 months following a change in control), the executive will be entitled to a lump-sum payment equal to two years of his annual base salary, subject to execution of a waiver and release agreement. If within 12 months following a change in control (as defined in the Agreement), the executive terminates his employment for good reason or his employment is terminated other than for cause, the executive will be entitled to severance benefits equal to (i) a lump-sum payment equal to three times the sum of (x) his annual base salary at the rate then in effect and (y) the higher of (1) the highest annual cash bonus paid (or earned, if not yet paid) to him under the Company's annual incentive plan for the past three fiscal years or (2) his target annual cash bonus payable for the current fiscal year (or if such target bonus has not yet been determined, for the most recently completed fiscal year), and (ii) continued medical, dental and vision benefits for the executive and his dependents for three years after termination or, if sooner, until the executive receives such benefits from a subsequent employer. No severance is payable upon the termination of employment due to death, termination with cause, or a voluntary termination by the executive without good reason.
Each Agreement contains customary non-competition covenants restricting the ability of the executive to compete with the Company during the term of his employment and for a period of two years thereafter, prohibiting solicitation of customers and employees for the same period, and prohibiting him from disclosing confidential information and trade secrets. However, if the Company notifies the executive that the Company will not renew the Agreement and the executive remains employed through the end of the employment term, the covenants restricting competition and solicitation of customers and employees apply for a period of one year following the notice of non-renewal.
The foregoing description of the Agreements is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text thereof, copies of which are filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 to this report.
 
On April 2, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing that effective May 17, 2012, James H. Haddox will assume the role of Executive Vice President and Derrick A. Jensen will become Chief Financial Officer. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K and Securities and Exchange Commission Release No. 33-8176, the information contained in the press release identified above shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Employment Agreement (the "") is entered into between Quanta Services, Inc. ("") and James H. Haddox ("") on this 29
Agreement
Quanta
Employee
th
day of March, 2012, but effective as of May 17, 2012 (the "").
Effective Date
As of the date of this Agreement, the Employer Group (as defined below) is engaged primarily in the business of specialty contracting for customers in the electric power, natural gas and oil pipeline, renewable energies and telecommunications industries, as well as for transportation, commercial and industrial customers. As such, the Employer Group has developed and continues to develop and use certain trade secrets and other Proprietary and Confidential Information, as hereinafter defined. The Employer Group has spent a substantial amount of time, effort and money, and will continue to do so in the future, to develop or acquire such Proprietary and Confidential Information and promote and increase its good will. Employer (as defined below) and Employee acknowledge and agree that Proprietary and Confidential Information is an asset of particular and immeasurable value to the Employer Group.
Pursuant to this Agreement, Employee shall be employed by Employer in a confidential and fiduciary relationship and such Proprietary and Confidential Information will necessarily be provided to, communicated to, or acquired by Employee by virtue of his employment with Employer.
Based upon the above, Employer desires to retain the services of Employee on its own behalf, as well as on the behalf of its subsidiaries and affiliated companies and, in so doing, protect its Proprietary and Confidential Information subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein.
A. For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean Quanta or any other affiliated entity that is deemed to be the employer of Employee, and "" shall mean Quanta and its predecessors, designees, successors, and past, present and future operating companies, divisions, subsidiaries and/or affiliates.
Employer
Employer Group
B. As used in this Agreement, "" means any and all non-public information or data in any form or medium, tangible or intangible, which has commercial value and which the Employer Group possesses or to which the Employer Group has rights. Proprietary and Confidential Information includes, by way of example and without limitation, information concerning the Employer Group's specific manner of doing business, including, but not limited to, the processes, methods or techniques utilized by the Employer Group, the Employer Group's customers, marketing strategies and plans, pricing information, sources of supply and material specifications, the Employer Group's computer programs, system documentation, special hardware, related software development, and the Employer Group's business models, manuals, formulations, equipment, compositions, configurations, know-how, ideas, improvements and inventions.
Proprietary and Confidential Information
Proprietary and Confidential Information also includes information developed by Employee during his course of employment with Employer or otherwise relating to Company-Related Inventions and Developments, as hereinafter defined, as well as other information to which he may be given access to in connection with his employment.
C. As used in this Agreement, "" means any and all inventions, developments, creative works and useful ideas of any description whatsoever, whether or not patentable. Inventions and Developments include, by way of example and without limitation, discoveries and improvements that consist of or relate to any form of Proprietary and Confidential Information.
Inventions and Developments
D. As used in this Agreement, "" means all Inventions and Developments that: (a) relate at the time of conception or development to the actual business of the Employer Group or to its actual research and development or to business or research and development that is the subject of active planning at the time; (b) result from or relate to any work performed for Employer, whether or not during normal business hours; (c) are developed on Employer's time; or (d) are developed through the use of the Employer Group's Proprietary and Confidential Information, equipment, software, or other facilities and resources.
Company-Related Inventions and Developments
E. For purposes of this Agreement, "" or "," when used in relation to Inventions and Developments, includes any one or any combination of: (a) conception; (b) reduction to practice; or (c) development; and is without regard to whether Employee is a sole or joint inventor.
make
made
F. For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean:
Change in Control
1. Any person or entity, or more than one person or entity acting as a group, other than a member of the Employer Group or an employee benefit plan of the Employer Group, acquires directly or indirectly Beneficial Ownership (as defined in Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) of any Voting Security of Quanta and immediately after such acquisition such person, entity or group is, directly or indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of Voting Securities representing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total fair market value or total voting power of all of the then-outstanding Voting Securities of Quanta; or
2. Any person or entity, or more than one person or entity acting as a group, other than a member of the Employer Group or an employee benefit plan of the Employer Group, acquires directly or indirectly, or has acquired during the preceding twelve (12) months, Beneficial Ownership (as defined in Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) of any Voting Security of Quanta and immediately after such acquisition such person, entity or group is, directly or indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of Voting Securities representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the total voting power of all of the then-outstanding Voting Securities of Quanta; or
3. Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors of Quanta (the ""), and any new director whose election by the Board or nomination for election by Quanta's stockholders was approved by a vote of a majority of the directors then still in office who were directors as of the date hereof or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the members of the Board within a 12-month period; or
Board
 
4. Any person or entity, or more than one person or entity acting as a group, other than a member of the Employer Group or an employee benefit plan of the Employer Group, acquires directly or indirectly, or has acquired during the preceding 12-months, forty percent (40%) or more of the total gross fair market value of assets of the Employer Group.
G. For purposes of this Agreement, "" means common stock or other capital stock, including preferred stock, of the applicable entity entitled generally to vote in the election of directors and preferred stock and other equity securities (not including options, warrants or similar rights) convertible into securities entitled generally to vote in the election of directors (whether or not then convertible).
Voting Security
A. . Employee is hereby employed by Employer as Executive Vice President. Employee shall have the primary responsibilities, duties and authority described in hereto, as the same may be modified from time to time by the Board in its discretion in a manner consistent with Employee's position. Employee shall devote his reasonable business time, attention and effort to the performance of this Agreement and to his duties as described herein.
Position and Duties
Exhibit A
1. Employee shall faithfully adhere to, execute and fulfill the duties described in hereto, as in effect from time to time.
Exhibit A
2. Employee agrees to devote reasonable attention and time to the business and affairs of Employer and, to the extent necessary, to discharge the responsibilities assigned to Employee hereunder, to use Employee's reasonable best efforts to perform faithfully and efficiently such responsibilities.
3. Employee shall not, during the term of his employment, be engaged in any other business activity pursued for gain, profit or other pecuniary advantage if such activity interferes with Employee's duties and responsibilities to Employer. The foregoing limitations shall not be construed as prohibiting Employee from serving on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, delivering lectures or fulfilling speaking engagements, teaching at educational institutions, or making personal investments, so long as such activities do not significantly interfere with the performance of Employee's responsibilities to Employer as set forth in this Agreement.
4. In the performance of his duties, Employee shall use his best efforts to adhere to the legal requirements codified in statutes, ordinances and governmental regulations applicable to Employer.
B. The original term of this Agreement shall begin on the Effective Date and shall continue through March 31, 2014, unless terminated sooner pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, with the period from the Effective Date through March 31, 2013 being the
Term.
 
"", the period from April 1, 2013 through March 31, 2014 being the "" and the period from the Effective Date through March 31, 2014 being the "". At the expiration of the Transition Term, unless terminated sooner pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, and each annual anniversary thereafter, this Agreement will renew automatically for an additional one (1) year period (the "") unless either party notifies the other party in writing of its or his intention not to renew this Agreement (the "") not less than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the Transition Term or of any Renewal Term (the Initial Term, the Transition Term, the Original Term and any Renewal Term are referred to collectively as the "").
Initial Term
Transition Term
Original Term
Renewal Term
Renewal Termination Notice
Term
1. . This Agreement (and all of Employee's rights and Employer's obligations hereunder) shall terminate as of the date of Employee's death.
Termination upon Death
2. . If Employee becomes Disabled as defined herein, Employer may, by written notice to Employee, terminate this Agreement and Employee's employment hereunder. For purposes of this Agreement, "" or "" means, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board (the ""), that (i) Employee is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of a physical or mental impairment that is expected to result in death or last twelve (12) months or more, or Employee receives replacement income for three (3) months or more due to such physical or mental impairment or (ii) such other definition that complies with the definition of disability under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "") and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
Termination upon Disability
Disabled
Disability
Committee
Code
3. . Employer may terminate this Agreement and Employee's employment hereunder for Cause by providing written notice to Employee of its intention to do so. For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean:
Termination for Cause
Cause
a. Employee's gross negligence in the performance of, intentional nonperformance of, or inattention to his material duties and responsibilities hereunder, any of which continue for ten (10) business days after receipt of written notice of need to cure the same;
b. Employee's willful dishonesty, fraud or material misconduct with respect to the business or affairs of Employer;
c. the material violation by Employee of any of Employer's policies or procedures, which violation is not cured by Employee within ten (10) business days after Employee has been given written notice thereof;
d. a conviction of, a plea of nolo contendere, a guilty plea, or confession by Employee to, an act of fraud, misappropriation or embezzlement or any crime punishable as a felony or any other crime that involves moral turpitude;
e. Employee's use of illegal substances or habitual drunkenness; or
f. the material breach by Employee of this Agreement if Employee does not cure such breach within ten (10) business days after Employee has been given written notice thereof.
 
4. . Employee may terminate this Agreement and his employment hereunder for Good Reason during the twelve (12) months following a Change in Control by providing written notice to Employer of his intention to do so. For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean:
Termination for Good Reason
Good Reason
a. any material breach of this Agreement by Employer, including any requirement that Employee be based at any office or location that results in a violation of Section III.E of this Agreement;
b. any failure by Employer to comply with any of the provisions of Section IV of this Agreement (excluding for this purpose an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith);
c. any failure by Employer to continue in effect any cash or stock-based incentive or bonus plan, retirement plan, welfare benefit plan or other compensation, retirement or benefit plan and policy, unless the aggregate value (as computed by an independent employee benefits consultant selected by Employer and reasonably acceptable to Employee or Employee's legal representative) of all such compensation, retirement or benefit plans and policies provided to Employee is not materially less than their aggregate value as in effect at any time during the one hundred twenty (120) day period immediately preceding a Change in Control or, if more favorable to Employee, those provided generally at any time after the Change in Control to other peer employees of Employer and its affiliated companies;
d. Employee's receipt from Employer of a Renewal Termination Notice as provided in Section III.B; and
e. in the event of a pending Change in Control, Employer and Employee have not received written notice at least five (5) business days prior to the anticipated closing date of the transaction giving rise to the Change in Control from the successor to all or a substantial portion of the Employer Group's business and/or assets that such successor is willing as of the closing to assume and agree to perform Employer's obligations under this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that Employer is hereby required to perform.
Employee must provide written notice to Employer of the existence of the condition(s) described in Section III.B.4.a through Section III.B.4.c above within 90 days of Employee's discovery of the existence of the condition(s). Employer shall have 30 days after such notice is given during which to remedy the condition(s), and such occurrence shall not be deemed to constitute Good Reason if such event or circumstance has been fully corrected by Employer within the 30 day cure period and Employee has been reasonably compensated for monetary losses or damages resulting therefrom.
C. . Any termination by Employer for Cause or Disability or by Employee for Good Reason shall be communicated by a Notice of Termination provided to the other party pursuant to the provisions of Section IX.C of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, "" means a written notice that: (1) indicates the specific termination provision or provisions as set forth in this Agreement relied upon by either Employer or Employee; (2) to the extent applicable, sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and
Notice of Termination
Notice of Termination
 
circumstances claimed to provide the basis for termination under the provision or provisions of this Agreement relied upon by either Employer or Employee; and (3) if the Date of Termination (as defined below) is other than the date of receipt of such Notice of Termination, specifies the termination date. The failure by either Employer or Employee to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance that contributes to a showing of Cause or Good Reason shall not waive any right of Employer or Employee or preclude Employer or Employee from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing Employer's or Employee's rights or obligations under this Agreement.
D. . According to this Agreement, "" shall mean: (1) if Employee's employment is terminated for Cause or Disability, or by Employee for Good Reason, the date of receipt of the Notice of Termination or any later date specified therein or as required under this Agreement; (2) if Employee's employment is terminated by Employer other than for Cause or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date on which Employer notifies Employee of such termination; (3) if Employee's employment is terminated by reason of death, the Date of Termination shall be the date of the death of Employee; or (4) if Employee voluntarily terminates his employment, the Date of Termination shall be the date on which Employee and Employer shall agree to be the Date of Termination.
Date of Termination
Date of Termination
E. . Employee shall not be required to relocate from Employee's present residence to another geographic location in order to carry out Employee's duties and responsibilities under this Agreement, other than normal business travel consistent with Employee's duties, responsibilities and position.
Place of Performance
A. . Employer agrees to compensate and pay Employee, or to cause Employee to be compensated and paid, on a regular basis in accordance with Employer's standard payroll procedures but not less frequently than monthly, (1) an annual base salary during the Initial Term of $540,193, (2) an annual base salary of $270,096 during the Transition Term, and (3) an annual base salary determined by the Board during any Renewal Term, if any.
Annual Base Salary
B. . During calendar year 2012, Employee shall participate in Employer's annual and supplemental incentive bonus plans at a target level no less than that in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date. During calendar year 2013, Employee shall participate in Employer's (1) annual incentive bonus plan at a target percentage of Employee's 2013 year-end annual base salary no less than that in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date, and (2) supplemental incentive bonus plan at a target level no less than one-half of the target level in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date. After the 2013 calendar year, Employee may participate in Employer's annual and supplemental incentive bonus plans and other current and future incentive bonus plans as determined by the Board or a duly constituted committee thereof.
Bonus
C. Employee shall be entitled to participate in all savings and retirement plans, practices, policies and programs generally applicable to other peer employees of Employer.
Savings and Retirement Plans.
 
D. . All outstanding awards of restricted stock of Quanta held by Employee shall fully vest as of the first to occur of (i) Employee's involuntary termination of employment by Employer for other than for Cause prior to the expiration of the Original Term or (ii) March 31, 2014, provided that Employee remains employed by Employer until March 31, 2014.
Restricted Stock Awards
E. . Employee and Employee's dependents shall receive coverage under the welfare benefit plans, practices, policies and programs provided by Employer including, but not limited to, medical, prescription, dental, disability, employee life, group life, accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs, generally applicable to other peer employees of Employer, the terms and conditions of which shall be no less favorable than those available to other similarly situated officers of Employer.
Welfare Benefit Plans
F. . Employer shall reimburse Employee or cause Employee to be promptly reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by Employee in furtherance of the business and affairs of the Employer Group including, but not limited to, all travel expenses and living expenses while away from home on business or at the request of Employer or the Board. Such reimbursement shall be effected as soon as reasonably practicable after such expenditures are made, against presentation of signed, itemized expense reports in accordance with the travel and business expense reimbursement policies of Employer.
Reimbursement of Expenses
G. . As set forth below, the following obligations are imposed upon Employer upon termination of this Agreement; provided, however, that to be entitled to such severance benefits, Employee will be required to execute, and not revoke, a Confidential Severance Agreement and Release provided by Employer as more fully described in Section IV.J below.
Severance Benefits upon Termination
1. . If Employee's employment is terminated due to his death, Employee shall not be entitled to any severance benefits under the terms of this Agreement.
Death
2. . If Employee's employment is terminated due to his Disability, Employee shall be entitled to severance benefits equal to one (1) year of Employee's annual base salary, with annual base salary in an amount determined as if Employee had continued employment for such period. Subject to Employee's compliance with the requirements of Section IV.J below, such severance benefits shall be paid to Employee in a lump-sum payment within sixty (60) days of the Date of Termination.
Disability
3. . If Employee's employment is terminated for Cause as defined under this Agreement, Employee shall not be entitled to any severance benefits under the terms of this Agreement.
Cause
4. . If Employee's employment is terminated by Employer without Cause (other than within the twelve (12) months following a Change in Control), Employee shall be entitled to severance benefits equal to two (2) years of Employee's annual base salary, with annual base salary in an amount determined as if Employee had continued employment for such period. Subject to Employee's compliance with the requirements of Section IV.J below, such severance benefits shall be paid to Employee in a lump-sum payment within sixty (60) days of the Date of Termination. In the event that Employee is entitled to receive severance benefits under Section IV.H.1, Employee will not be entitled to receive severance benefits under this Section.
Without Cause
 
5. . If Employee resigns his employment, Employee shall not be entitled to any severance benefits under the terms of this Agreement unless Employee resigns his employment for Good Reason within the twelve (12) months following a Change in Control as described in Section IV.H.2 below.
Resignation by Employee
H. Severance Benefits upon Change in Control.
1. . In the event Employee is terminated without Cause by Employer within twelve (12) months following a Change in Control, Employee shall be entitled to the following:
Termination without Cause
a. a lump-sum payment, due on the Date of Termination, of a sum equal to three (3) times Employee's base salary at the rate then in effect; and
b. a lump-sum payment, due on the Date of Termination, of a sum equal to three (3) times the higher of (i) the highest annual cash bonus paid (or earned if not yet paid) to Employee for the three (3) fiscal years preceding Employee's termination under Employer's annual incentive bonus plan or a direct predecessor thereto or replacement thereof or (ii) Employee's target annual cash bonus payable, including any bonus or portion thereof which has been earned but deferred, under Employer's annual incentive bonus plan or a direct predecessor thereto or replacement thereof for the current fiscal year or, if such target bonus has not yet been determined, for the most recently completed fiscal year; and
c. for a period of three (3) years following Employee's termination continuation of medical, dental and vision benefit coverage for Employee and Employee's dependents at least equal to those that would have been provided to the same in accordance with the plans, programs, practices and policies described in Section IV.E of this Agreement if Employee's employment had not been terminated or, if more favorable to Employee, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peers of Employee; provided, however, that if Employee becomes reemployed with another employer and is eligible to receive medical, dental or vision benefits under another employer provided plan, the medical, dental and vision benefits described herein shall be secondary to those provided under such other plan during such applicable period of eligibility.
In the event that Employee is entitled to receive severance benefits under this Section V.H.1, Employee will not be entitled to receive severance benefits under Section IV.G.4.
2. . In the event Employee terminates his employment for Good Reason within twelve (12) months following a Change in Control, Employee shall be entitled to:
Termination by Employee with Good Reason
a. a lump-sum payment, due on the Date of Termination, of a sum equal to three (3) times Employee's base salary at the rate then in effect;
 
b. a lump-sum payment, due on the Date of Termination, of a sum equal to three (3) times the higher of (i) the highest annual cash bonus paid (or earned if not yet paid) to Employee for the three (3) fiscal years preceding Employee's termination under Employer's annual incentive bonus plan or a direct predecessor thereto or replacement thereof or (ii) Employee's target annual cash bonus payable, including any bonus or portion thereof which has been earned but deferred, under Employer's annual incentive bonus plan or a direct predecessor thereto or replacement thereof for the current fiscal year or, if such target bonus has not yet been determined, for the most recently completed fiscal year; and
c. for a period of three (3) years following Employee's termination continuation of medical, dental and vision benefit coverage for Employee and Employee's dependents at least equal to those that would have been provided to the same in accordance with the plans, programs, practices and policies described in Section IV.E of this Agreement if Employee's employment had not been terminated or, if more favorable to Employee, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peers of Employee; provided, however, that if Employee becomes reemployed with another employer and is eligible to receive medical, dental or vision benefits under another employer provided plan, the medical, dental and vision benefits described herein shall be secondary to those provided under such other plan during such applicable period of eligibility.
3. . Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event that it shall be determined (as herein after provided) that any payment or distribution by Employer or any of its affiliates to or for the benefit of Employee, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise pursuant to or by reason of any other agreement, policy, plan, program, or arrangement including, without limitation, any stock option, restricted stock, stock appreciation right or similar right, or the lapse or termination of any restriction on, or the vesting or exercisability of, any of the foregoing (individually and collectively, a ""), would be subject, but for the application of this Section IV.H.3 to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, or any successor provision thereto (hereinafter the ""), by reason of being considered "contingent on a change in ownership or control" of Employer, within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code, or any successor provision thereto, then:
Limitation on Severance Benefits
Payment
Excise Tax
a. if the After-Tax Payment Amount would be greater by reducing the amount of the Payment otherwise payable to Employee to the minimum extent necessary (but in no event less than zero) so that, after such reduction, no portion of the Payment would be subject to the Excise Tax, then the Payment shall be so reduced; and
b. if the After-Tax Payment Amount would be greater without the above-described reduction then there shall be no reduction in the Payment.
As used in this Section IV.H.3, "" means (i) the amount of the Payment, less (ii) the amount of federal income taxes payable with respect to the Payment calculated at the maximum marginal income tax rate for each year in which the Payment shall be paid to Employee (based upon the rate in effect for such year as set forth in the Code at the time of the Payment), less (iii) the amount of the Excise Tax, if any, imposed upon the Payment. For purposes of any reduction made under Section IV.H.3.a, the Payments that shall be reduced shall be those that provide Employee the best economic benefit, and to the extent any Payments are economically equivalent, each shall be reduced pro rata.
After-Tax Payment Amount
 
I. . The payments to be made under this Agreement are intended to be exempt from or compliant with Section 409A of the Code. Specifically, the severance payments and benefits under Section IV.G and Section IV.H hereof are intended to be exempt from Section 409A of the Code by compliance with the short-term deferral exemption as specified in 26 C.F.R. Section 1.409A-1(b)(4) and/or the separation pay exemption as specified in 26 C.F.R. Section 1.409A-1(b)(9) or are intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code including, but not limited to, being paid upon disability pursuant to 26 C.F.R. Section 1.409-3(i)(4), pursuant to change in control event pursuant to 26 C.F.R. Section 1.409A-3(i)(5) or pursuant to a fixed schedule or specified date pursuant to 26 C.F.R. Section 1.409A-3(a), and the provisions of this Agreement will be administered, interpreted and construed accordingly. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Employer makes no representation or warranty and shall have no liability to Employee or any other person if any provisions of this Agreement are determined to constitute deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code and do not satisfy an exemption from, or the conditions of, Section 409A of the Code.
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
For all purposes of this Agreement, Employee shall be considered to have terminated employment with Employer when Employee incurs a "separation from service" with the Employer Group within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Code.
If the Committee determines that severance payments due under this Agreement on account of termination of Employee's employment constitute "deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the Code, and that Employee is a "specified employee" as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code and 26 C.F.R. Section 1.409A-1(i), then such severance payments shall commence on the first payroll date of the seventh month following the month in which Employee's termination occurs (with the first such payment being a lump sum equal to the aggregate severance payments Employee would have received during the prior six-month period if no such delay had been imposed). For purposes of this Agreement, whether Employee is a "specified employee" will be determined in accordance with the written procedures adopted by the Committee which are incorporated by reference herein.
All reimbursements and in-kind benefits provided under this Agreement shall be made or provided in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations to the extent that such reimbursements or in-kind benefits are not excepted from Section 409A of the Code, including where applicable, the requirement that (i) any reimbursement is for expenses incurred during Employee's lifetime (or during a shorter period of time specified in the Agreement); (ii) the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement during the calendar year may not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other calendar year; (iii) the reimbursement of an eligible expense will be made on or before the last day of the calendar year following the year in which the expense is incurred; and (iv) the right to reimbursement is not subject to set off or liquidation or exchange for any other benefit.
J. . Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, if Employee has not delivered to Employer an executed Confidential Severance Agreement and Release (the "") on or before the fiftieth (50th) day after the
Confidential Severance Agreement and Release
Release
 
Date of Termination, or if Employee revokes such executed Release prior to the sixtieth (60th) day after the Date of Termination, Employee shall forfeit all of the payments and benefits described in Section IV.G.2 or Section IV.G.4, as applicable; provided, however, that Employee shall not forfeit such amounts if Employer has not delivered to Employee the required form of Release on or before the 25th day following the Date of Termination. A form of Release is attached as hereto. Employee acknowledges that Employer retains the right to modify the required form of the Release as Employer deems necessary in order to effectuate a full and complete release of claims against the Employer Group and its affiliates, officers and directors.
Exhibit B
A. . Employee shall keep complete and current written records of Inventions and Developments made during the course of his employment with Employer and promptly disclose all such Inventions and Developments in writing to Employer so that it may adequately determine its rights in such Inventions and Developments. Employee shall supplement any such disclosure to the extent Employer may request. If Employee has any doubt as to whether or not to disclose any Inventions and Developments, Employee shall disclose the same to Employer.
Records of Inventions
B. . All Company-Related Inventions and Developments made by Employee during the term of his employment with Employer shall be the sole and exclusive property of the applicable member(s) of the Employer Group. Employee shall assign, and does hereby assign, his entire right, title and interest in such Company-Related Inventions and Developments to the applicable member(s) of the Employer Group. Employer's ownership and the foregoing assignment shall apply, without limitation, to all rights under the patent, copyright, and trade secret laws of any jurisdiction relating to Company-Related Inventions and Developments. If Employee asserts any property right in any Inventions and Developments made by Employee during the term of his employment with Employer, Employee shall promptly notify Employer of the same in writing.
Ownership of Inventions
C. . Employee shall assist and fully cooperate with Employer in obtaining and maintaining the fullest measure of legal protection which the Employer Group elects to obtain and maintain for Inventions and Developments in which the Employer Group has a property right. Employee shall execute any lawful document requested by Employer relating to obtaining and maintaining legal protection for any said Inventions and Developments including, but not limited to, executing applications, assignments, oaths, declarations and affidavits. Employee shall make himself available for interviews, depositions and testimony relating to any said Inventions and Developments. These obligations shall survive the termination of Employee's employment with Employer, provided that Employer shall compensate Employee at a reasonable rate after such termination for time actually spent by Employee at Employer's requests on such assistance. In the event Employer is unable for any reason whatsoever to secure Employee's signature to any document reasonably necessary or appropriate for any of the foregoing purposes including, but not limited to, renewals, extensions, continuations, divisions or continuations in part, in a timely manner, Employee irrevocably designates and appoints Employer and its duly authorized officers and agents as his agents and attorneys-in-fact to act for Employee and on his behalf, but only for purposes of executing and filing any such document and doing all other lawfully permitted acts to accomplish the foregoing purposes with the same legal force and effect as if executed by Employee.
Cooperation with Employer
 
D. . Employee shall completely identify on attached hereto, without disclosing any trade secret or other proprietary and confidential information, all Inventions and Developments made by Employee prior to his employment with Employer or prior to execution of this Agreement in which Employee has an ownership interest and which is not the subject matter of an issued patent or a printed publication at the time Employee executes this Agreement.
Pre-employment Inventions
Exhibit C
E. . Employee shall promptly and completely disclose in writing to Employer's law department all Company-Related Inventions and Developments made by Employee during the one (1) year immediately following Employee's termination of employment, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, for the purposes of determining Employer's rights in each such invention. It will be presumed that Company-Related Inventions and Developments conceived by Employee which are reduced to practice within one (1) year after termination of Employee's employment, whether voluntary or involuntary, were conceived during the term of Employee's employment with Employer unless Employee is able to establish a later conception date by clear and convincing evidence.
Disclosure of Inventions after Termination
A. .
Obligations of Employer
1. . Employer shall provide Employee, during his employment, with valuable Proprietary and Confidential Information for the purpose of assisting Employee in the performance of his job requirements and responsibilities with Employer. In addition, Employer shall provide to Employee, during his employment, with the equipment, materials and facilities necessary to assist Employee in the performance of his job requirements and responsibilities with Employer.
Proprietary and Confidential Information
2. . Employer shall provide Employee with any and all specialized training necessary to assist Employee in the performance of his job requirements and responsibilities with Employer including, but not limited to, training relating to the Employer Group's cost structures, methods of operation, the Employer Group's products and marketing techniques, the Employer Group's business strategies, plans and models.
Training
B. .
Obligations of Employee
1. . Both during and after the termination of employment, whether such termination is voluntary or involuntary, Employee shall keep in confidence and trust all Proprietary and Confidential Information. Both during and after the termination of employment, whether such termination is voluntary or involuntary, Employee shall not use or disclose Proprietary or Confidential Information without the written consent of Employer, except as may be necessary in the ordinary course of performing his duties to Employer.
Nondisclosure of Proprietary and Confidential Information
 
2. . All documents and tangible things (whether written or electronic) embodying or containing Proprietary and Confidential Information are the Employer Group's exclusive property. Employee shall be provided with or given access to such Proprietary and Confidential Information solely for performing his duties of employment with Employer. Employee shall protect the confidentiality of their content and shall return all such Proprietary and Confidential Information, including all copies, facsimiles and specimens of them in any tangible or electronic forms in Employee's possession, custody or control to Employer before leaving the employment of Employer for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary.
Return of Proprietary and Confidential Information
3. . Employee shall not disclose or use during his employment with Employer any proprietary and confidential information which Employee has acquired as a result of any previous employment or under a contractual obligation of confidentiality before his employment with Employer and, furthermore, Employee shall not bring to the premises of Employer any copies or other tangible embodiments of any such proprietary and confidential information.
Confidential Information from Previous Employment
4. . Employee shall not engage in outside employment or other activities in the course of which Employee would use or might be tempted or induced to use Proprietary and Confidential Information in other than the Employer Group's own interest.
Conflict of Interest
5. .
Agreement Not to Compete/Solicit
a. . Employee agrees that during the Covenant Period (as defined below), he shall not, without Employer's written consent, directly or indirectly, for himself or on behalf of or in conjunction with any other person, persons, company, partnership, corporation or business venture of any nature:
Non-Compete
(i) engage, as an officer, director, shareholder, owner, partner, joint venturer or in a managerial capacity, whether as an employee, independent contractor, consultant, advisor or sales representative, in any business or industry in which the Employer Group is engaged, within the United States, Canada or any other country in which the Employer Group conducts business, including any territory serviced by the Employer Group, or in which the Employer Group is actively pursuing business opportunities (the "");
Territory
(ii) call upon any person or entity which is, at that time, or which has been, within one (1) year prior to that time, a customer of the Employer Group, or a prospective customer that has been actively solicited by the Employer Group, within the Territory for the purpose of soliciting or selling products or services in competition with the Employer Group; or
(iii) call upon any prospective acquisition candidate, on Employee's own behalf or on behalf of any competitor, which candidate was, to Employee's actual knowledge after due inquiry, either called upon by the Employer Group or for which the Employer Group made an acquisition analysis for the purpose of acquiring such entity.
 
b. . Employee agrees that during the Covenant Period, he shall not, without Employer's written consent, employ, hire, solicit, induce or identify for employment or attempt to employ, hire, solicit, induce or identify for employment, directly or indirectly, any employee(s) of the Employer Group to leave his or her employment and become an employee, consultant or representative of any other entity including, but not limited to, Employee's new employer, if any.
Non-Solicitation
c. . The provisions of Section VI.B.5 of this Agreement shall not prevent Employee from acquiring or holding publicly traded stock or other public securities of a competing company, so long as Employee's ownership does not exceed two percent (2%) of the outstanding securities of such company.
Publicly Traded Securities
d. . For a period of two (2) years after the termination of Employee's employment with Employer, whether voluntary or involuntary, Employee agrees to inform each new employer, prior to accepting employment, of the existence of this Agreement and provide that employer with a copy of this Agreement.
Agreement to Inform Subsequent Employers
e. . Employee acknowledges that the restrictions set forth in Section VI.B.5 of this Agreement are intended to protect the Employer Group's legitimate business interests and its Proprietary and Confidential Information and established relationships and good will. Employee acknowledges that the time, geographic and scope of activity limitations set forth herein are reasonable and necessary to protect the Employer Group's legitimate business interests. However, if in any judicial proceeding, a court shall refuse to enforce this Agreement as written, whether because the time limitation is too long or because the restrictions contained herein are more extensive (whether as to geographic area, scope of activity or otherwise) than is necessary to protect the legitimate business interests of the Employer Group, it is expressly understood and agreed between the parties hereto that this Agreement is deemed modified to the extent necessary to permit this Agreement to be enforced in any such proceedings.
Reasonableness of Restrictions
f. . Employee acknowledges that (1) in the event of the termination of his employment with Employer (whether voluntary or involuntary), Employee's knowledge, experience and capabilities are such that Employee can obtain employment in business activities which are of a different and non-competing nature than those performed in the course of his employment with Employer or in the geographic areas outside of the Territory and (2) the enforcement of a remedy hereunder including, but not limited to, injunctive relief, will not prevent Employee from earning a reasonable livelihood.
Ability to Obtain Other Employment
g. . Employee acknowledges that compliance with Section VI.B of this Agreement is necessary to protect the good will and other legitimate business interests of the Employer Group and that a breach of any or all of these provisions will give rise to irreparable and continuing injury to the Employer Group that is not adequately compensable in monetary damages or at law. Accordingly, Employee agrees that Employer, its successors and assigns, may obtain injunctive relief against the breach or threatened breach of any or all of these provisions, in addition to any other legal or equitable remedies which may be available to the Employer Group at law or in equity or under this Agreement. Because Employee further acknowledges that it would be difficult to measure any damages caused to the Employer Group that might result from any breach by Employee of any promises set forth in this Agreement, Employee agrees that Employer shall be entitled to an injunction or other appropriate equitable relief to restrain any such breach without showing or proving any actual damage to the Employer Group, as well as to be relieved of any obligation to provide further payment or benefits to Employee or Employee's dependents.
Injunctive Relief
 
h. . If Employee violates and/or breaches this Agreement, Employer shall be entitled to an accounting and repayment of all lost profits, compensation, commissions, remuneration or benefits that Employee directly or indirectly has realized or may realize as a result of any such violation or breach. Employer shall also be entitled to recover for all lost sales, profits, commissions, good will and customers caused by Employee's improper acts, in addition to and not in limitation of any injunctive relief or other rights or remedies that Employer is or may be entitled to at law or in equity or under this Agreement.
Other Remedies
i. . Employee acknowledges that should it become necessary for Employer to file suit to enforce the provisions contained herein, and any court of competent jurisdiction awards the Employer Group any damages and/or an injunction due to the acts of Employee, then Employer shall be entitled to recover its reasonable costs incurred in conducting the suit including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses.
Costs
j. . For purposes of this Section VI.B.5, the Covenant Period shall mean the period from and during the Term of this Agreement and ending on the date that is two (2) years after Employee's employment with Employer terminates, whether voluntary or involuntary; provided, however, that if Employer delivers to Employee a Renewal Termination Notice, as provided in Section III.B, and Employee remains employed with Employer through the expiration of the Term (and this Agreement), then the Covenant Period shall end on the date that is one (1) year after the date of such Renewal Termination Notice. For purposes of clarity, in the event that Employee's employment with Employer terminates for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary, after Employee receives a Renewal Termination Notice and before the end of the Term, the Covenant Period shall end on the date that is two (2) years after the termination of Employee's employment.
Covenant Period
6. . Employee acknowledges and agrees that both during and after his employment with Employer, whether such termination is voluntary or involuntary, Employee shall not disparage, denigrate or comment negatively upon, either orally or in writing, the Employer Group or any of their respective officers, directors, employees or representatives, to or in the presence of any person or entity unless compelled to act by a valid subpoena or other legal mandate; provided, however, if Employee receives such a valid subpoena or legal mandate, he shall provide Employer with written notice of the same at least five (5) business days prior to the date on which Employee is required to make the disclosure. Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent Employee from asserting a breach of this Agreement by Employer and pursuing appropriate remedies.
Nondisparagement
EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYEE HEREBY VOLUNTARILY, KNOWINGLY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVE ANY AND ALL RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY TO ALL CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, AS WELL AS TO ALL CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF EMPLOYEE'S EMPLOYMENT WITH EMPLOYER OR TERMINATION THEREFROM INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO:
 
A. Any and all claims and causes of action arising under contract, tort or other common law including, without limitation, breach of contract, fraud, estoppel, misrepresentation, express or implied duties of good faith and fair dealing, wrongful discharge, discrimination, retaliation, harassment, negligence, gross negligence, false imprisonment, assault and battery, conspiracy, intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress, slander, libel, defamation and invasion of privacy;
B. Any and all claims and causes of action arising under any federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance, including, without limitation, claims arising under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act and all corresponding state laws; and
C. Any and all claims and causes of action for wages, employee benefits, vacation pay, severance pay, pension or profit sharing benefits, health or welfare benefits, bonus compensation, commissions, deferred compensation or other remuneration, employment benefits or compensation, past or future loss of pay or benefits or expenses.
Employer and Employee acknowledge and agree that this Agreement shall be interpreted, governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas, without regard to the conflict of laws principles or rules thereof.
Employer and Employee irrevocably and unconditionally agree that any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, as well as to all claims arising out of Employee's employment with Employer or termination therefrom, shall be brought in either the Federal District Court for the Southern District of TexasHouston Division or in a judicial district court of Harris County, Texas (hereinafter referred to as the ""). In that regard, Employer and Employee waive, to the fullest extent allowed, any objection that Employer or Employee may have to the venue of any such proceeding being brought in the Texas Courts, and any claim that any such action or proceeding brought in the Texas Courts has been brought in an inconvenient forum. In addition, Employer and Employee irrevocably and unconditionally submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Texas Courts in any such suit, action or proceeding. Employer and Employee acknowledge and agree that a judgment in any suit, action or proceeding brought in the Texas Courts shall be conclusive and binding on each and may be enforced in any other courts to whose jurisdiction Employer or Employee is or may be subject to, by suit upon such judgment.
Texas Courts
In the event Employee obtains a final judgment in his favor by a court of competent jurisdiction with respect to any dispute regarding Employer's failure to pay Employee on a timely basis the amounts to which he is entitled under this Agreement or as a result of any other breach of this Agreement by Employer, Employer shall pay all amounts and damages to which Employee may be entitled as a result of such breach, including interest thereon and all reasonable legal fees and expense and other costs incurred by Employee to enforce Employee's rights hereunder.
 
A. . By executing this Agreement, Employee forever gives the Employer Group, its successors, assigns, licensees and any other designees, the absolute right and permission, throughout the world: (1) to copyright (and to renew and extend any copyright), use, reuse, publish and republish photographic portraits and pictures, motion or still, of Employee, or in which Employee may be included, in whole or in part, or composite or distorted character in any form, whether heretofore taken or to be taken in the future, in conjunction with Employee's own or a fictitious name or title (which Employee now has or may have in the future), or reproductions thereof, in color or otherwise, made through any media at any place, for art, advertising, trade or any other purpose whatsoever; and (2) to record, reproduce, amplify, simulate, "double" and/or "dub" Employee's voice and transmit the same by any mechanical or electronic means, for any purpose whatsoever. Employee further consents to the use of any printed matter giving Employee, or not giving Employee, a credit, in the sole discretion of any of the aforementioned parties to whom this authorization and release is given, in conjunction therewith. Employee waives any right he may have to inspect and/or approve the finished product or the advertising copy or printed matter that may be used in connection therewith, or the use to which it may be applied.
Publicity Release
B. . Employer may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such federal, state, local, F.I.C.A., foreign or other taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
Withholding
C. . All notices, consents, requests, instructions, approvals and other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be addressed as follows:
Notices
 
2800 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 2600
Houston, Texas 77056
Attention: General Counsel
 
2800 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 2600
Houston, Texas 77056
Notice shall be deemed given and effective: (1) upon receipt, if delivered personally; (2) three (3) days after it has been deposited in the U.S. mail, addressed as required above, and sent via registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid; or (3) the next business day after it has been sent via a recognized overnight courier. Employer and/or Employee may change the address for notice purposes by notifying the other of such change in accordance with this Section IX.C.
 
D. . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, inoperative or unenforceable for any reason, it shall be modified rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties hereto to the maximum extent possible. In any event, if any provision this Agreement is held to be invalid, inoperative or unenforceable for any reason, the other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and operative and, so far as is reasonable and possible, effect shall be given to the intent manifested by the provision or provisions held invalid or inoperative.
Severability
E. . The obligations of the parties set forth in this Agreement that by their terms extend beyond or survive the termination of this Agreement, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, will not be affected or diminished in any way by the termination of this Agreement.
Survival of Certain Obligations
F. . The headings contained in this Agreement are for purposes of reference and convenience only and are not intended in any way to describe, interpret, define or limit the extent or intent of this Agreement.
Headings
G. . This Agreement supersedes any other agreements, written or oral, between the Employer Group and Employee, and Employee has no oral representations, understandings or agreements with the Employer Group or any of their respective officers, directors or representatives covering the same subject matter as this Agreement, including, but not limited to, that certain Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between Quanta and Employee effective May 21, 2003, and as thereafter amended. This written Agreement is the final, complete and exclusive statement and expression of the agreement between Employer and Employee and of all the terms of this Agreement. This Agreement cannot be modified, varied, contradicted or supplement by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous oral or written agreements.
Entire Agreement
H. . Neither this Agreement nor any term hereof may be modified or amended except by written instrument signed by a duly authorized officer of Employer and by Employee. No term of this Agreement may be waived other than by written instrument signed by the party waiving the benefit of such term. Any such waiver shall constitute a waiver only with respect to the specific matter described in such written instrument and shall in no way impair the rights of the party granting such waiver in any other respect or at any other time. Neither the waiver by Employer or Employee of a breach of or a default under any of the provisions of this Agreement, nor the failure by either Employer or Employee, on one or more occasions, to enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement or to exercise any right or privilege hereunder, shall be construed as a waiver of any other breach or default of a similar nature, or as a waiver of any such provisions, rights or privileges hereunder.
Amendment/Waiver
I. . This Agreement is personal to the parties and neither party may assign any rights or obligations under the same without the prior written consent of the other; provided, however, that in the event of a sale of the Employer Group's business to a third party (whether by sale of all or a majority of the Employer Group's issued and outstanding equity securities, by a merger or reorganization, or by a sale of all or substantially of the Employer Group's assets), then this Agreement may be assigned by Employer to such third party purchaser without the prior written consent of Employee, provided that such third party purchaser agrees to
Assignment
 
assume and abide by all of Employer's obligations set forth in this Agreement and provides written notice thereof to Employee. In the event of any such assignment, all references to "Quanta" hereunder shall mean the assignee, and to the extent any entity becomes the successor to Quanta, all obligations hereunder shall be the obligations of the successor and "Quanta" mean the successor entity.
J. . This Agreement may be executed simultaneously in two (2) or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above, but to be effective as of the Effective Date.
QUANTA SERVICES, INC.:
 
 
During the Initial Term:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the Transition Term and thereafter:
 
 
 
 
 
This Severance Agreement and Release of All Claims (the "Agreement") is made and entered into by and between James H. Haddox (hereinafter referred to as the "Employee") and Quanta Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation, (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Company").
The purpose of this Agreement is to arrange a settlement of the Employee's employment with the Company that is satisfactory both to the Company and to the Employee. By signing this Agreement, the Company and the Employee agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Employee expressly represents and agrees that he has been advised that, by entering into this Agreement, he is waiving all claims that he may have against the Company arising under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, which have arisen on or before the date of execution of this Agreement.
 
Notwithstanding the preceding provision or any other provision of the Agreement, Employee's agreement to the provisions under Section 6, or the paragraph immediately above this paragraph, is not intended to prohibit Employee from bringing an action to challenge the validity of the release of claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, as amended, or the Older Worker's Benefit Protection Act, as amended. The Employee further understands and agrees that if he or someone acting on his behalf files, or causes to be filed, any such claim, charge, complaint, or action against the Released Parties, he expressly waives any right to recover any damages or other relief, whatsoever, from the Released Parties including costs and attorneys' fees.
This Agreement is not intended to interfere with Employee's right to file a charge with an administrative agency in connection with any claim Employee believes he may have against any of the Released Parties. However, by executing this Agreement, Employee hereby waives the right to recover, and agrees not to seek any damages, remedies or other relief for himself personally in any proceeding he may bring before such agency or in any proceeding brought by such agency, or any other person, on his behalf. This Agreement is also not intended to apply to claims for accrued benefits (other than severance-type benefits) under any benefit plan of the Released Parties pursuant to the terms of any such plan.
Employee understands that he is not releasing rights under this Agreement, that any claims that cannot be lawfully waived are excluded from this Agreement and that by executing this Agreement he is not waiving any such claims. Likewise, Employee is not releasing any rights or claims that may arise after the date on which he signs this Agreement. In addition, while this Agreement requires Employee to waive any and all claims against the Released Parties arising under workers' compensation laws (e.g., claims of retaliation for filing a workers' compensation claim), it is not intended to prohibit Employee from filing in good faith for and from receiving any workers' compensation benefits from Released Parties' workers' compensation carrier for compensable injuries incurred during his employment. Accordingly, pursuit of any such workers' compensation benefits with Released Parties' workers' compensation carrier or third-party administrator will not be considered a violation of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Employee further acknowledges and agrees that the Employee is obligated to not, at any time, disclose or otherwise make available to any person, company or other party Confidential Information or trade secrets of the Company, its parent, associated companies, affiliates, and subsidiaries This Agreement shall not limit any obligations the Employee has under any applicable federal or state law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE STATE OF             
                                          
COUNTY OF                  
The foregoing instrument was SWORN TO AND SUBSCRIBED BEFORE ME BY JAMES H. HADDOX AND GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND SEAL OF OFFICE on this the             day of             , A.D., 20    .
My commission expires:             
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
This Employment Agreement (the "") is entered into between Quanta Services, Inc. ("") and Derrick A. Jensen ("") on this 29
Agreement
Quanta
Employee
th
day of March, 2012, but effective as of May 17, 2012 (the "").
Effective Date
As of the date of this Agreement, the Employer Group (as defined below) is engaged primarily in the business of specialty contracting for customers in the electric power, natural gas, oil, pipeline, renewable energies and telecommunications industries, as well as for transportation, commercial and industrial customers. As such, the Employer Group has developed and continues to develop and use certain trade secrets and other Proprietary and Confidential Information, as hereinafter defined. The Employer Group has spent a substantial amount of time, effort and money, and will continue to do so in the future, to develop or acquire such Proprietary and Confidential Information and promote and increase its good will. Employer (as defined below) and Employee acknowledge and agree that Proprietary and Confidential Information is an asset of particular and immeasurable value to the Employer Group.
Pursuant to this Agreement, Employee shall be employed by Employer in a confidential and fiduciary relationship and such Proprietary and Confidential Information will necessarily be provided to, communicated to, or acquired by Employee by virtue of his employment with Employer.
Based upon the above, Employer desires to retain the services of Employee on its own behalf, as well as on the behalf of its subsidiaries and affiliated companies and, in so doing, protect its Proprietary and Confidential Information subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein.
A. For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean Quanta or any other affiliated entity that is deemed to be the employer of Employee, and "" shall mean Quanta and its predecessors, designees, successors, and past, present and future operating companies, divisions, subsidiaries and/or affiliates.
Employer
Employer Group
B. As used in this Agreement, "" means any and all non-public information or data in any form or medium, tangible or intangible, which has commercial value and which the Employer Group possesses or to which the Employer Group has rights. Proprietary and Confidential Information includes, by way of example and without limitation, information concerning the Employer Group's specific manner of doing business, including, but not limited to, the processes, methods or techniques utilized by the Employer Group, the Employer Group's customers, marketing strategies and plans, pricing information, sources of supply and material specifications, the Employer Group's computer programs, system documentation, special hardware, related software development, and the Employer Group's business models, manuals, formulations, equipment, compositions, configurations, know-how, ideas, improvements and inventions.
Proprietary and Confidential Information
Proprietary and Confidential Information also includes information developed by Employee during his course of employment with Employer or otherwise relating to Company-Related Inventions and Developments, as hereinafter defined, as well as other information to which he may be given access to in connection with his employment.
C. As used in this Agreement, "" means any and all inventions, developments, creative works and useful ideas of any description whatsoever, whether or not patentable. Inventions and Developments include, by way of example and without limitation, discoveries and improvements that consist of or relate to any form of Proprietary and Confidential Information.
Inventions and Developments
D. As used in this Agreement, "" means all Inventions and Developments that: (a) relate at the time of conception or development to the actual business of the Employer Group or to its actual research and development or to business or research and development that is the subject of active planning at the time; (b) result from or relate to any work performed for Employer, whether or not during normal business hours; (c) are developed on Employer's time; or (d) are developed through the use of the Employer Group's Proprietary and Confidential Information, equipment, software, or other facilities and resources.
Company-Related Inventions and Developments
E. For purposes of this Agreement, "" or "," when used in relation to Inventions and Developments, includes any one or any combination of: (a) conception; (b) reduction to practice; or (c) development; and is without regard to whether Employee is a sole or joint inventor.
make
made
F. For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean:
Change in Control
1. Any person or entity, or more than one person or entity acting as a group, other than a member of the Employer Group or an employee benefit plan of the Employer Group, acquires directly or indirectly Beneficial Ownership (as defined in Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) of any Voting Security of Quanta and immediately after such acquisition such person, entity or group is, directly or indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of Voting Securities representing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total fair market value or total voting power of all of the then-outstanding Voting Securities of Quanta; or
2. Any person or entity, or more than one person or entity acting as a group, other than a member of the Employer Group or an employee benefit plan of the Employer Group, acquires directly or indirectly, or has acquired during the preceding twelve (12) months, Beneficial Ownership (as defined in Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) of any Voting Security of Quanta and immediately after such acquisition such person, entity or group is, directly or indirectly, the Beneficial Owner of Voting Securities representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the total voting power of all of the then-outstanding Voting Securities of Quanta; or
3. Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors of Quanta (the ""), and any new director whose election by the Board or nomination for election by Quanta's stockholders was approved by a vote of a majority of the directors then still in office who were directors as of the date hereof or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the members of the Board within a 12-month period; or
Board
 
4. Any person or entity, or more than one person or entity acting as a group, other than a member of the Employer Group or an employee benefit plan of the Employer Group, acquires directly or indirectly, or has acquired during the preceding 12-months, forty percent (40%) or more of the total gross fair market value of assets of the Employer Group.
G. For purposes of this Agreement, "" means common stock or other capital stock, including preferred stock, of the applicable entity entitled generally to vote in the election of directors and preferred stock and other equity securities (not including options, warrants or similar rights) convertible into securities entitled generally to vote in the election of directors (whether or not then convertible).
Voting Security
A. . Employee is hereby employed by Employer as Chief Financial Officer. Employee shall have the primary responsibilities, duties and authority commensurate with Employee's position and as prescribed from time to time by the Board or Quanta's Chief Executive Officer, in their discretion, in a manner consistent with Employee's position. Employee shall devote his full business time, attention and effort to the performance of this Agreement and to his duties as described herein.
Position and Duties
1. Employee shall faithfully adhere to, execute and fulfill the duties and responsibilities of Employee's position and as prescribed from time to time by the Board or Quanta's Chief Executive Officer.
2. Employee agrees to devote reasonable attention and time to the business and affairs of Employer and, to the extent necessary, to discharge the responsibilities assigned to Employee hereunder, to use Employee's reasonable best efforts to perform faithfully and efficiently such responsibilities.
3. Employee shall not, during the term of his employment, be engaged in any other business activity pursued for gain, profit or other pecuniary advantage if such activity interferes with Employee's duties and responsibilities to Employer. The foregoing limitations shall not be construed as prohibiting Employee from serving on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, delivering lectures or fulfilling speaking engagements, teaching at educational institutions, or making personal investments, so long as such activities do not significantly interfere with the performance of Employee's responsibilities to Employer as set forth in this Agreement.
4. In the performance of his duties, Employee shall use his best efforts to adhere to the legal requirements codified in statutes, ordinances and governmental regulations applicable to Employer.
 
B. The initial term of this Agreement shall begin on the Effective Date and shall continue for two (2) years, unless terminated sooner pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement (the ""). At the expiration of the Initial Term, unless terminated sooner pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, and each annual anniversary thereafter, this Agreement will renew automatically for an additional one (1) year period (the "") unless either party notifies the other party in writing of its or his intention not to renew this Agreement (the "") not less than six (6) months prior to the expiration of the Initial Term or of any Renewal Term (the Initial Term and any Renewal Term are referred to collectively as the "").
Term.
Initial Term
Renewal Term
Renewal Termination Notice
Term
1. . This Agreement (and all of Employee's rights and Employer's obligations hereunder) shall terminate as of the date of Employee's death.
Termination upon Death
2. . If Employee becomes Disabled as defined herein, Employer may, by written notice to Employee, terminate this Agreement and Employee's employment hereunder. For purposes of this Agreement, "" or "" means, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board (the ""), that (i) Employee is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of a physical or mental impairment that is expected to result in death or last twelve (12) months or more, or Employee receives replacement income for three (3) months or more due to such physical or mental impairment or (ii) such other definition that complies with the definition of disability under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "") and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
Termination upon Disability
Disabled
Disability
Committee
Code
3. . Employer may terminate this Agreement and Employee's employment hereunder for Cause by providing written notice to Employee of its intention to do so. For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean:
Termination for Cause
Cause
a. Employee's gross negligence in the performance of, intentional nonperformance of, or inattention to his material duties and responsibilities hereunder, any of which continue for five (5) business days after receipt of written notice of need to cure the same;
b. Employee's willful dishonesty, fraud or material misconduct with respect to the business or affairs of Employer;
c. the violation by Employee of any of Employer's policies or procedures, which violation is not cured by Employee within five (5) business days after Employee has been given written notice thereof;
d. a conviction of, a plea of nolo contendere, a guilty plea, or confession by Employee to, an act of fraud, misappropriation or embezzlement or any crime punishable as a felony or any other crime that involves moral turpitude;
e. Employee's use of illegal substances or habitual drunkenness; or
f. the breach by Employee of this Agreement if Employee does not cure such breach within five (5) business days after Employee has been given written notice thereof.
 
4. . Employee may terminate this Agreement and his employment hereunder for Good Reason in the twelve (12) months following a Change in Control by providing written notice to Employer of his intention to do so. For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean:
Termination for Good Reason
Good Reason
a. the assignment to Employee of any duties inconsistent with Employee's position (including offices, titles and reporting requirements), authority, duties or responsibilities as contemplated by Section III.A of this Agreement and as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, or any other action by Employer that results in a diminution in such position, authority, duties or responsibilities (excluding for this purpose an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith);
b. any material breach of this Agreement by Employer, including any requirement that Employee be based at any office or location that results in a violation of Section III.E of this Agreement;
c. any failure by Employer to comply with any of the provisions of Section IV of this Agreement (excluding for this purpose an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith);
d. any failure by Employer to continue in effect any cash or stock-based incentive or bonus plan, retirement plan, welfare benefit plan or other compensation, retirement or benefit plan and policy, unless the aggregate value (as computed by an independent employee benefits consultant selected by Employer and reasonably acceptable to Employee or Employee's legal representative) of all such compensation, retirement or benefit plans and policies provided to Employee is not materially less than their aggregate value as in effect at any time during the one hundred twenty (120) day period immediately preceding a Change in Control or, if more favorable to Employee, those provided generally at any time after the Change in Control to other peer employees of Employer and its affiliated companies;
e. Employee's receipt from Employer of a Renewal Termination Notice as provided in Section III.B; and
f. in the event of a pending Change in Control, Employer and Employee have not received written notice at least five (5) business days prior to the anticipated closing date of the transaction giving rise to the Change in Control from the successor to all or a substantial portion of the Employer Group's business and/or assets that such successor is willing as of the closing to assume and agree to perform Employer's obligations under this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that Employer is hereby required to perform.
Employee must provide written notice to Employer of the existence of the condition(s) described in Section III.B.4.a through Section III.B.4.d above within 90 days of the initial existence of the condition(s). Employer shall have 30 days after such notice is given during which to remedy the condition(s), and such occurrence shall not be deemed to constitute Good Reason if such event or circumstance has been fully corrected by Employer within the 30 day cure period and Employee has been reasonably compensated for monetary losses or damages resulting therefrom.
 
C. . Any termination by Employer for Cause or Disability or by Employee for Good Reason shall be communicated by a Notice of Termination provided to the other party pursuant to the provisions of Section IX.C of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, "" means a written notice that: (1) indicates the specific termination provision or provisions as set forth in this Agreement relied upon by either Employer or Employee; (2) to the extent applicable, sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide the basis for termination under the provision or provisions of this Agreement relied upon by either Employer or Employee; and (3) if the Date of Termination (as defined below) is other than the date of receipt of such Notice of Termination, specifies the termination date. The failure by either Employer or Employee to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance that contributes to a showing of Cause or Good Reason shall not waive any right of Employer or Employee or preclude Employer or Employee from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing Employer's or Employee's rights or obligations under this Agreement.
Notice of Termination
Notice of Termination
D. . According to this Agreement, "" shall mean: (1) if Employee's employment is terminated for Cause or Disability, or by Employee for Good Reason, the date of receipt of the Notice of Termination or any later date specified therein or as required under this Agreement; (2) if Employee's employment is terminated by Employer other than for Cause or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date on which Employer notifies Employee of such termination; (3) if Employee's employment is terminated by reason of death, the Date of Termination shall be the date of the death of Employee; or (4) if Employee voluntarily terminates his employment, the Date of Termination shall be the date on which Employee and Employer shall agree to be the Date of Termination.
Date of Termination
Date of Termination
E. . Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to require Employee to relocate from Employee's present residence to another geographic location in order to carry out Employee's duties and responsibilities under this Agreement, other than normal business travel consistent with Employee's duties, responsibilities and position.
Place of Performance
A. . Employer agrees to compensate and pay Employee, or to cause Employee to be compensated and paid, an annual base salary of $420,000, payable on a regular basis in accordance with Employer's standard payroll procedures but not less frequently than monthly.
Annual Base Salary
On at least an annual basis, the Board or a duly constituted committee thereof will review Employee's performance and may make increases to Employee's annual base salary if, in its sole discretion, any such increase is warranted.
B. . Employee shall participate in Employer's annual and supplemental incentive bonus plans at a level commensurate with Employee's position. Employee may participate in other current and future incentive bonus plans as determined by the Board or a duly constituted committee thereof.
Bonus
 
C. Employee shall be entitled to participate in all incentive, savings and retirement plans, practices, policies and programs generally applicable to other peer employees of Employer.
Incentive, Savings and Retirement Plans.
D. . Employee and Employee's dependents shall receive coverage under the welfare benefit plans, practices, policies and programs provided by Employer including, but not limited to, medical, prescription, dental, disability, employee life, group life, accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs, generally applicable to other peer employees of Employer, the terms and conditions of which shall be no less favorable than those available to other similarly situated officers of Employer.
Welfare Benefit Plans
E. . Employer shall reimburse Employee or cause Employee to be promptly reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by Employee in furtherance of the business and affairs of the Employer Group including, but not limited to, all travel expenses and living expenses while away from home on business or at the request of Employer or the Board. Such reimbursement shall be effected as soon as reasonably practicable after such expenditures are made, against presentation of signed, itemized expense reports in accordance with the travel and business expense reimbursement policies of Employer.
Reimbursement of Expenses
F. . As set forth below, the following obligations are imposed upon Employer upon termination of this Agreement; provided, however, that to be entitled to such severance benefits, Employee will be required to execute, and not revoke, a Confidential Severance Agreement and Release provided by Employer as more fully described in Section IV.I below.
Severance Benefits upon Termination
1. . If Employee's employment is terminated due to his death, Employee shall not be entitled to any severance benefits under the terms of this Agreement.
Death
2. . If Employee's employment is terminated due to his Disability, Employee shall be entitled to severance benefits equal to one (1) year of Employee's annual base salary. Subject to Employee's compliance with the requirements of Section IV.I below, such severance benefits shall be paid to Employee in a lump-sum payment within sixty (60) days of the Date of Termination.
Disability
3. . If Employee's employment is terminated for Cause as defined under this Agreement, Employee shall not be entitled to any severance benefits under the terms of this Agreement.
Cause
4. . If Employee's employment is terminated by Employer without Cause (other than within the twelve (12) months following a Change in Control), Employee shall be entitled to severance benefits equal to two (2) years of Employee's annual base salary. Subject to Employee's compliance with the requirements of Section IV.I below, such severance benefits shall be paid to Employee in a lump-sum payment within sixty (60) days of the Date of Termination. In the event that Employee is entitled to receive severance benefits under Section IV.G.1, Employee will not be entitled to receive severance benefits under this Section.
Without Cause
 
5. . If Employee resigns his employment, Employee shall not be entitled to any severance benefits under the terms of this Agreement unless Employee resigns his employment for Good Reason within the twelve (12) months following a Change in Control as described in Section IV.G.2 below.
Resignation by Employee
G. Severance Benefits upon Change in Control.
1. . In the event Employee is terminated without Cause by Employer within twelve (12) months following a Change in Control, Employee shall be entitled to the following:
Termination without Cause
a. a lump-sum payment, due on the Date of Termination, of a sum equal to three (3) times Employee's base salary at the rate then in effect; and
b. a lump-sum payment, due on the Date of Termination, of a sum equal to three (3) times the higher of (i) the highest annual cash bonus paid (or earned if not yet paid) to Employee for the three (3) fiscal years preceding Employee's termination under Employer's annual incentive bonus plan or a direct predecessor thereto or replacement thereof or (ii) Employee's target annual cash bonus payable, including any bonus or portion thereof which has been earned but deferred, under Employer's annual incentive bonus plan or a direct predecessor thereto or replacement thereof for the current fiscal year or, if such target bonus has not yet been determined, for the most recently completed fiscal year; and
c. for a period of three (3) years following Employee's termination continuation of medical, dental and vision benefit coverage for Employee and Employee's dependents at least equal to those that would have been provided to the same in accordance with the plans, programs, practices and policies described in Section IV.D of this Agreement if Employee's employment had not been terminated or, if more favorable to Employee, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peers of Employee; provided, however, that if Employee becomes reemployed with another employer and is eligible to receive medical, dental or vision benefits under another employer provided plan, the medical, dental and vision benefits described herein shall be secondary to those provided under such other plan during such applicable period of eligibility.
In the event that Employee is entitled to receive severance benefits under this Section V.G.1, Employee will not be entitled to receive severance benefits under Section IV.F.4.
2. . In the event Employee terminates his employment for Good Reason within twelve (12) months following a Change in Control, Employee shall be entitled to:
Termination by Employee with Good Reason
a. a lump-sum payment, due on the Date of Termination, of a sum equal to three (3) times Employee's base salary at the rate then in effect;
b. a lump-sum payment, due on the Date of Termination, of a sum equal to three (3) times the higher of (i) the highest annual cash bonus paid (or earned if not yet paid) to Employee for the three (3) fiscal years preceding Employee's termination under Employer's annual incentive bonus plan or a direct predecessor thereto or replacement thereof or
 
(ii) Employee's target annual cash bonus payable, including any bonus or portion thereof which has been earned but deferred, under Employer's annual incentive bonus plan or a direct predecessor thereto or replacement thereof for the current fiscal year or, if such target bonus has not yet been determined, for the most recently completed fiscal year; and
c. for a period of three (3) years following Employee's termination continuation of medical, dental and vision benefit coverage for Employee and Employee's dependents at least equal to those that would have been provided to the same in accordance with the plans, programs, practices and policies described in Section IV.D of this Agreement if Employee's employment had not been terminated or, if more favorable to Employee, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peers of Employee; provided, however, that if Employee becomes reemployed with another employer and is eligible to receive medical, dental or vision benefits under another employer provided plan, the medical, dental and vision benefits described herein shall be secondary to those provided under such other plan during such applicable period of eligibility.
3. . Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event that it shall be determined (as herein after provided) that any payment or distribution by Employer or any of its affiliates to or for the benefit of Employee, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise pursuant to or by reason of any other agreement, policy, plan, program, or arrangement including, without limitation, any stock option, restricted stock, stock appreciation right or similar right, or the lapse or termination of any restriction on, or the vesting or exercisability of, any of the foregoing (individually and collectively, a ""), would be subject, but for the application of this Section IV.G.3 to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, or any successor provision thereto (hereinafter the ""), by reason of being considered "contingent on a change in ownership or control" of Employer, within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code, or any successor provision thereto, then:
Limitation on Severance Benefits
Payment
Excise Tax
a. if the After-Tax Payment Amount would be greater by reducing the amount of the Payment otherwise payable to Employee to the minimum extent necessary (but in no event less than zero) so that, after such reduction, no portion of the Payment would be subject to the Excise Tax, then the Payment shall be so reduced; and
b. if the After-Tax Payment Amount would be greater without the reduction then there shall be no reduction in the Payment.
As used in this Section IV.G.3, "" means (i) the amount of the Payment, less (ii) the amount of federal income taxes payable with respect to the Payment calculated at the maximum marginal income tax rate for each year in which the Payment shall be paid to Employee (based upon the rate in effect for such year as set forth in the Code at the time of the Payment), less (iii) the amount of the Excise Tax, if any, imposed upon the Payment. For purposes of any reduction made under Section IV.G.3.a, the Payments that shall be reduced shall be those that provide Employee the best economic benefit, and to the extent any Payments are economically equivalent, each shall be reduced pro rata.
After-Tax Payment Amount
 
H. . The payments to be made under this Agreement are intended to be exempt from or compliant with Section 409A of the Code. Specifically, the severance payments and benefits under Section IV.F and Section IV.G hereof are intended to be exempt from Section 409A of the Code by compliance with the short-term deferral exemption as specified in 26 C.F.R. Section 1.409A-1(b)(4) and/or the separation pay exemption as specified in 26 C.F.R. Section 1.409A-1(b)(9) or are intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code including, but not limited to, being paid upon disability pursuant to 26 C.F.R. Section 1.409-3(i)(4), pursuant to change in control event pursuant to 26 C.F.R. Section 1.409A-3(i)(5) or pursuant to a fixed schedule or specified date pursuant to 26 C.F.R. Section 1.409A-3(a), and the provisions of this Agreement will be administered, interpreted and construed accordingly. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Employer makes no representation or warranty and shall have no liability to Employee or any other person if any provisions of this Agreement are determined to constitute deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code and do not satisfy an exemption from, or the conditions of, Section 409A of the Code.
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
For all purposes of this Agreement, Employee shall be considered to have terminated employment with Employer when Employee incurs a "separation from service" with the Employer Group within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Code.
If the Committee determines that severance payments due under this Agreement on account of termination of Employee's employment constitute "deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the Code, and that Employee is a "specified employee" as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code and 26 C.F.R. Section 1.409A-1(i), then such severance payments shall commence on the first payroll date of the seventh month following the month in which Employee's termination occurs (with the first such payment being a lump sum equal to the aggregate severance payments Employee would have received during the prior six-month period if no such delay had been imposed). For purposes of this Agreement, whether Employee is a "specified employee" will be determined in accordance with the written procedures adopted by the Committee which are incorporated by reference herein.
All reimbursements and in-kind benefits provided under this Agreement shall be made or provided in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations to the extent that such reimbursements or in-kind benefits are not excepted from Section 409A of the Code, including where applicable, the requirement that (i) any reimbursement is for expenses incurred during Employee's lifetime (or during a shorter period of time specified in the Agreement); (ii) the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement during the calendar year may not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other calendar year; (iii) the reimbursement of an eligible expense will be made on or before the last day of the calendar year following the year in which the expense is incurred; and (iv) the right to reimbursement is not subject to set off or liquidation or exchange for any other benefit.
I. . Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, if Employee has not delivered to Employer an executed Confidential Severance Agreement and Release (the "") on or before the fiftieth (50th) day after the Date of Termination, or if Employee revokes such executed Release prior to the sixtieth (60th) day after the Date of Termination, Employee shall forfeit all of the payments and benefits described in Section IV.F.2 or Section IV.F.4, as applicable; provided, however, that Employee
Confidential Severance Agreement and Release
Release
 
shall not forfeit such amounts if Employer has not delivered to Employee the required form of Release on or before the 25th day following the Date of Termination. A form of Release is attached as hereto. Employee acknowledges that Employer retains the right to modify the required form of the Release as Employer deems necessary in order to effectuate a full and complete release of claims against the Employer Group and its affiliates, officers and directors.
Exhibit A
A. . Employee shall keep complete and current written records of Inventions and Developments made during the course of his employment with Employer and promptly disclose all such Inventions and Developments in writing to Employer so that it may adequately determine its rights in such Inventions and Developments. Employee shall supplement any such disclosure to the extent Employer may request. If Employee has any doubt as to whether or not to disclose any Inventions and Developments, Employee shall disclose the same to Employer.
Records of Inventions
B. . All Company-Related Inventions and Developments made by Employee during the term of his employment with Employer shall be the sole and exclusive property of the applicable member(s) of the Employer Group. Employee shall assign, and does hereby assign, his entire right, title and interest in such Company-Related Inventions and Developments to the applicable member(s) of the Employer Group. Employer's ownership and the foregoing assignment shall apply, without limitation, to all rights under the patent, copyright, and trade secret laws of any jurisdiction relating to Company-Related Inventions and Developments. If Employee asserts any property right in any Inventions and Developments made by Employee during the term of his employment with Employer, Employee shall promptly notify Employer of the same in writing.
Ownership of Inventions
C. . Employee shall assist and fully cooperate with Employer in obtaining and maintaining the fullest measure of legal protection which the Employer Group elects to obtain and maintain for Inventions and Developments in which the Employer Group has a property right. Employee shall execute any lawful document requested by Employer relating to obtaining and maintaining legal protection for any said Inventions and Developments including, but not limited to, executing applications, assignments, oaths, declarations and affidavits. Employee shall make himself available for interviews, depositions and testimony relating to any said Inventions and Developments. These obligations shall survive the termination of Employee's employment with Employer, provided that Employer shall compensate Employee at a reasonable rate after such termination for time actually spent by Employee at Employer's requests on such assistance. In the event Employer is unable for any reason whatsoever to secure Employee's signature to any document reasonably necessary or appropriate for any of the foregoing purposes including, but not limited to, renewals, extensions, continuations, divisions or continuations in part, in a timely manner, Employee irrevocably designates and appoints Employer and its duly authorized officers and agents as his agents and attorneys-in-fact to act for Employee and on his behalf, but only for purposes of executing and filing any such document and doing all other lawfully permitted acts to accomplish the foregoing purposes with the same legal force and effect as if executed by Employee.
Cooperation with Employer
 
D. . Employee shall completely identify on attached hereto, without disclosing any trade secret or other proprietary and confidential information, all Inventions and Developments made by Employee prior to his employment with Employer or prior to execution of this Agreement in which Employee has an ownership interest and which is not the subject matter of an issued patent or a printed publication at the time Employee executes this Agreement.
Pre-employment Inventions
Exhibit B
E. . Employee shall promptly and completely disclose in writing to Employer's law department all Company-Related Inventions and Developments made by Employee during the one (1) year immediately following Employee's termination of employment, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, for the purposes of determining Employer's rights in each such invention. It will be presumed that Company-Related Inventions and Developments conceived by Employee which are reduced to practice within one (1) year after termination of Employee's employment, whether voluntary or involuntary, were conceived during the term of Employee's employment with Employer unless Employee is able to establish a later conception date by clear and convincing evidence.
Disclosure of Inventions after Termination
A. .
Obligations of Employer
1. . Employer shall provide Employee, during his employment, with valuable Proprietary and Confidential Information for the purpose of assisting Employee in the performance of his job requirements and responsibilities with Employer. In addition, Employer shall provide to Employee, during his employment, with the equipment, materials and facilities necessary to assist Employee in the performance of his job requirements and responsibilities with Employer.
Proprietary and Confidential Information
2. . Employer shall provide Employee with any and all specialized training necessary to assist Employee in the performance of his job requirements and responsibilities with Employer including, but not limited to, training relating to the Employer Group's cost structures, methods of operation, the Employer Group's products and marketing techniques, the Employer Group's business strategies, plans and models.
Training
B. .
Obligations of Employee
1. . Both during and after the termination of employment, whether such termination is voluntary or involuntary, Employee shall keep in confidence and trust all Proprietary and Confidential Information. Both during and after the termination of employment, whether such termination is voluntary or involuntary, Employee shall not use or disclose Proprietary or Confidential Information without the written consent of Employer, except as may be necessary in the ordinary course of performing his duties to Employer.
Nondisclosure of Proprietary and Confidential Information
2. . All documents and tangible things (whether written or electronic) embodying or containing Proprietary and Confidential Information are the Employer Group's exclusive property. Employee shall be
Return of Proprietary and Confidential Information
 
provided with or given access to such Proprietary and Confidential Information solely for performing his duties of employment with Employer. Employee shall protect the confidentiality of their content and shall return all such Proprietary and Confidential Information, including all copies, facsimiles and specimens of them in any tangible or electronic forms in Employee's possession, custody or control to Employer before leaving the employment of Employer for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary.
3. . Employee shall not disclose or use during his employment with Employer any proprietary and confidential information which Employee has acquired as a result of any previous employment or under a contractual obligation of confidentiality before his employment with Employer and, furthermore, Employee shall not bring to the premises of Employer any copies or other tangible embodiments of any such proprietary and confidential information.
Confidential Information from Previous Employment
4. . Employee shall not engage in outside employment or other activities in the course of which Employee would use or might be tempted or induced to use Proprietary and Confidential Information in other than the Employer Group's own interest.
Conflict of Interest
5. .
Agreement Not to Compete/Solicit
a. . Employee agrees that during the Covenant Period (as defined below), he shall not, without Employer's written consent, directly or indirectly, for himself or on behalf of or in conjunction with any other person, persons, company, partnership, corporation or business venture of any nature:
Non-Compete
(i) engage, as an officer, director, shareholder, owner, partner, joint venturer or in a managerial capacity, whether as an employee, independent contractor, consultant, advisor or sales representative, in any business or industry in which the Employer Group is engaged, within the United States, Canada or any other country in which the Employer Group conducts business, including any territory serviced by the Employer Group, or in which the Employer Group is actively pursuing business opportunities (the "");
Territory
(ii) call upon any person or entity which is, at that time, or which has been, within one (1) year prior to that time, a customer of the Employer Group, or a prospective customer that has been actively solicited by the Employer Group, within the Territory for the purpose of soliciting or selling products or services in competition with the Employer Group; or
(iii) call upon any prospective acquisition candidate, on Employee's own behalf or on behalf of any competitor, which candidate was, to Employee's actual knowledge after due inquiry, either called upon by the Employer Group or for which the Employer Group made an acquisition analysis for the purpose of acquiring such entity.
b. . Employee agrees that during the Covenant Period, he shall not, without Employer's written consent, employ, hire, solicit, induce or identify for employment or attempt to employ, hire, solicit, induce or identify for employment, directly or indirectly, any employee(s) of the Employer Group to leave his or her employment and become an employee, consultant or representative of any other entity including, but not limited to, Employee's new employer, if any.
Non-Solicitation
 
c. . The provisions of Section VI.B.5 of this Agreement shall not prevent Employee from acquiring or holding publicly traded stock or other public securities of a competing company, so long as Employee's ownership does not exceed two percent (2%) of the outstanding securities of such company.
Publicly Traded Securities
d. . For a period of two (2) years after the termination of Employee's employment with Employer, whether voluntary or involuntary, Employee agrees to inform each new employer, prior to accepting employment, of the existence of this Agreement and provide that employer with a copy of this Agreement.
Agreement to Inform Subsequent Employers
e. . Employee acknowledges that the restrictions set forth in Section VI.B.5 of this Agreement are intended to protect the Employer Group's legitimate business interests and its Proprietary and Confidential Information and established relationships and good will. Employee acknowledges that the time, geographic and scope of activity limitations set forth herein are reasonable and necessary to protect the Employer Group's legitimate business interests. However, if in any judicial proceeding, a court shall refuse to enforce this Agreement as written, whether because the time limitation is too long or because the restrictions contained herein are more extensive (whether as to geographic area, scope of activity or otherwise) than is necessary to protect the legitimate business interests of the Employer Group, it is expressly understood and agreed between the parties hereto that this Agreement is deemed modified to the extent necessary to permit this Agreement to be enforced in any such proceedings.
Reasonableness of Restrictions
f. . Employee acknowledges that (1) in the event of the termination of his employment with Employer (whether voluntary or involuntary), Employee's knowledge, experience and capabilities are such that Employee can obtain employment in business activities which are of a different and non-competing nature than those performed in the course of his employment with Employer or in the geographic areas outside of the Territory and (2) the enforcement of a remedy hereunder including, but not limited to, injunctive relief, will not prevent Employee from earning a reasonable livelihood.
Ability to Obtain Other Employment
g. . Employee acknowledges that compliance with Section VI.B of this Agreement is necessary to protect the good will and other legitimate business interests of the Employer Group and that a breach of any or all of these provisions will give rise to irreparable and continuing injury to the Employer Group that is not adequately compensable in monetary damages or at law. Accordingly, Employee agrees that Employer, its successors and assigns, may obtain injunctive relief against the breach or threatened breach of any or all of these provisions, in addition to any other legal or equitable remedies which may be available to the Employer Group at law or in equity or under this Agreement. Because Employee further acknowledges that it would be difficult to measure any damages caused to the Employer Group that might result from any breach by Employee of any promises set forth in this Agreement, Employee agrees that Employer shall be entitled to an injunction or other appropriate equitable relief to restrain any such breach without showing or proving any actual damage to the Employer Group, as well as to be relieved of any obligation to provide further payment or benefits to Employee or Employee's dependents.
Injunctive Relief
 
h. . If Employee violates and/or breaches this Agreement, Employer shall be entitled to an accounting and repayment of all lost profits, compensation, commissions, remuneration or benefits that Employee directly or indirectly has realized or may realize as a result of any such violation or breach. Employer shall also be entitled to recover for all lost sales, profits, commissions, good will and customers caused by Employee's improper acts, in addition to and not in limitation of any injunctive relief or other rights or remedies that Employer is or may be entitled to at law or in equity or under this Agreement.
Other Remedies
i. . Employee acknowledges that should it become necessary for Employer to file suit to enforce the provisions contained herein, and any court of competent jurisdiction awards the Employer Group any damages and/or an injunction due to the acts of Employee, then Employer shall be entitled to recover its reasonable costs incurred in conducting the suit including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses.
Costs
j. . For purposes of this Section VI.B.5, the Covenant Period shall mean the period from and during the Term of this Agreement and ending on the date that is two (2) years after Employee's employment with Employer terminates, whether voluntary or involuntary; provided, however, that if Employer delivers to Employee a Renewal Termination Notice, as provided in Section III.B, and Employee remains employed with Employer through the expiration of the Term (and this Agreement), then the Covenant Period shall end on the date that is one (1) year after the date of such Renewal Termination Notice. For purposes of clarity, in the event that Employee's employment with Employer terminates for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary, after Employee receives a Renewal Termination Notice and before the end of the Term, the Covenant Period shall end on the date that is two (2) years after the termination of Employee's employment.
Covenant Period
6. . Employee acknowledges and agrees that both during and after his employment with Employer, whether such termination is voluntary or involuntary, Employee shall not disparage, denigrate or comment negatively upon, either orally or in writing, the Employer Group or any of their respective officers, directors, employees or representatives, to or in the presence of any person or entity unless compelled to act by a valid subpoena or other legal mandate; provided, however, if Employee receives such a valid subpoena or legal mandate, he shall provide Employer with written notice of the same at least five (5) business days prior to the date on which Employee is required to make the disclosure.
Nondisparagement
EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYEE HEREBY VOLUNTARILY, KNOWINGLY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVE ANY AND ALL RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY TO ALL CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, AS WELL AS TO ALL CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF EMPLOYEE'S EMPLOYMENT WITH EMPLOYER OR TERMINATION THEREFROM INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO:
 
A. Any and all claims and causes of action arising under contract, tort or other common law including, without limitation, breach of contract, fraud, estoppel, misrepresentation, express or implied duties of good faith and fair dealing, wrongful discharge, discrimination, retaliation, harassment, negligence, gross negligence, false imprisonment, assault and battery, conspiracy, intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress, slander, libel, defamation and invasion of privacy;
B. Any and all claims and causes of action arising under any federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance, including, without limitation, claims arising under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act and all corresponding state laws; and
C. Any and all claims and causes of action for wages, employee benefits, vacation pay, severance pay, pension or profit sharing benefits, health or welfare benefits, bonus compensation, commissions, deferred compensation or other remuneration, employment benefits or compensation, past or future loss of pay or benefits or expenses.
Employer and Employee acknowledge and agree that this Agreement shall be interpreted, governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas, without regard to the conflict of laws principles or rules thereof.
Employer and Employee irrevocably and unconditionally agree that any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, as well as to all claims arising out of Employee's employment with Employer or termination therefrom, shall be brought in either the Federal District Court for the Southern District of TexasHouston Division or in a judicial district court of Harris County, Texas (hereinafter referred to as the ""). In that regard, Employer and Employee waive, to the fullest extent allowed, any objection that Employer or Employee may have to the venue of any such proceeding being brought in the Texas Courts, and any claim that any such action or proceeding brought in the Texas Courts has been brought in an inconvenient forum. In addition, Employer and Employee irrevocably and unconditionally submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Texas Courts in any such suit, action or proceeding. Employer and Employee acknowledge and agree that a judgment in any suit, action or proceeding brought in the Texas Courts shall be conclusive and binding on each and may be enforced in any other courts to whose jurisdiction Employer or Employee is or may be subject to, by suit upon such judgment.
Texas Courts
In the event Employee obtains a final judgment in his favor by a court of competent jurisdiction with respect to any dispute regarding Employer's failure to pay Employee on a timely basis the amounts to which he is entitled under this Agreement or as a result of any other breach of this Agreement by Employer, Employer shall pay all amounts and damages to which Employee may be entitled as a result of such breach, including interest thereon and all reasonable legal fees and expense and other costs incurred by Employee to enforce Employee's rights hereunder.
 
A. . By executing this Agreement, Employee forever gives the Employer Group, its successors, assigns, licensees and any other designees, the absolute right and permission, throughout the world: (1) to copyright (and to renew and extend any copyright), use, reuse, publish and republish photographic portraits and pictures, motion or still, of Employee, or in which Employee may be included, in whole or in part, or composite or distorted character in any form, whether heretofore taken or to be taken in the future, in conjunction with Employee's own or a fictitious name or title (which Employee now has or may have in the future), or reproductions thereof, in color or otherwise, made through any media at any place, for art, advertising, trade or any other purpose whatsoever; and (2) to record, reproduce, amplify, simulate, "double" and/or "dub" Employee's voice and transmit the same by any mechanical or electronic means, for any purpose whatsoever. Employee further consents to the use of any printed matter giving Employee, or not giving Employee, a credit, in the sole discretion of any of the aforementioned parties to whom this authorization and release is given, in conjunction therewith. Employee waives any right he may have to inspect and/or approve the finished product or the advertising copy or printed matter that may be used in connection therewith, or the use to which it may be applied.
Publicity Release
B. . Employer may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such federal, state, local, F.I.C.A., foreign or other taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
Withholding
C. . All notices, consents, requests, instructions, approvals and other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be addressed as follows:
Notices
 
2800 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 2600
Houston, Texas 77056
Attention: General Counsel
 
2800 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 2600
Houston, Texas 77056
Notice shall be deemed given and effective: (1) upon receipt, if delivered personally; (2) three (3) days after it has been deposited in the U.S. mail, addressed as required above, and sent via registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid; or (3) the next business day after it has been sent via a recognized overnight courier. Employer and/or Employee may change the address for notice purposes by notifying the other of such change in accordance with this Section IX.C.
D. . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, inoperative or unenforceable for any reason, it shall be modified rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties hereto to the maximum extent possible. In any event, if any provision this Agreement is held to be invalid, inoperative or unenforceable for any reason, the other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and operative and, so far as is reasonable and possible, effect shall be given to the intent manifested by the provision or provisions held invalid or inoperative.
Severability
 
E. . The obligations of the parties set forth in this Agreement that by their terms extend beyond or survive the termination of this Agreement, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, will not be affected or diminished in any way by the termination of this Agreement.
Survival of Certain Obligations
F. . The headings contained in this Agreement are for purposes of reference and convenience only and are not intended in any way to describe, interpret, define or limit the extent or intent of this Agreement.
Headings
G. . This Agreement supersedes any other agreements, written or oral, between the Employer Group and Employee, and Employee has no oral representations, understandings or agreements with the Employer Group or any of their respective officers, directors or representatives covering the same subject matter as this Agreement, including, but not limited to, that certain Employment Agreement between Quanta and Employee effective March 8, 2000, and as thereafter amended. This written Agreement is the final, complete and exclusive statement and expression of the agreement between Employer and Employee and of all the terms of this Agreement. This Agreement cannot be modified, varied, contradicted or supplement by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous oral or written agreements.
Entire Agreement
H. . Neither this Agreement nor any term hereof may be modified or amended except by written instrument signed by a duly authorized officer of Employer and by Employee. No term of this Agreement may be waived other than by written instrument signed by the party waiving the benefit of such term. Any such waiver shall constitute a waiver only with respect to the specific matter described in such written instrument and shall in no way impair the rights of the party granting such waiver in any other respect or at any other time. Neither the waiver by Employer or Employee of a breach of or a default under any of the provisions of this Agreement, nor the failure by either Employer or Employee, on one or more occasions, to enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement or to exercise any right or privilege hereunder, shall be construed as a waiver of any other breach or default of a similar nature, or as a waiver of any such provisions, rights or privileges hereunder.
Amendment/Waiver
I. . This Agreement is personal to the parties and neither party may assign any rights or obligations under the same without the prior written consent of the other; provided, however, that in the event of a sale of the Employer Group's business to a third party (whether by sale of all or a majority of the Employer Group's issued and outstanding equity securities, by a merger or reorganization, or by a sale of all or substantially of the Employer Group's assets), then this Agreement may be assigned by Employer to such third party purchaser without the prior written consent of Employee, provided that such third party purchaser agrees to assume and abide by all of Employer's obligations set forth in this Agreement and provides written notice thereof to Employee. In the event of any such assignment, all references to "Quanta" hereunder shall mean the assignee, and to the extent any entity becomes the successor to Quanta, all obligations hereunder shall be the obligations of the successor and "Quanta" mean the successor entity.
Assignment
 
J. . This Agreement may be executed simultaneously in two (2) or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above, but to be effective as of the Effective Date.
 
 
 
This Severance Agreement and Release of All Claims (the "Agreement") is made and entered into by and between Derrick A. Jensen (hereinafter referred to as the "Employee") and Quanta Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation, (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Company").
The purpose of this Agreement is to arrange a settlement of the Employee's employment with the Company that is satisfactory both to the Company and to the Employee. By signing this Agreement, the Company and the Employee agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Employee expressly represents and agrees that he has been advised that, by entering into this Agreement, he is waiving all claims that he may have against the Company arising under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, which have arisen on or before the date of execution of this Agreement.
 
Notwithstanding the preceding provision or any other provision of the Agreement, Employee's agreement to the provisions under Section 6, or the paragraph immediately above this paragraph, is not intended to prohibit Employee from bringing an action to challenge the validity of the release of claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, as amended, or the Older Worker's Benefit Protection Act, as amended. The Employee further understands and agrees that if he or someone acting on his behalf files, or causes to be filed, any such claim, charge, complaint, or action against the Released Parties, he expressly waives any right to recover any damages or other relief, whatsoever, from the Released Parties including costs and attorneys' fees.
This Agreement is not intended to interfere with Employee's right to file a charge with an administrative agency in connection with any claim Employee believes he may have against any of the Released Parties. However, by executing this Agreement, Employee hereby waives the right to recover, and agrees not to seek any damages, remedies or other relief for himself personally in any proceeding he may bring before such agency or in any proceeding brought by such agency, or any other person, on his behalf. This Agreement is also not intended to apply to claims for accrued benefits (other than severance-type benefits) under any benefit plan of the Released Parties pursuant to the terms of any such plan.
Employee understands that he is not releasing rights under this Agreement, that any claims that cannot be lawfully waived are excluded from this Agreement and that by executing this Agreement he is not waiving any such claims. Likewise, Employee is not releasing any rights or claims that may arise after the date on which he signs this Agreement. In addition, while this Agreement requires Employee to waive any and all claims against the Released Parties arising under workers' compensation laws (e.g., claims of retaliation for filing a workers' compensation claim), it is not intended to prohibit Employee from filing in good faith for and from receiving any workers' compensation benefits from Released Parties' workers' compensation carrier for compensable injuries incurred during his employment. Accordingly, pursuit of any such workers' compensation benefits with Released Parties' workers' compensation carrier or third-party administrator will not be considered a violation of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Employee further acknowledges and agrees that the Employee is obligated to not, at any time, disclose or otherwise make available to any person, company or other party Confidential Information or trade secrets of the Company, its parent, associated companies, affiliates, and subsidiaries This Agreement shall not limit any obligations the Employee has under any applicable federal or state law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE STATE OF             
                                          
COUNTY OF                  
The foregoing instrument was SWORN TO AND SUBSCRIBED BEFORE ME BY DERRICK A. JENSEN AND GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND SEAL OF OFFICE on this the             day of             , A.D., 20    .
 
My commission expires:             
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
12-08
 
 Apr. 2, 2012  Quanta Services, Inc. (NYSE: PWR) today announced that Chief Financial Officer James H. Haddox will assume the role of Executive Vice President of the company on May 17, 2012 and that Derrick A. Jensen, Senior Vice President  Finance and Administration and Chief Accounting Officer, will succeed Haddox as Chief Financial Officer. Jensen will also continue to serve as the company's principal accounting officer.
HOUSTON
Haddox, 63, will remain actively involved with the company as Executive Vice President, maintaining insurance, bonding and banking relationships and working with the executive team on strategic acquisitions, investments, international expansion and the long-term direction of the company.
"Quanta is fortunate to have extraordinary talent and depth among its senior management team, and we are pleased to announce this next step in the leadership development of the company," said Jim O'Neil, President and Chief Executive Officer of Quanta Services. "James has been a member of Quanta's executive management team since its inception and has been integral to the company's achievements over the years. I also have tremendous respect for Derrick's abilities and confidence in his leadership. He has held financial and accounting roles of increasing responsibility and authority at Quanta for over fourteen years. I'd like to thank James and congratulate Derrick, and I look forward to continuing to work with them both."
"Derrick has demonstrated tremendous talent during his long tenure with Quanta," said Haddox. "This is the optimum time for this transition given the company's financial position and the outlook for our business. It has been my privilege to serve as Quanta's CFO and I look forward to continuing to serve the company as Executive Vice President."
Jensen, 41, has served as Quanta's Senior Vice President  Finance and Administration and Chief Accounting Officer since March 2011. He previously served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of the company from March 1999 to March 2011, and as Quanta's Controller from December 1997 until March 2009.
"I am grateful for the opportunity to serve Quanta's employees and stakeholders," said Jensen. "Under James' leadership as CFO, the company has had remarkable growth and success. We look forward to extending our market leadership in the years to come and delivering sustained profitable growth."
About Quanta Services:
Quanta Services is a leading specialized contracting services company, delivering infrastructure solutions for the electric power, natural gas and pipeline and telecommunication industries. The company's comprehensive services include designing, installing, repairing and maintaining network infrastructure nationwide. Additionally, Quanta licenses point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications infrastructure in select markets and offers related design, procurement, construction and maintenance services. With operations throughout North America and in select international markets, Quanta has the manpower, resources and expertise to complete projects that are local, regional, national or international in scope.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release (and oral statements regarding the subject matter of this release) contains forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the "safe harbor" from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, market leadership, opportunities for profitable growth, and Quanta's plans and strategies, as well as statements reflecting expectations, intentions, assumptions or beliefs about future events, and other statements that do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Although Quanta's management believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. These statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions and by a variety of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict or beyond our control, including, among others, trends and growth opportunities in relevant markets; the potential to incur losses with respect to our operations; the ability to generate internal growth; the ability to successfully identify and complete acquisitions; the ability to effectively compete for new projects and market share; risks associated with operating in international markets; potential liabilities associated with multiemployer pension plans; unexpected costs or liabilities that may arise from lawsuits or indemnity claims related to the services Quanta performs; liabilities for claims that are self-insured; and the ability to capitalize on business opportunities and other factors affecting Quanta's business generally, including risks detailed in Quanta's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and any other documents of Quanta filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Should one or more of these risks materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of this date. Quanta does not undertake and expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For a discussion of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, investors are urged to refer to Quanta's documents filed with the SEC that are available through the company's website at or through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval System (EDGAR) at .
www.quantaservices.com
www.sec.gov


