FILE:SRCL/SRCL-8K-20060314102842.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01    Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On February 3, 2006, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors set the base salaries and bonus targets of our five executive officers for 2006 and also decided the cash bonuses and stock option grants to be paid or awarded to our executive officers for 2005.
Salaries and Target Cash Bonuses for 2006
In keeping with our philosophy that the compensation of our executive officers should be determined largely by their individual and company performance and that their base salaries should represent a relatively small component of their total compensation, the Committee did not change our executive officers' base salaries for 2006. They remain the base salaries originally set in April 2003 (or in the case of Messrs. Foss and Sacranie, in February and May 2003, respectively, upon their joining us).
Our executive officers' base salaries and target cash bonuses for 2006 are as follows:
 
Cash Bonuses and Stock Options for 2005
The Committee also decided the cash bonuses payable to our executive officers and the stock options to be granted to them for 2005. These cash bonuses and stock options are as follows:
 
 
 
Each of our executive officers is eligible for a target cash bonus equal to a percentage of his base salary, with a maximum possible bonus equal to 1.5 times his target percentage. For 2005, the Compensation Committee had set target bonuses for Messrs. Miller, Kogler, ten Brink, Foss and Sacranie at 110%, 60%, 60%, 55% and 55%, respectively, of their respective base salaries of $297,052, $222,789, $222,789, $200,000 and $175,000.
In deciding on the cash bonuses and stock option grants to our executive officers for their performance during 2005, the Committee measured our EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes depreciation and amortization) for the year in relation to previously agreed measurable goals to determine each officer's preliminary cash bonus and stock option grant. The Committee then adjusted these preliminary amounts to take into account our success in meeting our other performance goals for the year and to reflect the Committee's assessment of the individual officer's performance, initiative, contribution to our success and total compensation package.
The cash bonuses to our executive officers for 2005 were paid on February 10, 2006. The stock options granted to our executive officers for 2005 were granted under either our 2005 Incentive Stock Plan or our 1997 Stock Option Plan on February 3, 2006, at an exercise price per share of $59.08, which was that day's closing price of a share of our common stock. Each option has a 10-year term and vests over a five-year period at the rate of 20% of the option shares on each of the first five anniversaries of the option grant date. Our executive officers duly reported their stock option grants on Form 4s filed on February 6, 2006.
Bonus Conversion Plans for 2005 and 2006
Under our bonus conversion plan for 2005, executive officers (and other officers and managers) could irrevocably elect, in advance of any bonus award, to forego some portion or all of any bonus otherwise payable and receive instead an immediately vested stock option at an exercise price per share equal to the closing price of a share of our common stock on the bonus award date. The number of shares for which an option was granted was determined by dividing the product of two-and- one-half times the amount of the cash bonus that the participating executive officer elected to forego by the average closing price of our common stock during 2005 (i.e., the year for which the bonus was payable).
Pursuant to this plan and in accordance with their prior elections, Messrs. Miller and ten Brink elected to forego $160,787 and $28,190 of their respective gross cash bonuses for 2005 of $459,391 and $187,933, receiving instead stock options for 7,594 and 1,331 shares, respectively. These stock options were granted under our 1997 Stock Option Plan on February 3, 2006, at an exercise price per share of $59.08, which was that day's closing price of a share of our common stock. Each option has a 10-year term and, as noted, was immediately vested. Messrs. Miller and ten Brink duly reported their stock option grants on Form 4s filed on February 6, 2006.
At the Compensation Committee's meeting on February 3, 2006, the Committee approved our bonus conversion plan for 2006, which is identical to our bonus conversion plan for 2005. Copies of both plans are filed with this report.
 
Item 9.01  Financial States and Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 14, 2006.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Program Year 2005
Program Objectives
 
Program Overview
The Stock Option Replacement Program provides you an opportunity to defer current taxation into the future and to increase your ownership in Stericycle. This Program allows you to receive Stericycle non-qualified stock options in lieu of all or a portion of any cash bonus that Stericycle otherwise would pay you. If you elect to participate, you will receive an option to purchase $2.50 or more worth of Stericycle common stock for every $1 of your bonus that you elect to forego. The value of the Stericycle common stock is the fair market value at the date of the grant, which is the option strike price. For example, if you elect to forego $10,000 of your bonus under this Program, you will receive options to purchase, at the option strike price, a number of shares equal to $25,000 divided by the conversion price (the average closing price for the year) or, if lower, the fair market value at the date of the grant.
The Stock Option Replacement Program provides participants with an excellent opportunity to accumulate wealth if Stericycle stock performs well. A stock investment includes a potential for significant gain as well as an investment risk. The program is designed to provide a $2.50 for $1 or greater replacement ratio or premium for risk because if you participate you will be trading potentially cash for uncertain investment gain. With the $2.50 for $1 or greater replacement ratio, your potential for gain depends on whether Stericycle stock performs well. However, your risk is that Stericycle stock may not appreciate and you may not recover the amount of your cash bonus given up or match the earnings you could have received under an alternative investment.
Enrollment
ENCLOSED ELECTION FORM MUST BE COMPLETED AND RETURNED AS INDICATED ON THE FORM. THIS FORM MUST BE COMPLETED AND RETURNED EVEN IF YOU ELECT NOT TO PARTICIPATE.
Program Design
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event of death, disability, resignation, retirement, or other termination of employment (other than termination for cause), the stock option remains exercisable until the end of the 10-year option term.
Any stock options you elect to receive will be issued under any available Stericycle Stock Option Plan and the terms of that respective Plan and related Option Agreement will apply to your stock option.

Exhibit 10.2
Program Year 2006
Program Objectives
 
Program Overview
The Stock Option Replacement Program provides you an opportunity to defer current taxation into the future and to increase your ownership in Stericycle. This Program allows you to receive Stericycle non-qualified stock options in lieu of all or a portion of any cash bonus that Stericycle otherwise would pay you. If you elect to participate, you will receive an option to purchase $2.50 or more worth of Stericycle common stock for every $1 of your bonus that you elect to forego. The value of the Stericycle common stock is the fair market value at the date of the grant, which is the option strike price. For example, if you elect to forego $10,000 of your bonus under this Program, you will receive options to purchase, at the option strike price, a number of shares equal to $25,000 divided by the conversion price (the average closing price for the year) or, if lower, the fair market value at the date of the grant.
The Stock Option Replacement Program provides participants with an excellent opportunity to accumulate wealth if Stericycle stock performs well. A stock investment includes a potential for significant gain as well as an investment risk. The program is designed to provide a $2.50 for $1 or greater replacement ratio or premium for risk because if you participate you will be trading potentially cash for uncertain investment gain. With the $2.50 for $1 or greater replacement ratio, your potential for gain depends on whether Stericycle stock performs well. However, your risk is that Stericycle stock may not appreciate and you may not recover the amount of your cash bonus given up or match the earnings you could have received under an alternative investment.
Enrollment
ENCLOSED ELECTION FORM MUST BE COMPLETED AND RETURNED AS INDICATED ON THE FORM. THIS FORM MUST BE COMPLETED AND RETURNED EVEN IF YOU ELECT NOT TO PARTICIPATE.
Program Design
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event of death, disability, resignation, retirement, or other termination of employment (other than termination for cause), the stock option remains exercisable until the end of the 10-year option term.
Any stock options you elect to receive will be issued under any available Stericycle Stock Option Plan and the terms of that respective Plan and related Option Agreement will apply to your stock option.


