FILE:SRCL/SRCL-8K-20060303122837.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
On February 27, 2006, Stericycle International, LLC, a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of the registrant, Stericycle, Inc. (the "Company"), entered into and closed an agreement to purchase all of the outstanding shares of The Sterile Technologies Group Limited ("STG"), an Irish company providing medical waste management services in Ireland, England, Scotland and Wales. The purchase price for the STG shares was approximately $131 million, of which $114 million was paid in cash and $17 million was paid by the assumption of debt.
The sellers of the STG shares were Yeoman International Holdings S.A., Yeoman Investments S.A., The Rogers Group Waste Limited, Desmond Rogers, Niall Wall and William Blyde.
A copy of the share purchase agreement is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.1. A copy of the press release that the Company issued on February 27, 2006 is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial States and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
In accordance with Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K, this exhibit omits Schedule 5, Part II, and Schedule 9, . The Company will furnish copies of these schedules to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission supplementally upon request.
The Proforma Completion Accounts Schedule
Management Bonus Amounts
99.1 Press release issued February 27, 2006.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 3, 2006.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
THIS AGREEMENT is made on 27 February 2006
BETWEEN:
 
RECITALS
 
 
 
 
IT IS AGREED that in consideration of the mutual covenants, conditions, agreements, warranties and payments set out or as provided for in this Agreement, the parties respectively covenant with each other in the terms set out in this Agreement.
 
In this Agreement the following expressions shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the following meanings:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the Schedules to this Agreement shall form part of this Agreement.
 
The headings and captions to the Sections, Clauses and Schedules in this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not be considered a part of or affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
 
The Purchaser shall be entitled to rely on any communication, agreement or other notice or document evidenced in writing that has been given, made or sent by the Vendors' Representative as being a communication, agreement or notification on behalf of each of the Vendors and the Vendors' Representative shall be entitled to bind each of
 
the Vendors in respect of the matters referred to in this Agreement as being capable of being done or agreed by him or which it is contemplated be done by him hereunder. Each of the Vendors hereby agrees that the Purchaser shall not be bound to enquire as to the authority or good faith of the Vendors' Representative in respect of any matter referred to in this Agreement as being capable of being done or agreed by the Vendors' Representative and the Vendors hereby waive any rights that they may have against the Purchaser in respect of its dealings with the Vendors' Representative.
 
This Agreement shall in all respects (including the formation thereof and performance thereunder) be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Ireland. The parties to this Agreement agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of Ireland in relation to any disputes or proceedings arising out of or in connection with this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The parties shall use their respective reasonable endeavours to procure the determination of the Actual Net Debt in accordance with Schedule 5.
 
The Consideration shall be adjusted following Completion as follows:
 
 
 
in each case such amounts to be paid to the Ordinary Shareholders pro-rata according to their respective Ordinary Pro-Rata Proportions.
 
 
 
 
 
For the avoidance, payment of all of the Consideration due in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.0 shall constitute a full discharge by the Purchaser of all amounts due by it to the Vendors in respect of the Shares and it shall have no obligation to pay to the Vendors (or any of them) and the Vendors hereby waive in favour of the Purchaser and the Company any amount in respect of dividends accrued (whether declared or not) in respect of any of the Shares.
 
The Vendors hereby severally (on the basis provided for in Clause 3.3(d)), and not jointly, warrant to the Purchaser in relation to the Company in accordance with the terms set out in Schedule 2 subject to:
 
 
 
 
The Warranties shall not in any respect be extinguished or affected by Completion. Subject to the provisions of Clause 6.2, the benefit of the Warranties and the Tax Covenant are personal to the Purchaser and may not be assigned in whole or in part by the Purchaser.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Vendors shall not be liable for any Warranty Claim:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in each above case having retrospective effect;
 
 
 
Provided that the exclusions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Clause 3.4 shall not apply in respect of any Claim(s) pursuant to the warranties contained in paragraphs 19 and 50 of Part IX of Schedule 2 (Environment) and paragraph 50 of Part XIV of Schedule 2 (Environmental Report) to the extent that they relate to the Sites.
 
The limitations set out in this Section 3.0 shall not apply in respect of any Claim made against any Vendor to the extent that such Claim arises from any fraudulent act or fraudulent omission of that Vendor.
 
If any claim relates to a liability which, at the time that such Claim is notified to the Vendors' Representative is contingent only, the Vendors shall not be under any obligation to make any payment to the Purchaser in respect thereof unless and until such time as the contingent liability ceases to be contingent and becomes actual.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other than any Claim by the Purchaser's Solicitors or the Vendors' Solicitors pursuant to Schedule 6, no Claim shall be actionable by any person other than the Purchaser (or its Permitted Assignee) and no other party shall be entitled to make any Claim or take any action whatsoever against the Vendor under or arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or the Tax Covenant.
 
A breach of the Warranties which is capable of remedy shall not entitle the Purchaser to compensation unless the Vendors' Representative is given written notice of such breach within thirty days after the Purchaser or any Group Company becomes aware of it and such breach is not remedied within thirty days after the date on which such notice is served on the Vendors.
 
 
 
 
The Purchaser hereby waives and relinquishes any right of set-off or counterclaim, deduction or retention, which the Purchaser might otherwise have in respect of any Claim, out of any payments which the Purchaser or any Group Company may be obliged to make (or procure to be made) to the Vendors pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise save for any rights of set-off provided for in Schedule 6.
 
The only Warranties which shall apply in relation to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Purchaser hereby represents to the Vendors, for itself and each other member of the Purchaser's Group, (upon which representation the Vendors are relying in entering into this Agreement) that neither the Purchaser nor any member of the Purchaser's Group have knowledge of any matter or thing as at the date of this Agreement which is known to be inconsistent with any of the Warranties or entitles the Purchaser to make a claim under the Tax Covenant and neither the Purchaser nor any member of the Purchaser's Group nor any Group Companies nor any of their representatives or advisers are presently engaged in the preparation of any Claim.
 
In the event of any Claim succeeding and any payment being made by the Vendors pursuant thereto:
 
 
 
The Purchaser hereby warrants to each of the Vendors in accordance with the terms set out in Schedule 7.
 
The Vendors shall severally (on the basis provided for in Clause 3.3(d)) indemnify the Purchaser in full for and against any claims, costs, damages, expenses, losses or liabilities whatsoever and howsoever arising incurred or suffered by any member of the Purchaser's Group or any Group Company including reasonable costs properly incurred by any member of the Purchaser's Group or any Group Company, in connection with any Unknown Claims provided that the provisions of Clauses 3.3.(c) and 3.4(d) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the provisions of this Clause 3.18 as if the references therein to "Warranty Claim", "Claim" or "Claims" refer to a claim pursuant to this Clause 3.18.
 
Sterile Technologies Group Limited is the sole legal and beneficial owner of the entire issued share capital of Sterile Technologies (Ireland) Limited free from Encumbrances and all such shares have been duly authorised and validly issued. In the event of any claim howsoever arising in relation to the issued share capital of Sterile Technologies (Ireland) Limited the Vendors shall severally (on the basis provided for in Clause 3.3(d)) indemnify the Purchaser in full for and against any claims, costs, damages, expenses, losses or liabilities whatsoever and howsoever arising, incurred or suffered by any member of the Purchaser's Group or any Group Company (including reasonable legal costs) provided that the provisions of Clause 3.3.(c) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the provisions of this Clause 3.19 as if the references therein to "Warranty Claim" or "Claim" refer to a claim pursuant to this Clause 3.19.
 
The Vendors hereby waive all pre-emption rights to which they may be entitled by virtue of the Articles of Association of the Company or otherwise and hereby authorise and require the Board to register in the name of the Purchaser or its designee, every transfer of Shares to the Purchaser or its designee pursuant to this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the Vendors hereby irrevocably waives all claims against any Group Company its agents, advisers, directors, members and employees (other than for salary properly accrued in the Completion Accounts, any bonuses due to the Executives and expenses properly incurred by them on behalf of such Group Company) which they (or any of them) may have outstanding prior to the date of this Agreement and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing none of the information supplied by any Group Company or its professional advisers prior to the date of this Agreement to any of the Vendors or their agents, representatives or advisers in connection with the Warranties or the Tax Covenant or the contents of the Disclosure Letter or otherwise in relation to the business or affairs of such Group Company shall be deemed a representation, warranty or guarantee of its accuracy by such Group Company to the Vendors and the Vendors waive any claim against such Group Company which they might otherwise have in respect of it.
 
Completion shall take place immediately after signature of this Agreement at the offices of the Vendors' Solicitor at Fitzwilton House, Wilton Place, Dublin 2, or at such other time, place and date as the parties hereto may agree in writing. Upon Completion the matters referred to in the following Clauses of this Section shall take place.
 
At Completion, the Vendors shall deliver to the Purchaser:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to due compliance with the provisions of the foregoing Clauses of this Section:-
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Vendors' Representative and the Purchaser shall consult together as to the terms of, timetable for and manner of publication of, any announcement to shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers or to a stock exchange or other authorities or to the media or otherwise which either may desire or be obliged to make regarding the subject matter of this Agreement. Save as may be agreed in writing between the parties or as may be required by law or by the requirements of any stock exchange or other regulatory body in relation the transactions contemplated in this Agreement, neither the Vendors nor the Purchaser nor their respective representatives shall make or authorise any announcement concerning the subject matter of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other than as expressly set out herein, no provision of this Agreement is intended for the benefit of any third party.
 
The provisions of this Agreement shall enure to the benefit of and be binding upon the respective successors and personal representations of the parties.
 
If any action or duty to be taken or performed under any of the provisions hereof would, apart from the provisions of this Clause, fall to be taken or performed on a day which is not a Business Day such action or duty shall be taken or performed on the Business Day next following such date.
 
 
 
 
All expenses incurred by or on behalf of each of the parties hereto, including all fees of agents, representatives, lawyers, accountants, environmental consultants and actuaries employed by any of them in connection with the negotiation, preparation or execution of this Agreement, shall be borne solely by the party who incurred the liability and the Group shall have no liability in respect of any such costs.
 
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the different parties on separate counterparts each of which when executed and delivered shall constitute an original, all such counterparts together constituting one and the same instrument. The expression "counterpart" shall include any executed copy of this Agreement transmitted by facsimile.
 
This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties hereto relating to the transactions provided for in this Agreement and supersedes all previous representations, arrangements, undertakings and agreements (if any) between such parties in respect of
 
such matters. Each of the parties to this Agreement acknowledges that in agreeing to enter into this Agreement it has not relied on any representation, warranty, undertaking, covenant or understanding other than the Warranties.
 
At the request and expense of the Purchaser, the Vendors shall execute and do all such documents, acts and things as may reasonably be required subsequent to Completion by the Purchaser for assuring to or vesting in the Purchaser (including its nominee or nominees) the legal and beneficial ownership of the Shares.
 
No modification of any provision of this Agreement shall be binding unless the same shall be evidenced in writing duly executed by or on behalf of each of the parties hereto.
 
By Hand, Post or Fax
 
 
 
 
or to such other postal address or fax number as any such party hereto may from time to time notify to the other parties hereto in writing in accordance with the provisions hereof.
 
 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt no notice on other communication required or permitted to be given or made under this Agreement shall be given or made by e-mail. Any notice or other communication sent by post shall be sent by prepaid registered post (if posted in Ireland), prepaid first class recorded delivery (if within the United Kingdom) or by prepaid airmail (if elsewhere).
 
 
 
 
6.12 Obligations Joint and Several
Each of the obligations of the Vendors hereunder shall be a several, and not a joint, obligation and to the extent that any such obligation involves the incurrence of a liability or expense, none of the Vendors shall be liable for more than its Pro-Rata Proportion of such liability or expense.
6.13 Partnership
This Agreement shall not operate so as to create a partnership or joint venture of any kind between the parties hereto or constitute (either) party as the agent to the other.
 
6.14 Survival of Obligations
The expiration or determination of this Agreement howsoever arising shall not affect such of the provisions hereof as are expressed to operate or have effect thereafter and shall be without prejudice to any right of action already accrued to either party in respect of any breach of this Agreement by the other party.
6.15 Waiver
A waiver by any party or parties of any breach of any of the terms, provisions or covenants of this Agreement or the acquiescence of any party or parties in any act (whether of commission or omission) which but for such acquiescence would be a breach as aforesaid, shall not constitute a general waiver of such term, provision or covenant or of any subsequent act contrary thereto. Any liability to any party hereto under the provisions of this Agreement may be released, compounded or compromised by such party in its absolute discretion as regards any party or parties under such liability without in any way prejudicing its rights against any other party or parties under the same or a like liability, whether joint and several or otherwise.
IN WITNESS whereof this Agreement has been entered into the day and year first herein written.
 
 
 
 
In each of the above formulae "C" = an amount equal to the Consideration as finally adjusted and determined pursuant to Clauses 2.3 and 2.4 of this Agreement.
 
 
Each of the Clauses contained in this Schedule shall be construed independently of the other Clauses in this Schedule and shall not be limited in any respect by the inclusion of other Clauses dealing with the same or similar subject matter or dealing more specifically with the subject matter of such Clause.
 
Any Warranty set out in this Schedule which refers to the knowledge, information, belief or awareness of the Vendors or any of them (or any of such terms or any combination thereof) shall be deemed to refer to matters within the actual knowledge of the Vendors after making reasonable enquiries of Neville Graver being a Group executive with regard to the subject matter of such warranties and the Vendors shall be deemed to have given the relevant warranty on that basis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by any of the Vendors where, in each case, such breach would materially and adversely affect its ability to enter into or perform its obligations under this Agreement and/or any the Tax Covenant.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No Group Company owns or has any interest of any nature whatsoever in any shares, debentures or other securities issued by any undertaking (other than another Group Company) or any partnership.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         (h)
 
 
Since the Accounts Date:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
So far as the Vendors are aware, no Group Company has received any written notice in the six months prior to the date of this Agreement to repay under any agreement relating to any debt which is repayable on demand or that it is in material default under the terms of any borrowing made by it.
 
No Group Company has received, or entered into any agreement for the payment to it of, any grant, subsidy, or similar contribution or payment from any governmental, quasi-governmental, regional, municipal or similar development authority or body.
 
The PwC financial due diligence report of even date herewith and addressed to the Purchaser contains, insofar as the Vendors are aware, no material inaccuracies.
 
Each Group Company owns or is entitled to use and enjoy all the rights and assets necessary for the conduct of its business substantially as carried on immediately prior to this Agreement.
 
There has been disclosed to the Purchaser in the Data Room details of the insurances maintained by or on behalf of each Group Company. There is no material claim outstanding under such policies of insurance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Internal IT Systems are either owned by, or licensed or leased to, the Group Companies. None of the Group Companies has, in the twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement, received a written notice from a third party alleging that a Group Company is in default under licences or leases relating to the Internal IT Systems.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that such customer will refuse to continue to deal or will only deal on materially different terms to the existing terms with such Group Company as a result of the change of control of the Company consequential upon Completion.
 
 
 
 
A Group Company is the legal and beneficial owner to each of the Properties and is in sole and undisputed occupation thereof and all original deeds and documents necessary to prove such title are in possession or under the control of a Group Company.
 
Each of the Properties is free from any mortgage, debenture, charge, rent charge or other encumbrance securing the repayment of monies.
 
 
 
 
No Group Company has entered into any agreement to acquire or dispose of any of the Properties.
 
No Group Company has received any notice, certificate or order under any of the Planning Acts in respect of any of the Properties since it acquired them which materially adversely restricts its use of such property.
 
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of this part, "shall mean material in the context of the Group taken as a whole.
material"
 
 
 
 
 
 
No Group Company has received written notice in the twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement of any investigation (pending or in progress) by, or on behalf of the office of the Director of Corporate Enforcement in Ireland or any other equivalent governmental body in another jurisdiction in respect of the affairs of any Group Company.
 
 
 
 
 
Materially complete particulars of all of the Group's employees as at 31 December 2005 their dates of commencement of employment and their terms and conditions of employment (including their remuneration and other benefits, privileges and concessions provided or which any Group Company is bound or has committed to provide) have been disclosed to the Purchaser in the Data Room.
,
 
There are not in existence any service agreements or other contracts of engagement with directors or employees of any Group Company which cannot be terminated by six months notice or less or without giving rise to any claim for damages or compensation (other than for the statutory redundancy payment or compensation for unfair or wrongful dismissal).
 
No liability has been incurred by any Group Company for breach of any contract of service or for statutory redundancy payment and no gratuitous payment has been made or promised by any Group Company in connection with the termination or proposed termination of the employment of any present or former director or employee in receipt of a salary at a basic rate in excess of 50,000 per annum ("Senior Employee").
 
Other than as disclosed in the Data Room:
 
 
 
 
No Group Company has in existence nor is any Group Company proposing to introduce any share incentive, share option or profit sharing scheme or arrangement for all or any part of its directors or employees.
 
At the date of this Agreement, no Senior Employee has given or has been given notice in writing terminating his employment with any Group Company.
 
Save as disclosed in the Data Room there is no term of employment for any Senior Employee which provides that the sale of a Group Company entitles the Senior Employee to treat the sale of the Group Company as a breach of contract or entitles him to any payment or benefit on such sale.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Group Company has filed on a timely basis with the appropriate Taxing Authorities all tax returns, statements, forms and reports for Tax, if any, (including, all elections, declarations, returns, disclosures, schedules, estimates and informational returns) that are required to be filed by, or with respect to, such Group Company on or before Completion. All such filings were prepared in the manner required by law, are true correct and complete in all material respects, and accurately reflect the facts regarding the income, business, assets, operations, activities, status and other matters of such Group Company. No such filings are currently being disputed by any Tax Authority.
 
Each Group Company has paid all Tax, if any, that has become due and payable in respect of all taxation years or other taxable periods (or portions thereof) that end before Completion except such Tax as is being contested in good faith and in respect of which adequate reserves have been provided in the Accounts.
 
All Tax which any Group Company is (or was) required by law to withhold or collect in connection with amounts paid or owing to any employee, contractor, creditor, member, shareholder or other third party has been duly withheld or collected, and has been timely paid over to the proper authorities to the extent due and payable.
 
No Group Company has been the subject of an audit or examination in relation to Tax by any Tax Authority since the Accounts Date.
 
No Group Company is presently appealing or contesting any Tax liability before any Tax Authority.
 
Each Group Company is registered for Tax purposes in each jurisdiction where it is required by law to be so registered. No written claim has ever been made by any Tax Authority in a jurisdiction where the Group Company does not file tax returns that the Company is or may be subject to taxation in that jurisdiction.
 
So far as the Vendors are aware, there are no liens with respect to Tax upon any of the properties or assets, real or personal, tangible or intangible of any Group Company (other than liens for Tax not yet due), or upon any of the Shares.
 
So far as the Vendors are aware, each Group Company is and has at all times in the last six years been resident in its country of incorporation for tax purposes and is not and has not at any time in that period been treated as resident in any other jurisdiction for any tax purpose (including any double taxation arrangement).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As far as the Vendors are aware, all healthcare waste treatment machinery which is currently operating on the Sites is operating in the ordinary and normal manner of such machinery having regard to the age of such machinery and usual wear and tear in the ordinary course.
 
The Environmental Due Diligence Report as prepared by MJ Carter Associates Limited dated 21 December 2005 and addressed to the Purchaser contains, insofar as the Vendors are aware, no material inaccuracies.
 
Irish Properties
 
 
 
Northern Ireland Properties
 
Scottish Properties
 
 
 
UK Properties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Irish Properties
 
 
 
UK Properties
Northern Ireland Properties
 
Scottish Properties
 
 
 
 
UK Properties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Either party may dispute the Draft Completion Accounts and/or Draft Adjustment Statement by giving notice (in this Schedule 5 the "Notice") in writing to the other party within 10 Business Days of receiving the Draft Completion Accounts and Draft Adjustment Statement. The Notice shall specify:
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of reviewing the Draft Completion Accounts and/or Draft Adjustment Statement each of the parties (and their accountants as appropriate) shall be afforded reasonable access to the books and records of the Company as are appropriate for such review and the relevant working papers of the Company's Auditors used in auditing the Draft Completion Accounts and the Draft Adjustment Statement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
In any reference to the Expert in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Schedule 5:
 
 
 
 
 
The following accounting principles shall apply to the preparation of the Completion Accounts and to the determination of the Actual Net Debt:
 
The Completion Accounts comprise the consolidated financial statement of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
 
The tax charged against profits for the period from the Accounts Date to the Completion Date comprise the tax payable on profits for the period and deferred tax in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the Completion Date, as adjusted for any tax losses forward which can be utilised.
 
 
 
The parties will co-operate in good faith to procure the establishment of the Escrow Account upon or as soon as reasonably practicable after Completion so that the Retained Amount can be transferred to it. For these purposes the Escrow Account shall be a deposit account with AIB Bank, 40  41 Westmoreland Street, Dublin 2 opened in the name of the Vendors' Solicitors and the Purchaser's Solicitors. The signatures to the Escrow Account shall be any one partner (duly authorised in accordance with the bank's mandates) from time to time from each of the Vendors' Solicitors and the Purchaser's Solicitors respectively.
 
The Escrow Account shall be an interest bearing account and all interest accruing on amounts standing to the balance of the Escrow Account shall be credited to the Escrow Account (net of any bank charges or other costs of such account). All fees charged by the bank in relation to opening and operating the Escrow Account shall be deducted against interest earned from time to time and thereafter agreement any other monies standing to the credit of the Escrow Account. The bank may also deduct from interest earned any tax required by law to be deducted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Vendors' Solicitors and the Purchaser's Solicitors (collectively the "Escrow Agents") shall perform only the duties expressly set forth herein. The Escrow Agents shall not have any other right, duty or obligation to manage, make any payment in respect of, vary or otherwise deal in any matters contemplated by this Agreement or to otherwise take or refrain from taking any action under or in connection with any document contemplated hereby and no implied rights, duties, covenants or obligations shall be implied into, or construed from, this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and which in each case has or could have a material adverse effect on the Purchaser's ability to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Agreement.
 
 
 
Words and expressions defined in this Schedule shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the following meanings:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in each case whether or not chargeable against or attributable to or recoverable from any other person, and for the purposes of this definition, the amount of any Tax Liability shall be deemed to be equal to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The headings or captions to the paragraphs in this Schedule are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not be considered a part of or affect the interpretation or construction thereof.
 
 
The Vendors hereby severally covenant to pay to the Purchaser, as a repayment of the Consideration paid for the Shares under this Agreement, an amount equal to the aggregate of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Vendors further hereby covenant to pay to the Purchaser an amount equivalent to any liability to Taxation on or in respect of any sums paid pursuant to this paragraph 2(a) of this Schedule or otherwise hereunder so that the amount so payable shall be grossed up by such amount as will ensure that after payment of any Taxation on or in respect of any amount, there shall be left the sum equal to the amount that would otherwise be payable pursuant to this paragraph 2(a) hereof or otherwise hereunder were the payment not subject to Taxation as aforesaid.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Vendors shall not be liable in respect of any claim (a "Tax Claim") made by the Purchaser pursuant to paragraph 2(a) of this Schedule to the extent that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in each case having retrospective effect;
 
 
 
Where the Purchaser or any Group Company is entitled to recover from a person other than the Vendors any sum in respect of which a Tax Claim is made under paragraph 2(a) of this Schedule (including any sum recoverable from any Tax Authority), and the Vendors have paid to the Purchaser an amount equal to the Tax Claim and the Group Company shall use its reasonable endeavours to recover such amount (keeping the Vendors' Representative fully informed of the progress of any action taken) and shall pay to the Vendors' Representative any amount provided the Vendors' indemnify, the Purchaser against any costs (including additional tax) incurred in respect of any attempted recovery under this paragraph 3 (b) so recovered (including any interest paid by such other person on or in respect thereof) less all costs incurred by the Group Company and/or the Purchaser in making such recovery.
 
Where:
 
 
 
then, an amount equal to the amount of such Tax saving shall first be set off against any payment then due from the Vendors to the Purchaser under this Schedule with the amount of any excess after set-off to be forthwith paid by the Purchaser to the Vendors as a refund of the payment previously made by them.
 
If any provision or reserve for Tax (excluding deferred tax) in the Completion Accounts is found to be excessive (the amount of such excess being referred to as an "over-provision"), or any Group Company becomes entitled after Completion to any refund in relation to Tax paid before Completion, the entitlement to which refund is not reflected in the Accounts provided that no account shall be taken of any over provision or understatement to the extent that they arise as a consequence of any utilisation of any Post Completion Relief or action taken by any Group Company after Completion or change in law after Completion, then the amount of the over-provision or refund shall be set off against any payment then or subsequently due from the Vendors to the Purchaser under this Schedule with any overpayment or refund in excess of such set-off to be paid forthwith by the Purchaser to the Vendors as a refund of any previous payments made by the Vendors to the Purchaser under the Tax Covenant and to the extent after such refund there remains an excess this shall be used by the Purchaser to be set off against any future payment under the Tax Covenant.
 
 
 
 
 
 
as the case may be.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Frank J.M. ten Brink 847-607-2012
Conference call to be held Tuesday February 28th at 9:00 am. Central time  dial in number is 866-219-5829. For international participants please dial 703-639-1123. Replay is available after the call through March 7th at 888-266-2081 access code 863567. To hear a simulcast of the call over the internet, or to access an audio archive of the call, go to the Investor Relations page on Stericycle's website at www.stericycle.com.
Lake Forest, Illinois, February 27, 2006Stericycle, Inc. (NASDAQ: SRCL), the United States' leading provider of medical waste management and compliance services for the healthcare community, today announced that it had completed the acquisition of Sterile Technologies Group Limited, a leading provider of medical waste management services in Ireland and the United Kingdom, for approximately $131 million, of which $114 million was paid in cash and $17 million was paid by assumption of debt.
Sterile Technologies Group Limited is headquartered in Dublin, Ireland and provides medical waste management services to customers in Ireland, Scotland, England and Wales. The acquisition is expected to add approximately $46 million to our revenues this year, and to be approximately $0.02 accretive to earnings per share in 2006, above the $2.41-$2.47 earnings per share guidance that we provided in the open teleconference on February 7, 2006. Sterile Technologies Group Limited had revenues of approximately $55 million in 2005.
For more information about Stericycle, please visit our website at www.stericycle.com.
: Statements in this press release may contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond Stericycle's control (for example, general economic conditions). Our actual results could differ significantly from the results described in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such differences include difficulties in completing the integration of acquired businesses, changes in governmental regulation of medical waste collection and treatment, and increases in transportation and other operating costs, as well as the various other factors identified in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate future results or trends. We make no commitment to disclose any subsequent revisions to forward-looking statements.
Safe Harbor Statement


