FILE:SRCL/SRCL-8K-20080418160156.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     Please refer to Item 2.03 of this report.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
     On April 15, 2008, we entered into a note purchase agreement (the "note purchase agreement") with nine institutional purchasers pursuant to which we issued and sold to the purchasers $100,000,000 of our 5.64% senior notes due April 15, 2015 (the "notes").
     The notes bear interest at the fixed rate of 5.64% per annum. Interest is payable in arrears semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 beginning on October 15, 2008, and principal is payable at the maturity of the notes on April 15, 2015.
     The notes are unsecured obligations and rank with our obligations under our senior unsecured credit facility pursuant to our credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A. and the other lenders party to the credit agreement.
pari passu
     We applied the proceeds from the sale of the notes to reduce our borrowings under our revolving credit facility under our senior unsecured credit facility.
     The notes contain customary events of default, including our failure to pay any principal, interest or other amount when due, our violation of our affirmative or negative covenants or a breach of our representations and warranties. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, payment of the notes may be accelerated by the holders of the notes.
     A copy of the note purchase agreement (which includes the form of the notes as Exhibit 1) is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.1.
     (d) 
Exhibits
     The following exhibit is filed with this report:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
     Date: April 18, 2008.

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
Dated as of April 15, 2008
          
To the Purchasers listed in
the attached Schedule A:
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     , a Delaware corporation (the ), agrees with the Purchasers listed in the attached (the ) to this Note Purchase Agreement (this ) as follows:
Stericycle, Inc.
"Company"
Schedule A
"Purchasers"
"Agreement"
Section 1.
Authorization of Notes.
     . The Company will authorize the issue and sale of $100,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.64% Senior Notes due April 15, 2015 (the such term to include any such notes issued in substitution therefor pursuant to of this Agreement). The Notes shall be substantially in the form set out in with such changes therefrom, if any, as may be approved by each Purchaser and the Company. Certain capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined in ; references to a "Schedule" or an "Exhibit" are, unless otherwise specified, to a Schedule or an Exhibit attached to this Agreement.
Section 1.1. Description of Notes
"Notes,"
Section 13
Exhibit 1
Schedule B
     The Notes shall bear interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) on the unpaid principal thereof from the date of issuance at their stated rate of interest payable semiannually in arrears on the fifteenth day of April and October in each year and at maturity commencing on October 15, 2008, until such principal sum shall have become due and payable (whether at maturity, upon notice of prepayment or otherwise) and interest (so computed) on any overdue principal, interest or Make-Whole Amount from the due date thereof (whether by acceleration or otherwise) and, during the continuance of an Event of Default, on the unpaid balance hereof, at the Default Rate until paid.
Section 1.2. Interest Rate.
Section 2.
Sale and Purchase of Notes.
     Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Company will issue and sell to each Purchaser and each Purchaser will purchase from the Company, at the Closing provided for in , the Notes in the principal amount specified opposite such
Section 2.1. Notes.
Section 3
 
Purchaser's name in at the purchase price of 100% of the principal amount thereof. The obligations of each Purchaser hereunder are several and not joint obligations, and each Purchaser shall have no obligation and no liability to any Person for the performance or nonperformance by any other Purchaser hereunder.
Schedule A
     (a) The payment by the Company of all amounts due with respect to the Notes and the performance by the Company of its obligations under this Agreement will be absolutely and unconditionally guaranteed by a Subsidiary Guarantor pursuant to the Subsidiary Guaranty Agreement dated as of even date herewith, which shall be substantially in the form of attached hereto, and otherwise in accordance with the provisions of hereof (the ).
Section 2.2. Subsidiary Guaranty.
Exhibit 2.2
Section 9.7
"Subsidiary Guaranty"
          (b) If the Company sells, leases or otherwise disposes of all or substantially all of the assets or capital stock of a Subsidiary Guarantor to any Person (other than an Affiliate), the holders of the Notes agree to discharge and release such Subsidiary Guarantor from the Subsidiary Guaranty upon the written request of the Company, that at the time of such release and discharge, the Company shall deliver a certificate of a Responsible Officer to the holders of the Notes stating that no Default or Event of Default exists.
provided
Section 3.
Closing.
     The sale and purchase of the Notes to be purchased by each Purchaser shall occur at the offices of Chapman and Cutler LLP, 111 West Monroe Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603 at 10:00 a.m. Central time, at a closing (the "") on April 15, 2008 or on such other Business Day thereafter on or prior to April 30, 2008 as may be agreed upon by the Company and the Purchasers. On the Closing Date, the Company will deliver to each Purchaser the Notes to be purchased by such Purchaser in the form of a single Note (or such greater number of Notes in denominations of at least $100,000 as such Purchaser may request) dated the date of the Closing Date and registered in such Purchaser's name (or in the name of such Purchaser's nominee), against delivery by such Purchaser to the Company or its order of immediately available funds in the amount of the purchase price therefor by wire transfer of immediately available funds for the account of the Company to Account Number 8666712553, at , ABA Number 026009593, in the Account Name of "Stericycle, Inc.". If, on the Closing Date, the Company shall fail to tender such Notes to any Purchaser as provided above in this , or any of the conditions specified in shall not have been fulfilled to any Purchaser's satisfaction, such Purchaser shall, at such Purchaser's election, be relieved of all further obligations under this Agreement, without thereby waiving any rights such Purchaser may have by reason of such failure or such nonfulfillment.
Closing
Bank of America, Chicago, Illinois
Section 3
Section 4
Section 4.
Conditions to Closing.
     Each Purchaser's obligation to purchase and pay for the Notes to be sold to such Purchaser at the Closing is subject to the fulfillment to such Purchaser's satisfaction, prior to or at the Closing, of the following conditions applicable to the Closing Date:
 
     .
Section 4.1. Representations and Warranties
          (a) The representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement shall be correct when made and at the time of the Closing.
Representations and Warranties of the Company.
          (b) The representations and warranties of the Subsidiary Guarantor in the Subsidiary Guaranty shall be correct when made and at the time of the Closing.
Representations and Warranties of the Subsidiary Guarantor.
     . The Company and the Subsidiary Guarantor shall have performed and complied with all agreements and conditions contained in this Agreement and the Subsidiary Guaranty required to be performed or complied with by the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantor prior to or at the Closing, and after giving effect to the issue and sale of the Notes (and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated by ), no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing. Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary shall have entered into any transaction since the date of the Memorandum that would have been prohibited by hereof had such Section applied since such date.
Section 4.2. Performance; No Default
Section 5.14
Section 10
     .
Section 4.3. Compliance Certificates
          (a) The Company shall have delivered to such Purchaser an Officer's Certificate, dated the Closing Date, certifying that the conditions specified in , and have been fulfilled.
Officer's Certificate of the Company.
Sections 4.1
4.2
4.9
          (b) The Company shall have delivered to such Purchaser a certificate, dated the Closing Date, certifying as to the resolutions attached thereto and other corporate proceedings relating to the authorization, execution and delivery of the Notes and this Agreement.
Secretary's Certificate of the Company.
          (c) The Subsidiary Guarantor shall have delivered to such Purchaser an Officer's Certificate, dated the Closing Date, certifying that the conditions specified in , and have been fulfilled.
Officer's Certificate of the Subsidiary Guarantor.
Sections 4.1(b)
4.2
4.9
          (d) The Subsidiary Guarantor shall have delivered to such Purchaser a certificate, dated the Closing Date, certifying as to the resolutions attached thereto and other corporate proceedings relating to the authorization, execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Guaranty.
Secretary's Certificate of the Subsidiary Guarantor.
     .Such Purchaser shall have received opinions in form and substance satisfactory to such Purchaser, dated the Closing Date (a) from Johnson and Colmar, special counsel for the Company, covering the matters set forth in and covering such other matters incident to the transactions contemplated hereby as such Purchaser or its counsel may reasonably request (and the Company hereby instructs its counsel to deliver such opinion to the Purchasers), and (b) from Chapman and Cutler, LLP, the Purchasers' special
Section 4.4. Opinions of Counsel
Exhibit 4.
4(a)
 
counsel in connection with such transactions, substantially in the form set forth in and covering such other matters incident to such transactions as such Purchaser may reasonably request.
Exhibit 4.
4(b)
     .On the date of the Closing such Purchaser's purchase of Notes shall (a) be permitted by the laws and regulations of each jurisdiction to which such Purchaser is subject, without recourse to provisions (such as section 1405(a)(8) of the New York Insurance Law) permitting limited investments by insurance companies without restriction as to the character of the particular investment, (b) not violate any applicable law or regulation (including, without limitation, Regulation T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) and (c) not subject such Purchaser to any tax, penalty or liability under or pursuant to any applicable law or regulation, which law or regulation was not in effect on the date hereof. If requested by such Purchaser, such Purchaser shall have received an Officer's Certificate certifying as to such matters of fact as such Purchaser may reasonably specify to enable such Purchaser to determine whether such purchase is so permitted.
Section 4.5. Purchase Permitted By Applicable Law, Etc
     . Contemporaneously with the Closing the Company shall sell to each other Purchaser and each other Purchaser shall purchase the Notes to be purchased by it at the Closing as specified in .
Section 4.6. Sale of Other Notes
Schedule A
     . Without limiting the provisions of , the Company shall have paid on or before the Closing Date, the reasonable fees, reasonable charges and reasonable disbursements of the Purchasers' special counsel referred to in to the extent reflected in a statement of such counsel rendered to the Company at least one Business Day prior to the Closing Date.
Section 4.7. Payment of Special Counsel Fees
Section 15.1
Section 4.4
     .A Private Placement Number issued by Standard & Poor's CUSIP Service Bureau (in cooperation with the Securities Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners) shall have been obtained for the Notes.
Section 4.8. Private Placement Number
     . Neither the Company nor the Subsidiary Guarantor shall have changed its jurisdiction of organization or, except as reflected in , been a party to any merger or consolidation, or shall have succeeded to all or any substantial part of the liabilities of any other entity, at any time following the date of the most recent financial statements referred to in .
Section 4.9. Changes in Corporate Structure
Schedule 4.9
Schedule 5.5
     The Subsidiary Guaranty shall have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Subsidiary Guarantor, shall constitute the legal, valid and binding contract and agreement of the Subsidiary Guarantor and such Purchaser shall have received a true, correct and complete copy thereof.
Section 4.10. Subsidiary Guaranty.
     The Company shall have obtained any consents or approvals required to be obtained from any holder or holders of any outstanding security of the Company and any amendments of agreements pursuant to which any security may have been issued which shall be necessary to permit the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Section 4.11. Consents and Approvals.
 
     .At least three Business Days prior to the date of the Closing, each Purchaser shall have received written instructions signed by a Responsible Officer on letterhead of the Company confirming the information specified in including (i) the name and address of the transferee bank, (ii) such transferee bank's ABA number and (iii) the account name and number into which the purchase price for the Notes is to be deposited.
Section 4.12. Funding Instructions
Section 3
     .All corporate and other organizational proceedings in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and all documents and instruments incident to such transactions shall be satisfactory to such Purchaser and its special counsel, and such Purchaser and its special counsel shall have received all such counterpart originals or certified or other copies of such documents as such Purchaser or such special counsel may reasonably request.
Section 4.13. Proceedings and Documents
Section 5.
Representations and Warranties of the Company.
          The Company represents and warrants to each Purchaser that:
     . The Company is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation, and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required by law, other than those jurisdictions as to which the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The Company has the corporate power and authority to own or hold under lease the properties it purports to own or hold under lease, to transact the business it transacts and proposes to transact, to execute and deliver this Agreement and the Notes and to perform the provisions hereof and thereof.
Section 5.1. Organization; Power and Authority
     .This Agreement and the Notes have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company, and this Agreement constitutes, and upon execution and delivery thereof each Note will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Section 5.2. Authorization, Etc
     .The Company, through its agent, Banc of America Securities LLC, has delivered to each Purchaser a copy of a Private Placement Memorandum, dated March, 2008 (the ), relating to the transactions contemplated hereby. The Memorandum fairly describes, in all material respects, the general nature of the business and principal properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries. This Agreement, the Memorandum, the documents, certificates or other writings delivered to the Purchasers by or on behalf of the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the financial statements listed in , in each case, delivered to the Purchasers prior to March 25, 2008 (this Agreement, the Memorandum and such documents, certificates or other writings and such financial statements being referred to, collectively, as the ), taken as a
Section 5.3. Disclosure
"Memorandum"
Schedule 5.5
"Disclosure Documents"
 
whole, do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in light of the circumstances under which they were made. Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Documents, since December 31, 2007, there has been no change in the financial condition, operations, business or properties of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries except changes that individually or in the aggregate would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There is no fact known to the Company that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect that has not been set forth herein or in the Disclosure Documents.
     .(a) contains (except as noted therein) complete and correct lists (i) of the Company's Subsidiaries, showing, as to each Subsidiary, the correct name thereof, the jurisdiction of its organization, and the percentage of shares of each class of its capital stock or similar equity interests outstanding owned by the Company and each other Subsidiary, and all other Investments of the Company and its Subsidiaries, (ii) of the Company's Affiliates, other than Subsidiaries, and (iii) of the Company's directors and senior officers.
Section 5.4. Organization and Ownership of Shares of Subsidiaries; Affiliates
Schedule 5.4
          (b) All of the outstanding shares of capital stock or similar equity interests of each Subsidiary shown in as being owned by the Company and its Subsidiaries have been validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned by the Company or another Subsidiary free and clear of any Lien (except as otherwise disclosed in ).
Schedule 5.4
Schedule 5.4
          (c) Each Subsidiary identified in is a corporation or other legal entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation or other legal entity and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required by law, other than those jurisdictions as to which the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Each such Subsidiary has the corporate or other power and authority to own or hold under lease the properties it purports to own or hold under lease and to transact the business it transacts and proposes to transact.
Schedule 5.4
          (d) No Subsidiary is a party to, or otherwise subject to, any legal, regulatory, contractual or other restriction (other than this Agreement, the agreements listed on and customary limitations imposed by corporate law or similar statutes) restricting the ability of such Subsidiary to pay dividends out of profits or make any other similar distributions of profits to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that owns outstanding shares of capital stock or similar equity interests of such Subsidiary.
Schedule 5.4
     .The Company has delivered to each Purchaser copies of the financial statements of the Company and its Subsidiaries listed on . All of said financial statements (including in each case the related schedules and notes) fairly present in all material respects the consolidated financial position of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the respective dates specified in such Schedule and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows for the respective periods so specified and have been prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the periods involved except as set forth in the notes thereto (subject, in the case of any interim financial statements, to normal
Section 5.5. Financial Statements; Material Liabilities
Schedule 5.5
 
year-end adjustments). The Company and its Subsidiaries do not have any Material liabilities that are not disclosed on such financial statements or otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Documents.
     .The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement and the Notes will not (a) contravene, result in any breach of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation of any Lien in respect of any property of the Company or any Subsidiary under, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan, purchase or credit agreement, lease, corporate charter or by-laws, or any other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any Subsidiary is bound or by which the Company or any Subsidiary or any of their respective properties may be bound or affected, (b) conflict with or result in a breach of any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any order, judgment, decree, or ruling of any court, arbitrator or Governmental Authority applicable to the Company or any Subsidiary, or (c) violate any provision of any statute or other rule or regulation of any Governmental Authority applicable to the Company or any Subsidiary.
Section 5.6. Compliance with Laws, Other Instruments, Etc
     .No consent, approval or authorization of, or registration, filing or declaration with, any Governmental Authority is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by the Company of this Agreement or the Notes.
Section 5.7. Governmental Authorizations, Etc
     .(a) There are no actions, suits, investigations or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or affecting the Company or any Subsidiary or any property of the Company or any Subsidiary in any court or before any arbitrator of any kind or before or by any Governmental Authority that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 5.8. Litigation; Observance of Agreements, Statutes and Orders
          (b) Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is in default under any term of any agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it is bound, or any order, judgment, decree or ruling of any court, arbitrator or Governmental Authority or is in violation of any applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation (including without limitation Environmental Laws or the USA Patriot Act) of any Governmental Authority, which default or violation, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     .The Company and its Subsidiaries have filed all tax returns that are required to have been filed in any jurisdiction, and have paid all taxes shown to be due and payable on such returns and all other taxes and assessments levied upon them or their properties, assets, income or franchises, to the extent such taxes and assessments have become due and payable and before they have become delinquent, except for any taxes and assessments (a) the amount of which is not individually or in the aggregate Material or (b) the amount, applicability or validity of which is currently being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, has established adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP. The Company knows of no basis for any other tax or assessment that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Company and its Subsidiaries in respect of federal,
Section 5.9. Taxes
 
state or other taxes for all fiscal periods are adequate. The federal income tax liabilities of the Company and its Subsidiaries have been finally determined (whether by reason of completed audits or the statute of limitations having run) for all fiscal years up to and including the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004.
     .The Company and its Subsidiaries have good and sufficient title to their respective properties which the Company and its Subsidiaries own or purport to own that individually or in the aggregate are Material, including all such properties reflected in the most recent audited balance sheet referred to in or purported to have been acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary after said date (except as sold or otherwise disposed of in the ordinary course of business), in each case free and clear of Liens prohibited by this Agreement. All leases that individually or in the aggregate are Material are valid and subsisting and are in full force and effect in all material respects.
Section 5.10. Title to Property; Leases
Section 5.5
     . Except as disclosed in ,
Section 5.11. Licenses, Permits, Etc
Schedule 5.11
          (a) the Company and its Subsidiaries own or possess all licenses, permits, franchises, authorizations, patents, copyrights, proprietary software, service marks, trademarks and trade names, or rights thereto, that individually or in the aggregate are Material, without known conflict with the rights of others;
          (b) to the best knowledge of the Company, no product of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries infringes in any Material respect any license, permit, franchise, authorization, patent, copyright, proprietary software, service mark, trademark, trade name or other right owned by any other Person; and
          (c) to the best knowledge of the Company, there is no Material violation by any Person of any right of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries with respect to any patent, copyright, proprietary software, service mark, trademark, trade name or other right owned or used by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
     .(a) The Company and each ERISA Affiliate have operated and administered each Plan in compliance with all applicable laws except for such instances of noncompliance as have not resulted in and would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred any liability pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or the penalty or excise tax provisions of the Code relating to employee benefit plans (as defined in section 3 of ERISA), and no event, transaction or condition has occurred or exists that would reasonably be expected to result in the incurrence of any such liability by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate, or in the imposition of any Lien on any of the rights, properties or assets of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate, in either case pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or to such penalty or excise tax provisions or to section 401(a)(29) or 412 of the Code or section 4068 of ERISA, other than such liabilities or Liens as would not be individually or in the aggregate Material.
Section 5.12. Compliance with ERISA
 
          (b) Neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate maintains or has maintained a Plan that is or was subject to the "minimum funding standards" under section 302 of ERISA or that is or was subject to Title IV of ERISA.
          (c) The Company and its ERISA Affiliates have not incurred any withdrawal liabilities (and are not subject to contingent withdrawal liabilities) under section 4201 or 4204 of ERISA in respect of Multiemployer Plans that individually or in the aggregate are Material.
          (d) The expected post-retirement benefit obligation (determined as of the last day of the Company's most recently ended fiscal year in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 106, without regard to liabilities attributable to continuation coverage mandated by section 4980B of the Code) of the Company and its Subsidiaries is not Material.
          (e) The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the issuance and sale of the Notes hereunder will not involve any transaction that is subject to the prohibitions of Section 406 of ERISA or in connection with which a tax would be imposed pursuant to Section 4975(c)(1)(A)-(D) of the Code. The representation by the Company in the first sentence of this is made in reliance upon and subject to the accuracy of each Purchaser's representation in as to the sources of the funds to be used to pay the purchase price of the Notes to be purchased by such Purchaser.
Section 5.12(e)
Section 6.3
     .Neither the Company nor anyone acting on the Company's behalf has offered the Notes or any similar securities for sale to, or solicited any offer to buy any of the same from, or otherwise approached or negotiated in respect thereof with, any Person other than the Purchasers and not more than 75 other Institutional Investors, each of which has been offered the Notes in connection with a private sale for investment. Neither the Company nor anyone acting on its behalf has taken, or will take, any action that would subject the issuance or sale of the Notes to the registration requirements of Section 5 of the Securities Act or to the registration requirements of any securities or blue sky laws of any applicable jurisdiction.
Section 5.13. Private Offering by the Company
     .The Company will apply the proceeds of the sale of the Notes to refinance existing Debt and for general corporate purposes of the Company. No part of the proceeds from the sale of the Notes hereunder will be used, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of buying or carrying any margin stock within the meaning of Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 221), or for the purpose of buying or carrying or trading in any securities under such circumstances as to involve the Company in a violation of Regulation X of said Board (12 CFR 224) or to involve any broker or dealer in a violation of Regulation T of said Board (12 CFR 220). Margin stock does not constitute more than 5% of the value of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries and the Company does not have any present intention that margin stock will constitute more than 5% of the value of such assets. As used in this Section, the terms and shall have the meanings assigned to them in said Regulation U.
Section 5.14. Use of Proceeds; Margin Regulations
"margin stock"
"purpose of buying or carrying"
 
     . (a) Except as described therein, sets forth a complete and correct list of all outstanding Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2007 (including a description of the obligors and obligees, principal amount outstanding and collateral therefor, if any, and Guaranty thereof, if any), since which date there has been no Material change in the amounts, interest rates, sinking funds, installment payments or maturities of the Debt of the Company or its Subsidiaries. Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is in default and no waiver of default is currently in effect, in the payment of any principal or interest on any Debt of the Company or such Subsidiary, and no event or condition exists with respect to any Debt of the Company or any Subsidiary, that would permit (or that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would permit) one or more Persons to cause such Debt to become due and payable before its stated maturity or before its regularly scheduled dates of payment.
Section 5.15. Existing Debt; Future Liens
Schedule 5.15
          (b) Except as disclosed in , neither the Company nor any Subsidiary has agreed or consented to cause or permit in the future (upon the happening of a contingency or otherwise) any of its property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, to be subject to a Lien not permitted by .
Schedule 5.15
Section 10.3
          (c) Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is a party to, or otherwise subject to any provision contained in, any instrument evidencing Debt of the Company or such Subsidiary, any agreement relating thereto or any other agreement (including, but not limited to, its charter or other organizational document) which limits the amount of, or otherwise imposes restrictions on the incurring of, Debt of the Company, except as specifically indicated in .
Schedule 5.15
          .(a) Neither the sale of the Notes by the Company hereunder nor its use of the proceeds thereof will violate the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, or any of the foreign assets control regulations of the United States Treasury Department (31 CFR, Subtitle B, Chapter V, as amended) or any enabling legislation or executive order relating thereto.
Section 5.16. Foreign Assets Control Regulations, Etc
          (b) Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is a Person described or designated in the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or in Section 1 of the Anti-Terrorism Order or, to the knowledge of the Company, engages in any dealings or transactions with any such Person. The Company and its Subsidiaries are in compliance, in all material respects, with the USA Patriot Act.
          (c) No part of the proceeds from the sale of the Notes hereunder will be used, directly or indirectly, for any payments to any governmental official or employee, political party, official of a political party, candidate for political office, or anyone else acting in an official capacity, in order to obtain, retain or direct business or obtain any improper advantage, in violation of the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, assuming in all cases that such Act applies to the Company.
     s.Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, the Public Utility
Section 5.17. Status under Certain Statute
 
Holding Company Act of 2005, as amended, the ICC Termination Act of 1995, as amended, or the Federal Power Act, as amended.
     . (a) Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary has knowledge of any liability or has received any notice of any liability, and no proceeding has been instituted raising any liability against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective real properties now or formerly owned, leased or operated by any of them, or other assets, alleging any damage to the environment or violation of any Environmental Laws, except, in each case, such as would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 5.18. Environmental Matters
          (b) Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary has knowledge of any facts which would give rise to any liability, public or private, of violation of Environmental Laws or damage to the environment emanating from, occurring on or in any way related to real properties now or formerly owned, leased or operated by any of them or to other assets or their use, except, in each case, such as would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
          (c) Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has stored any Hazardous Materials on real properties now or formerly owned, leased or operated by any of them and has not disposed of any Hazardous Materials in a manner contrary to any Environmental Laws in each case in any manner that would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
          (d) All buildings on all real properties now owned, leased or operated by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries are in compliance with applicable Environmental Laws, except where failure to comply would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
     The obligations of the Company under this Agreement and the Notes rank in right of payment with all other senior unsecured Debt (actual or contingent) of the Company, including, without limitation, all senior unsecured Debt of the Company described in hereto.
Section 5.19. Notes Rank Pari Passu.
pari passu
Schedule 5.15
Section 6.
Representations of the Purchaser.
     .Each Purchaser severally represents that it is purchasing the Notes for its own account or for one or more separate accounts maintained by it or for the account of one or more pension or trust funds and not with a view to the distribution thereof (other than any Notes purchased by Banc of America Securities LLC on the Closing Date which are intended to be resold to a "qualified institutional buyer" pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act), that the disposition of such Purchaser's or such pension or trust funds' property shall at all times be within such Purchaser's or such pension or trust funds' control. Each Purchaser understands that the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may be resold only if registered pursuant to the provisions of the Securities Act or if an exemption from registration is available, except under circumstances where neither such registration nor such an exemption is required by law, and that the Company is not required to register the Notes.
Section 6.1. Purchase for Investment
provided
 
     . Each Purchaser represents that it is an "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act acting for its own account (and not for the account of others) or as a fiduciary or agent for others (which others are also "accredited investors"). Each Purchaser further represents that such Purchaser has had the opportunity to ask questions of the Company and received answers concerning the terms and conditions of the sale of the Notes.
Section 6.2. Accredited Investor
     . Each Purchaser severally represents that at least one of the following statements is an accurate representation as to each source of funds (a ) to be used by such Purchaser to pay the purchase price of the Notes to be purchased by such Purchaser hereunder:
Section 6.3. Source of Funds
"Source"
          (a) the Source is an "insurance company general account" (as the term is defined in the United States Department of Labor's Prohibited Transaction Exemption () 95-60) in respect of which the reserves and liabilities (as defined by the annual statement for life insurance companies approved by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (the )) for the general account contract(s) held by or on behalf of any employee benefit plan together with the amount of the reserves and liabilities for the general account contract(s) held by or on behalf of any other employee benefit plans maintained by the same employer (or affiliate thereof as defined in PTE 95-60) or by the same employee organization in the general account do not exceed 10% of the total reserves and liabilities of the general account (exclusive of separate account liabilities) plus surplus as set forth in the NAIC Annual Statement filed with such Purchaser's state of domicile; or
"PTE"
"NAIC Annual Statement"
          (b) the Source is a separate account that is maintained solely in connection with such Purchaser's fixed contractual obligations under which the amounts payable, or credited, to any employee benefit plan (or its related trust) that has any interest in such separate account (or to any participant or beneficiary of such plan (including any annuitant)) are not affected in any manner by the investment performance of the separate account; or
          (c) the Source is either (i) an insurance company pooled separate account, within the meaning of PTE 90-1 or (ii) a bank collective investment fund, within the meaning of the PTE 91-38 and, except as disclosed by such Purchaser to the Company in writing pursuant to this clause (c), no employee benefit plan or group of plans maintained by the same employer or employee organization beneficially owns more than 10% of all assets allocated to such pooled separate account or collective investment fund; or
          (d) the Source constitutes assets of an "investment fund" (within the meaning of Part V of PTE 84-14 (the )) managed by a "qualified professional asset manager" or "QPAM" (within the meaning of Part V of the QPAM Exemption), no employee benefit plan's assets that are included in such investment fund, when combined with the assets of all other employee benefit plans established or maintained by the same employer or by an affiliate (within the meaning of Section V(c)(1) of the QPAM Exemption) of such employer or by the same employee organization and managed by
"QPAM Exemption"
 
such QPAM, exceed 20% of the total client assets managed by such QPAM, the conditions of Part I(c) and (g) of the QPAM Exemption are satisfied, as of the last day of its most recent calendar quarter, the QPAM does not own a 10% or more interest in the Company and no person controlling or controlled by the QPAM (applying the definition of "control" in Section V(e) of the QPAM Exemption) owns a 20% or more interest in the Company (or less than 20% but greater than 10%, if such person exercises control over the management or policies of the Company by reason of its ownership interest) and (i) the identity of such QPAM and (ii) the names of all employee benefit plans whose assets are included in such investment fund have been disclosed to the Company in writing pursuant to this clause (d); or
          (e) the Source constitutes assets of a "plan(s)" (within the meaning of Section IV of PTE 96-23 (the )) managed by an "in-house asset manager" or "INHAM" (within the meaning of Part IV of the INHAM exemption), the conditions of Part I(a), (g) and (h) of the INHAM Exemption are satisfied, neither the INHAM nor a person controlling or controlled by the INHAM (applying the definition of "control" in Section IV(d) of the INHAM Exemption) owns a 5% or more interest in the Company and (i) the identity of such INHAM and (ii) the name(s) of the employee benefit plan(s) whose assets constitute the Source have been disclosed to the Company in writing pursuant to this clause (e); or
"INHAM Exemption"
          (f) the Source is a governmental plan; or
          (g) the Source is one or more employee benefit plans, or a separate account or trust fund comprised of one or more employee benefit plans, each of which has been identified to the Company in writing pursuant to this clause (g); or
          (h) the Source does not include assets of any employee benefit plan, other than a plan exempt from the coverage of ERISA.
As used in this , the terms and shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in section 3 of ERISA.
Section 6.3
"employee benefit plan," "governmental plan,"
"separate account"
Section 7.
Information as to Company.
     . The Company shall deliver to each holder of Notes that is an Institutional Investor:
Section 7.1. Financial and Business Information
          (a)  within 45 days after the end of each quarterly fiscal period in each fiscal year of the Company (other than the last quarterly fiscal period of each such fiscal year),
Quarterly Statements
          (i) a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such quarter, and
 
          (ii) consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries, for such quarter and (in the case of the second and third quarters) for the portion of the fiscal year ending with such quarter,
setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding periods in the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, prepared in accordance with GAAP applicable to quarterly financial statements generally, and certified by a Senior Financial Officer as fairly presenting, in all material respects, the financial position of the companies being reported on and their results of operations and cash flows, subject to changes resulting from year-end adjustments, that filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission within the time period specified above the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q prepared in compliance with the requirements therefor shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this ;
provided
Section 7.1(a)
          (b)  within 105 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company,
Annual Statements
          (i) a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries, as at the end of such year, and
          (ii) consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries, for such year,
setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, prepared in accordance with GAAP, and accompanied by an opinion thereon of independent certified public accountants of recognized national standing, which opinion shall state that such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the companies being reported upon and their results of operations and cash flows and have been prepared in conformity with GAAP, and that the examination of such accountants in connection with such financial statements has been made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and that such audit provides a reasonable basis for such opinion in the circumstances, that filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission within the time period specified above of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for such fiscal year (together with the Company's annual report to shareholders, if any, prepared pursuant to Rule 14a-3 under the Exchange Act) prepared in accordance with the requirements therefor shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this ;
provided
Section 7.1(b)
          (c)  except for filings referred to in and above, promptly upon their becoming available and, to the extent applicable, one copy of (i) each financial statement, report, notice or proxy statement sent by the Company or any Subsidiary to public securities holders generally, and (ii) each regular or periodic report, each registration statement (without exhibits except as expressly requested by such holder), and each prospectus and all amendments thereto filed by the Company or any Subsidiary with the Securities and Exchange Commission, if any and
SEC and Other Reports
Section 7.
1(a)
(b)
 
(iii) all press releases and other statements made available generally by the Company or any Subsidiary to the public concerning developments that are Material;
     (d)  promptly, and in any event within five Business Days after a Responsible Officer becomes aware of the existence of any Default or Event of Default or that any Person has given any notice or taken any action with respect to a claimed default hereunder or that any Person has given any notice or taken any action with respect to a claimed default of the type referred to in , a written notice specifying the nature and period of existence thereof and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto;
Notice of Default or Event of Default
Section 11(f)
     (e)  promptly, and in any event within five Business Days after a Responsible Officer becomes aware of any of the following, a written notice setting forth the nature thereof and the action, if any, that the Company or an ERISA Affiliate proposes to take with respect thereto:
ERISA Matters
          (i) with respect to any Plan, any reportable event, as defined in Section 4043(c) of ERISA and the regulations thereunder, for which notice thereof has not been waived pursuant to such regulations as in effect on the date thereof; or
          (ii) the taking by the PBGC of steps to institute, or the threatening by the PBGC of the institution of, proceedings under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Plan, or the receipt by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate of a notice from a Multiemployer Plan that such action has been taken by the PBGC with respect to such Multiemployer Plan; or
          (iii) any event, transaction or condition that would result in the incurrence of any liability by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or the imposition of a penalty or excise tax under the provisions of the Code relating to employee benefit plans, or the imposition of any Lien on any of the rights, properties or assets of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or such penalty or excise tax provisions, if such liability or Lien, taken together with any other such liabilities or Liens then existing, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
     (f)  promptly, and in any event within 30 days of receipt thereof, copies of any notice to the Company or any Subsidiary from any federal or state Governmental Authority relating to any order, ruling, statute or other law or regulation that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and
Notices from Governmental Authority
     (g)  with reasonable promptness, such other data and information relating to the business, operations, affairs, financial condition, assets or
Requested Information
 
properties of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or relating to the ability of the Company to perform its obligations hereunder and under the Notes as from time to time may be reasonably requested by any such holder of Notes or such information regarding the Company required to satisfy the requirements of 17 C.F.R. 230.144A, as amended from time to time, in connection with any contemplated transfer of the Notes.
     . Each set of financial statements delivered to a holder of Notes pursuant to or hereof shall be accompanied by a certificate of a Senior Financial Officer setting forth:
Section 7.2. Officer's Certificate
Section 7.
1(a)
Section 7.
1(b)
          (a)  the information required in order to establish whether the Company was in compliance with the requirements of through hereof, inclusive, and during the quarterly or annual period covered by the statements then being furnished (including with respect to each such Section, where applicable, the calculations of the maximum or minimum amount, ratio or percentage, as the case may be, permissible under the terms of such Sections, and the calculation of the amount, ratio or percentage then in existence); and
Covenant Compliance
Section 10.1
Section 10.3
Section 10.4
          (b)  a statement that such officer has reviewed the relevant terms hereof and that such review shall not have disclosed the existence during the quarterly or annual period covered by the statements then being furnished of any condition or event that constitutes a Default or an Event of Default or, if any such condition or event existed or exists, specifying the nature and period of existence thereof and what action the Company shall have taken or proposes to take with respect thereto.
Event of Default
     . The Company shall permit the representatives of each holder of Notes that is an Institutional Investor:
Section 7.3. Visitation
          (a)  if no Default or Event of Default then exists, at the expense of such holder and upon reasonable prior notice to the Company, to visit the principal executive office of the Company, to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Company and its Subsidiaries with the Company's officers, and (with the consent of the Company, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld) its independent public accountants, and (with the consent of the Company, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld) to visit the other offices and properties of the Company and each Subsidiary, all at such reasonable times and as often as may be reasonably requested in writing; and
No Default
          (b)  if a Default or Event of Default then exists, at the expense of the Company, to visit and inspect any of the offices or properties of the Company or any Subsidiary, to examine all their respective books of account, records, reports and other papers, to make copies and extracts therefrom, and to discuss their respective affairs, finances and accounts with their respective officers and independent public accountants (and by this provision the Company authorizes said accountants to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Company and its Subsidiaries), all at such times and as often as may be requested.
Default
 
Section 8.
Payment of the Notes.
     The entire unpaid principal amount of the Notes shall become due and payable on April 15, 2015.
Section 8.1. Required Prepayments.
     . The Company may, at its option, upon notice as provided below, prepay at any time all, or from time to time any part of, the Notes, in an amount not less than 10% of the original aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be prepaid in the case of a partial prepayment, at 100% of the principal amount so prepaid, together with interest accrued thereon to the date of such prepayment, plus the Make-Whole Amount, if any, determined for the prepayment date with respect to such principal amount of each Note then outstanding to be prepaid. The Company will give each holder of Notes written notice of each optional prepayment under this not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for such prepayment. Each such notice shall specify such date (which shall be a Business Day), the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be prepaid on such date, the principal amount of each Note held by such holder to be prepaid (determined in accordance with ), and the interest to be paid on the prepayment date with respect to such principal amount being prepaid, and shall be accompanied by a certificate of a Senior Financial Officer as to the estimated Make-Whole Amount due in connection with such prepayment (calculated as if the date of such notice were the date of the prepayment), setting forth the details of such computation. Two Business Days prior to such prepayment, the Company shall deliver to each holder of Notes to be prepaid a certificate of a Senior Financial Officer specifying the calculation of each such Make-Whole Amount as of the specified prepayment date.
Section 8.2. Optional Prepayments with Make-Whole Amount
Section 8.2
Section 8.3
     . In the case of each partial prepayment of the Notes pursuant to the provisions of , the principal amount of the Notes to be prepaid shall be allocated among all of the Notes at the time outstanding in proportion, as nearly as practicable, to the respective unpaid principal amounts thereof.
Section 8.3. Allocation of Partial Prepayments
Section 8.2
     In the case of each prepayment of Notes pursuant to this , the principal amount of each Note to be prepaid shall mature and become due and payable on the date fixed for such prepayment (which shall be a Business Day), together with interest on such principal amount accrued to such date and the applicable Make-Whole Amount, if any. From and after such date, unless the Company shall fail to pay such principal amount when so due and payable, together with the interest and Make-Whole Amount, if any, as aforesaid, interest on such principal amount shall cease to accrue. Any Note paid or prepaid in full shall be surrendered to the Company and cancelled and shall not be reissued, and no Note shall be issued in lieu of any prepaid principal amount of any Note.
Section 8.4. Maturity; Surrender, Etc.
Section 8
     . The Company will not and will not permit any Affiliate to purchase, redeem, prepay or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any of the outstanding Notes except (a) upon the payment or prepayment of the Notes in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Notes or (b) pursuant to a written offer to purchase any outstanding Notes made by the Company or an Affiliate pro rata to the holders of the Notes upon the same terms and conditions. The Company will promptly cancel all Notes acquired by it or any
Section 8.5. Purchase of Notes
 
Affiliate pursuant to any payment, prepayment or purchase of Notes pursuant to any provision of this Agreement and no Notes may be issued in substitution or exchange for any such Notes.
     . The term means with respect to any Note an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Discounted Value of the Remaining Scheduled Payments with respect to the Called Principal of such Note, the amount of such Called Principal, that the Make-Whole Amount may in no event be less than zero. For the purposes of determining the Make-Whole Amount, the following terms have the following meanings with respect to the Called Principal of such Note:
Section 8.6. Make-Whole Amount
"Make-Whole Amount"
minus
provided
          means, the principal of any Note that is to be prepaid pursuant to or has become or is declared to be immediately due and payable pursuant to , as the context requires.
"Called Principal"
Section 8.2
Section 12.1
          means, the amount obtained by discounting all Remaining Scheduled Payments from their respective scheduled due dates to the Settlement Date with respect to such Called Principal, in accordance with accepted financial practice and at a discount factor (applied on the same periodic basis as that on which interest on such Note is payable) equal to the Reinvestment Yield.
"Discounted Value"
          means, 0.50% plus the yield to maturity calculated by using (i) the yields reported, as of 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the second Business Day preceding the Settlement Date on screen "PX-1" on the Bloomberg Financial Market Service (or such other display as may replace Page PX1) on Bloomberg for the most recently issued actively traded on the run U.S. Treasury securities having a maturity equal to the Remaining Average Life of such Called Principal as of such Settlement Date, or (ii) if such yields are not reported as of such time or the yields reported as of such time are not ascertainable (including by way of interpolation), the Treasury Constant Maturity Series Yields reported, for the latest day for which such yields have been so reported as of the second Business Day preceding the Settlement Date, in Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (519) (or any comparable successor publication) for actively traded U.S. Treasury securities having a constant maturity equal to the Remaining Average Life of such Called Principal as of such Settlement Date.
"Reinvestment Yield"
          In the case of each determination under clause (i) or clause (ii), as the case may be, of the preceding paragraph, such implied yield will be determined, if necessary, by (a) converting U.S. Treasury bill quotations to bond-equivalent yields in accordance with accepted financial practice and (b) interpolating linearly between (1) the applicable U.S. Treasury security with the maturity closest to and greater than such Remaining Average Life and (2) the applicable U.S. Treasury security with the maturity closest to and less than such Remaining Average Life. The Reinvestment Yield shall be rounded to the number of decimal places as appears in the interest rate of the applicable Note.
          means, the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth year) obtained by dividing (i) such Called Principal into (ii) the sum of the products obtained by multiplying (a) the principal component of each Remaining
"Remaining Average Life"
 
Scheduled Payment by (b) the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth year) that will elapse between the Settlement Date and the scheduled due date of such Remaining Scheduled Payment.
     means, all payments of such Called Principal and interest thereon that would be due after the Settlement Date if no payment of such Called Principal were made prior to its scheduled due date, that if such Settlement Date is not a date on which interest payments are due to be made under the terms of such Note, then the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued to such Settlement Date and required to be paid on such Settlement Date pursuant to or .
"Remaining Scheduled Payments"
provided
Section 8.2
Section 12.1
     means, the date on which such Called Principal is to be prepaid pursuant to or has become or is declared to be immediately due and payable pursuant to , as the context requires.
"Settlement Date"
Section 8.2
Section 12.1
     . (a) The Company will, within 15 Business Days after any Responsible Officer has knowledge of the occurrence of any Change in Control or Control Event, give written notice of such Change in Control or Control Event to each holder of the Notes notice in respect of such Change in Control (or the Change in Control contemplated by such Control Event) shall have been given pursuant to subparagraph (b) of this . If a Change in Control has occurred, such notice shall contain and constitute an offer to prepay the Notes as described in subparagraph (c) of this and shall be accompanied by the certificate described in subparagraph (g) of this .
Section 8.7. Change in Control
Notice of Change in Control or Control Event.
unless
Section 8.7
Section 8.7
Section 8.7
          (b) The Company will not take any action that consummates or finalizes a Change in Control unless (i) at least 15 Business Days prior to such action it shall have given to each holder of Notes written notice containing and constituting an offer to prepay Notes as described in subparagraph (c) of this , accompanied by the certificate described in subparagraph (g) of this , and (ii) contemporaneously with such action, it prepays all Notes required to be prepaid in accordance with this .
Condition to Company Action.
Section 8.7
Section 8.7
Section 8.7
          (c) The offer to prepay Notes contemplated by subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this shall be an offer to prepay, in accordance with and subject to this , all, but not less than all, the Notes held by each holder (in this case only, in respect of any Note registered in the name of a nominee for a disclosed beneficial owner shall mean such beneficial owner) on a date specified in such offer (the ). If such Proposed Prepayment Date is in connection with an offer contemplated by subparagraph (a) of this , such date shall be not less than 20 days and not more than 30 days after the date of such offer (if the Proposed Prepayment Date shall not be specified in such offer, the Proposed Prepayment Date shall be the 20th day after the date of such offer).
Offer to Prepay Notes.
Section 8.7
Section 8.7
"holder"
"Proposed Prepayment Date"
Section 8.7
     (d) A holder of the Notes may accept the offer to prepay made pursuant to this by causing a notice of such acceptance to be delivered to the Company at least 5 Business Days prior to the Proposed Prepayment Date. A failure by a holder
Acceptance; Rejection.
Section 8.7
 
of the Notes to respond to an offer to prepay made pursuant to this shall be deemed to constitute a rejection of such offer by such holder.
Section 8.7
          (e) Prepayment of the Notes to be prepaid pursuant to this shall be at 100% of the principal amount of such Notes, together with interest on such Notes accrued to the date of prepayment. The prepayment shall be made on the Proposed Prepayment Date except as provided in subparagraph (f) of this .
Prepayment.
Section 8.7
Section 8.7
          (f) The obligation of the Company to prepay Notes pursuant to the offers required by subparagraph (b) and accepted in accordance with subparagraph (d) of this is subject to the occurrence of the Change in Control in respect of which such offers and acceptances shall have been made. In the event that such Change in Control does not occur on the Proposed Prepayment Date in respect thereof, the prepayment shall be deferred until and shall be made on the date on which such Change in Control occurs. The Company shall keep each holder of Notes reasonably and timely informed of (i) any such deferral of the date of prepayment, (ii) the date on which such Change in Control and the prepayment are expected to occur, and (iii) any determination by the Company that efforts to effect such Change in Control have ceased or been abandoned (in which case the offers and acceptances made pursuant to this in respect of such Change in Control shall be deemed rescinded).
Deferral Pending Change in Control.
Section 8.7
Section 8.7
          (g) Each offer to prepay the Notes pursuant to this shall be accompanied by a certificate, executed by a Senior Financial Officer of the Company and dated the date of such offer, specifying: (i) the Proposed Prepayment Date; (ii) that such offer is made pursuant to this ; (iii) the principal amount of each Note offered to be prepaid; (iv) the interest that would be due on each Note offered to be prepaid, accrued to the Proposed Prepayment Date; (v) that the conditions of this have been fulfilled; and (vi) in reasonable detail, the nature and date or proposed date of the Change in Control.
Officer's Certificate.
Section 8.7
Section 8.7
Section 8.7
          (h) means any of the following events or circumstances:
"Change in Control" Defined. "Change in Control"
if any Person or Persons acting in concert (other than the Persons who own voting stock of the Company on the date hereof), together with Affiliates thereof, shall in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, control or own (beneficially or otherwise) more than 50% (by number of shares) of the issued and outstanding voting stock of the Company; or
          (i) means:
"Control Event" Defined. "Control Event"
          (i) the execution by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates of any agreement or letter of intent with respect to any proposed transaction or event or series of transactions or events which, individually or in the aggregate, may reasonably be expected to result in a Change in Control,
 
          (ii) the execution of any written agreement which, when fully performed by the parties thereto, would result in a Change in Control, or
          (iii) the making of any written offer by any person (as such term is used in section 13(d) and section 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act as in effect on the date of the Closing) or related persons constituting a group (as such term is used in Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act as in effect on the date of the Closing) to the holders of the common stock of the Company, which offer, if accepted by the requisite number of holders, would result in a Change in Control.
Section 9.
Affirmative Covenants.
          The Company covenants that so long as any of the Notes are outstanding:
     . Without limiting , the Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, ordinances or governmental rules or regulations to which each of them is subject, including, without limitation, ERISA, the USA Patriot Act and Environmental Laws, and will obtain and maintain in effect all licenses, certificates, permits, franchises and other governmental authorizations necessary to the ownership of their respective properties or to the conduct of their respective businesses, in each case to the extent necessary to ensure that non-compliance with such laws, ordinances or governmental rules or regulations or failures to obtain or maintain in effect such licenses, certificates, permits, franchises and other governmental authorizations would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 9.1. Compliance with Law
Section 10.7
     . The Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurers, insurance with respect to their respective properties and businesses against such casualties and contingencies, of such types, on such terms and in such amounts (including deductibles, co-insurance and self-insurance, if adequate reserves are maintained with respect thereto) as is customary in the case of entities of established reputations engaged in the same or a similar business and similarly situated except for any non-maintenance that would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 9.2. Insurance
     . The Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain and keep, or cause to be maintained and kept, their respective properties in good repair, working order and condition (other than ordinary wear and tear), so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly conducted at all times, that this Section shall not prevent the Company or any Subsidiary from discontinuing the operation and the maintenance of any of its properties if such discontinuance is desirable in the conduct of its business and the Company has concluded that such discontinuance would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 9.3. Maintenance of Properties
provided
     . The Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, file all tax returns required to be filed in any jurisdiction and to pay and discharge all taxes shown to be due and payable on such returns and all other taxes, assessments, governmental charges, or levies imposed on them or any of their properties, assets, income or
Section 9.4. Payment of Taxes and Claims
 
franchises, to the extent such taxes and assessments have become due and payable and before they have become delinquent and all claims for which sums have become due and payable that have or might become a Lien on properties or assets of the Company or any Subsidiary not permitted by , that neither the Company nor any Subsidiary need pay any such tax or assessment or claims if (i) the amount, applicability or validity thereof is contested by the Company or such Subsidiary on a timely basis in good faith and in appropriate proceedings, and the Company or a Subsidiary has established adequate reserves therefor in accordance with GAAP on the books of the Company or such Subsidiary or (ii) the non-filing or nonpayment, as the case may be, of all such taxes and assessments in the aggregate would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 10.3
provided
     . Subject to and , the Company will at all times preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, and will at all times preserve and keep in full force and effect the existence of each of its Subsidiaries (unless merged into the Company or a Subsidiary) and all rights and franchises of the Company and its Subsidiaries unless, in the good faith judgment of the Company, the termination of or failure to preserve and keep in full force and effect such existence, right or franchise would not, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 9.5. Existence, Etc
Sections 10.4
10.5
     The Notes and all other obligations under this Agreement of the Company are and at all times shall remain direct and unsecured obligations of the Company ranking as against the assets of the Company with all other Notes from time to time issued and outstanding hereunder without any preference among themselves and with all Debt outstanding under the Bank Credit Agreement and all other present and future unsecured Debt (actual or contingent) of the Company which is not expressed to be subordinate or junior in rank to any other unsecured Debt of the Company.
Section 9.6. Notes to Rank Pari Passu.
pari passu
pari passu
     . The Company will cause (i) each Material Subsidiary and (ii) any other Subsidiary which is required by the terms of the Bank Credit Agreement to become a party to, or otherwise guarantee, Debt in respect of the Bank Credit Agreement (other than, in each case, any Foreign Subsidiary that is a borrower, or a guarantor of Debt of any other Foreign Subsidiary, under the Bank Credit Agreement), to enter into the Subsidiary Guaranty and deliver to each of the holders of the Notes the following items:
Section 9.7
.
Additional Subsidiary Guarantors
          (a) a joinder agreement in respect of the Subsidiary Guaranty;
          (b) a certificate signed by an authorized Responsible Officer of the Company making representations and warranties to the effect of those contained in , and , with respect to such Subsidiary and the Subsidiary Guaranty, as applicable; and
Sections 5.4
5.6
5.7
          (c) an opinion of counsel (who may be in-house counsel for the Company) addressed to each of the holders of the Notes satisfactory to the Required Holders, to the effect that the Subsidiary Guaranty by such Person has been duly authorized, executed and delivered and that the Subsidiary Guaranty constitutes the legal, valid and binding contract and agreement of such Person enforceable in accordance with its terms, except
 
as an enforcement of such terms may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance and similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles.
     The Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain proper books of record and account in conformity with GAAP and all applicable requirements of any Governmental Authority having legal or regulatory jurisdiction over the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be.
Section 9.8. Books and Records.
Section 10.
Negative Covenants.
          The Company covenants that so long as any of the Notes are outstanding:
     The Company will not at any time permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio to exceed 3.75 to 1.00.
Section 10.1. Consolidated Leverage Ratio.
     The Company will not permit the ratio of Consolidated EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Charges for each period of four consecutive fiscal quarters (calculated as at the end of each fiscal quarter for the four consecutive fiscal quarters then ended) to be less than 3.00 to 1.00.
Section 10.2. Interest Coverage Ratio.
     . The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly create, incur, assume or permit to exist (upon the happening of a contingency or otherwise) any Lien on or with respect to any property or asset (including, without limitation, any document or instrument in respect of goods or accounts receivable) of the Company or any such Subsidiary, whether now owned or held or hereafter acquired, or any income or profits therefrom, or assign or otherwise convey any right to receive income or profits (unless it makes, or causes to be made, effective provision whereby the Notes will be equally and ratably secured with any and all other obligations thereby secured, such security to be pursuant to an agreement reasonably satisfactory to the Required Holders and, in any such case, the Notes shall have the benefit, to the fullest extent that, and with such priority as, the holders of the Notes may be entitled under applicable law, of an equitable Lien on such property), except:
Section 10.3. Limitation on Liens
          (a) Liens for taxes, assessments or other governmental charges that are not yet due and payable or the payment of which is not at the time required by ;
Section 9.4
          (b) any attachment or judgment Lien, unless the judgment it secures shall not, within 60 days after the entry thereof, have been discharged or execution thereof stayed pending appeal, or shall not have been discharged within 60 days after the expiration of any such stay;
          (c) Liens incidental to the conduct of business or the ownership of properties and assets (including landlords', carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's and other similar Liens for sums not yet due and payable) and Liens to secure the performance of bids, tenders, leases, or trade contracts, or to secure statutory obligations
 
(including obligations under workers compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation), surety or appeal bonds or other Liens incurred in the ordinary course of business and not in connection with the borrowing of money;
          (d) leases or subleases granted to others, easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar charges or encumbrances, in each case incidental to the ownership of property or assets or the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or Liens incidental to minor survey exceptions and the like, that such Liens do not, in the aggregate, materially detract from the value of such property;
provided
          (e) Liens securing Debt of a Subsidiary to the Company or to a Subsidiary;
          (f) Liens existing as of the Closing Date and reflected in ;
Schedule 10.3
          (g) Liens incurred after the Closing Date given to secure the payment of the purchase price incurred in connection with the acquisition, construction or improvement of property (other than accounts receivable or inventory) useful and intended to be used in carrying on the business of the Company or a Subsidiary, including Liens existing on such property at the time of acquisition or construction thereof or Liens incurred within 365 days of such acquisition or completion of such construction or improvement, that (i) the Lien shall attach solely to the property acquired, purchased, constructed or improved; (ii) at the time of acquisition, construction or improvement of such property (or, in the case of any Lien incurred within 365 days of such acquisition or completion of such construction or improvement, at the time of the incurrence of the Debt secured by such Lien), the aggregate amount remaining unpaid on all Debt secured by Liens on such property, whether or not assumed by the Company or a Subsidiary, shall not exceed the lesser of (y) the cost of such acquisition, construction or improvement or (z) the Fair Market Value of such property (as determined in good faith by one or more officers of the Company to whom authority to enter into the transaction has been delegated by the board of directors of the Company); and (iii) at the time of such incurrence and after giving effect thereto, no Default or Event of Default would exist;
provided
          (h) any Lien existing on property of a Person immediately prior to its being consolidated with or merged into the Company or a Subsidiary or its becoming a Subsidiary, or any Lien existing on any property acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary at the time such property is so acquired (whether or not the Debt secured thereby shall have been assumed), that (i) no such Lien shall have been created or assumed in contemplation of such consolidation or merger or such Person's becoming a Subsidiary or such acquisition of property, (ii) each such Lien shall extend solely to the item or items of property so acquired and, if required by the terms of the instrument originally creating such Lien, other property which is an improvement to or is acquired for specific use in connection with such acquired property, and (iii) at the time of such incurrence and after giving effect thereto, no Default or Event of Default would exist;
provided
          (i) any extensions, renewals or replacements of any Lien permitted by the preceding subparagraphs (f), (g) and (h) of this , that (i) no
Section 10.3
provided
 
additional property shall be encumbered by such Liens, (ii) the unpaid principal amount of the Debt or other obligations secured thereby shall not be increased on or after the date of any extension, renewal or replacement, and (iii) at such time and immediately after giving effect thereto, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
          (j) Liens securing Debt of the Company or any Subsidiary, excluding Debt otherwise described in clauses (a)  (i) of this , not to exceed the greater of $50,000,000 or 10% of Consolidated Net Worth, determined as of the end of the then most recently ended fiscal quarter of the Company.
Section 10.3
     The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of any substantial part (as defined below) of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries; that the Company or any Subsidiary may sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets constituting a substantial part of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries if such assets are sold in an arms length transaction and, at such time and after giving effect thereto, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and an amount equal to the net proceeds received from such sale, lease or other disposition (but only with respect to that portion of such assets that exceeds the definition of "substantial part" set forth below) shall be used within 365 days of such sale, lease or disposition, in any combination:
Section 10.4. Sales of Assets.
provided, however,
          (1) to acquire productive assets used or useful in carrying on the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries and having a value at least equal to the value of such assets sold, leased or otherwise disposed of; and/or
          (2) to prepay or retire Senior Debt of the Company and/or its Subsidiaries, thatto the extent any such proceeds are used to prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Notes, such prepayment shall be made in accordance with the terms of ;
provided
,
Section 8.2
, that neither clause (1) nor clause (2) of this shall be used to permit the transfer of assets from the Company to any Subsidiary.
provided further
Section 10.4
     As used in this , a sale, lease or other disposition of assets shall be deemed to be a of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries if the book value of such assets, when added to the book value of all other assets sold, leased or otherwise disposed of by the Company and its Subsidiaries during the period of 12 consecutive months ending on the date of such sale, lease or other disposition, exceeds 10% of the book value of Consolidated Total Assets, determined as of the end of the fiscal quarter immediately preceding such sale, lease or other disposition; that there shall be excluded from any determination of a "substantial part" any (i) sale or disposition of assets in the ordinary course of business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, (ii) any transfer of assets from (x) the Company to a Subsidiary Guarantor or (y) any Subsidiary to the Company or a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company; that any transfer of assets from a Subsidiary Guarantor must be to the Company or another Subsidiary Guarantor and (iii) any sale or transfer of property acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary after the date of this Agreement to any Person within 365 days following the
Section 10.4
"substantial part"
provided
provided
 
acquisition or construction of such property by the Company or any Subsidiary if the Company or a Subsidiary shall concurrently with such sale or transfer, lease such property, as lessee.
     The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, consolidate with or merge with any other Person or convey, transfer or lease substantially all of its assets in a single transaction or series of transactions to any Person; that:
Section 10.5. Merger and Consolidation.
provided
     (1) any Subsidiary of the Company may (x) consolidate with or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease substantially all of its assets in a single transaction or series of transactions to, (i) the Company or a Subsidiary so long as in any merger or consolidation involving the Company, the Company shall be the surviving or continuing corporation or (ii) any other Person so long as the survivor is the Subsidiary, or (y) convey, transfer or lease all of its assets in compliance with the provisions of ; and
Section 10.4
     (2) the foregoing restriction does not apply to the consolidation or merger of the Company with, or the conveyance, transfer or lease of substantially all of the assets of the Company in a single transaction or series of transactions to, any Person so long as:
          (a) the successor formed by such consolidation or the survivor of such merger or the Person that acquires by conveyance, transfer or lease substantially all of the assets of the Company as an entirety, as the case may be (the ), shall be a solvent entity organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia;
"Successor Corporation"
          (b) if the Company is not the Successor Corporation, such Successor Corporation shall have executed and delivered to each holder of Notes its assumption of the due and punctual performance and observance of each covenant and condition of this Agreement and the Notes (pursuant to such agreements and instruments as shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Required Holders), and the Successor Corporation shall have caused to be delivered to each holder of Notes (A) an opinion of nationally recognized independent counsel, to the effect that all agreements or instruments effecting such assumption are enforceable in accordance with their terms and (B) an acknowledgment from each Subsidiary Guarantor that the Subsidiary Guaranty continues in full force and effect; and
          (c) immediately after giving effect to such transaction no Default or Event of Default would exist (or would have existed on the last day of the fiscal quarter immediately preceding such consolidation or merger and after giving effect thereto).
     . The Company will not and will not permit any Subsidiary to engage in any business if, as a result, the general nature of the business in which the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, would then be engaged would be substantially changed from the general nature of the business in which the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, are engaged on the date of this Agreement as described in the Memorandum.
Section 10.6. Line of Business
 
     . The Company will not and will not permit any Subsidiary to enter into directly or indirectly any Material transaction or Material group of related transactions (including without limitation the purchase, lease, sale or exchange of properties of any kind or the rendering of any service) with any Affiliate (other than the Company or another Subsidiary), except in the ordinary course and upon fair and reasonable terms that are not materially less favorable to the Company or such Subsidiary, taken as a whole, than would be obtainable in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate.
Section 10.7. Transactions with Affiliates
     . The Company will not and will not permit any Subsidiary to (a) become a Person described or designated in the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or in Section 1 of the Anti-Terrorism Order or (b) engage in any dealings or transactions with any such Person.
Section 10.8. Terrorism Sanctions Regulations
Section 11.
Events of Default.
          An shall exist if any of the following conditions or events shall occur and be continuing:
"Event of Default"
          (a) the Company defaults in the payment of any principal or Make-Whole Amount, if any, on any Note when the same becomes due and payable, whether at maturity or at a date fixed for prepayment or by declaration or otherwise; or
          (b) the Company defaults in the payment of any interest on any Note for more than five Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or
          (c) the Company defaults in the performance of or compliance with any term contained in or any Subsidiary Guarantor defaults in the performance of or compliance with any term of the Subsidiary Guaranty beyond any period of grace or cure period provided with respect thereto; or
Section 10
          (d) the Company defaults in the performance of or compliance with any term contained herein (other than those referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this ) and such default is not remedied within 30 days after the earlier of (i) a Responsible Officer obtaining actual knowledge of such default or (ii) the Company receiving written notice of such default from any holder of a Note (any such written notice to be identified as a "notice of default" and to refer specifically to this paragraph (d) of ); or
Section 11
Section 11
          (e) any Subsidiary Guaranty ceases to be a legally valid, binding and enforceable obligation or contract of a Subsidiary Guarantor (other than upon a release of any Subsidiary Guarantor from a Subsidiary Guaranty in accordance with the terms of hereof), or any Subsidiary Guarantor or any party by, through or on account of any such Person, challenges the validity, binding nature or enforceability of any such Subsidiary Guaranty; or
Section 2.
2(b)
 
          (f) any representation or warranty made in writing by or on behalf of the Company or Subsidiary Guarantor in this Agreement or any Subsidiary Guaranty or by any officer of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor in any writing furnished in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby or by any Subsidiary Guaranty proves to have been false or incorrect in any material respect on the date as of which made; or
          (g) (i) the Company or any Subsidiary is in default (as principal or as guarantor or other surety) in the payment of any principal of or premium or make-whole amount or interest (in the payment amount of at least $100,000) on any Debt other than the Notes that is outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of at least $25,000,000 beyond any period of grace provided with respect thereto, or (ii) the Company or any Subsidiary is in default in the performance of or compliance with any term of any instrument, mortgage, indenture or other agreement relating to any Debt other than the Notes in an aggregate principal amount of at least $25,000,000 or any other condition exists, and as a consequence of such default or condition such Debt has become, or has been declared, due and payable or one or more Persons has the right to declare such Debt to be due and payable before its stated maturity or before its regularly scheduled dates of payment, or (iii) as a consequence of the occurrence or continuation of any event or condition (other than the passage of time or the right of the holder of Debt to convert such Debt into equity interests), (x) the Company or any Subsidiary has become obligated to purchase or repay Debt other than the Notes before its regular maturity or before its regularly scheduled dates of payment in an aggregate outstanding principal amount of at least $25,000,000 or (y) one or more Persons have the right to require the Company or any Subsidiary to purchase or repay such Debt; or
          (h) the Company, any Material Subsidiary or any Subsidiary Guarantor (i) is generally not paying, or admits in writing its inability to pay, its debts as they become due, (ii) files, or consents by answer or otherwise to the filing against it of, a petition for relief or reorganization or arrangement or any other petition in bankruptcy, for liquidation or to take advantage of any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar law of any jurisdiction, (iii) makes an assignment for the benefit of its creditors, (iv) consents to the appointment of a custodian, receiver, trustee or other officer with similar powers with respect to it or with respect to any substantial part of its property, (v) is adjudicated as insolvent or to be liquidated, or (vi) takes corporate action for the purpose of any of the foregoing; or
          (i) a court or governmental authority of competent jurisdiction enters an order appointing, without consent by the Company, any of its Material Subsidiaries or any Subsidiary Guarantor, a custodian, receiver, trustee or other officer with similar powers with respect to it or with respect to any substantial part of its property, or constituting an order for relief or approving a petition for relief or reorganization or any other petition in bankruptcy or for liquidation or to take advantage of any bankruptcy or insolvency law of any jurisdiction, or ordering the dissolution, winding-up or liquidation of the Company, any of its Material Subsidiaries or any Subsidiary Guarantor, or any such petition shall be
 
filed against the Company, any of its Material Subsidiaries or any Subsidiary Guarantor and such petition shall not be dismissed within 60 days; or
          (j) a final judgment or judgments at any one time outstanding for the payment of money aggregating in excess of $25,000,000 are rendered against one or more of the Company, its Subsidiaries or any Subsidiary Guarantor and which judgments are not, within 60 days after entry thereof, bonded, discharged or stayed pending appeal, or are not discharged within 60 days after the expiration of such stay; or
          (k) if (i) any Plan shall fail to satisfy the minimum funding standards of ERISA or the Code for any plan year or part thereof or a waiver of such standards or extension of any amortization period is sought or granted under Section 412 of the Code, (ii) a notice of intent to terminate any Plan shall have been or is reasonably expected to be filed with the PBGC or the PBGC shall have instituted proceedings under Section 4042 of ERISA to terminate or appoint a trustee to administer any Plan or the PBGC shall have notified the Company or any ERISA Affiliate that a Plan may become a subject of any such proceedings, (iii) the aggregate "amount of unfunded benefit liabilities" (within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(18) of ERISA) under all Plans, determined in accordance with Title IV of ERISA, shall exceed $25,000,000, (iv) the Company or any ERISA Affiliate shall have incurred or is reasonably expected to incur any liability pursuant to Title I or IV of ERISA or the penalty or excise tax provisions of the Code relating to employee benefit plans, (v) the Company or any ERISA Affiliate withdraws from any Multiemployer Plan, or (vi) the Company or any Subsidiary establishes or amends any employee welfare benefit plan that provides post-employment welfare benefits in a manner that could increase the liability of the Company or any Subsidiary thereunder; and any such event or events described in clauses (i) through (vi) above, either individually or together with any other such event or events, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
As used in , the terms and shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in Section 3 of ERISA.
Section 11(k)
"employee benefit plan"
"employee welfare benefit plan"
Section 12.
Remedies on Default, Etc.
     . (a) If an Event of Default with respect to the Company described in paragraph (h) or (i) of (other than an Event of Default described in clause (i) of paragraph (h) or described in clause (vi) of paragraph (h) by virtue of the fact that such clause encompasses clause (i) of paragraph (h)) has occurred, all the Notes then outstanding shall automatically become immediately due and payable.
Section 12.1. Acceleration
Section 11
          (b) If any other Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, any holder or holders of more than 50% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding may at any time at its or their option, by notice or notices to the Company, declare all the Notes then outstanding to be immediately due and payable.
 
          (c) If any Event of Default described in paragraph (a) or (b) of has occurred and is continuing with respect to any Notes, any holder or holders of Notes at the time outstanding affected by such Event of Default may at any time, at its or their option, by notice or notices to the Company, declare all the Notes held by such holder or holders to be immediately due and payable.
Section 11
          Upon any Note's becoming due and payable under this or whether automatically or by declaration, such Note will forthwith mature and the entire unpaid principal amount of such Note, (i) all accrued and unpaid interest thereon (including, but not limited to, interest accrued thereon at the Default Rate) and (ii) the Make-Whole Amount, if any, determined in respect of such principal amount (to the full extent permitted by applicable law), shall all be immediately due and payable, in each and every case without presentment, demand, protest or further notice, all of which are hereby waived. The Company acknowledges, and the parties hereto agree, that each holder of a Note has the right to maintain its investment in the Notes free from repayment by the Company (except as herein specifically provided for) and that the provision for payment of a Make-Whole Amount, if any, by the Company in the event that the Notes are prepaid or are accelerated as a result of an Event of Default, is intended to provide compensation for the deprivation of such right under such circumstances.
Section 12.1
plus
     . If any Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, and irrespective of whether any Notes have become or have been declared immediately due and payable under , the holder of any Note at the time outstanding may proceed to protect and enforce the rights of such holder by an action at law, suit in equity or other appropriate proceeding, whether for the specific performance of any agreement contained herein or in any Note, or for an injunction against a violation of any of the terms hereof or thereof, or in aid of the exercise of any power granted hereby or thereby or by law or otherwise.
Section 12.2. Other Remedies
Section 12.1
     . At any time after the Notes have been declared due and payable pursuant to clause (b) or (c) of , the holders of not less than 51% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, by written notice to the Company, may rescind and annul any such declaration and its consequences if (a) the Company has paid all overdue interest on the Notes, all principal of and Make-Whole Amount, if any, on any Notes that are due and payable and are unpaid other than by reason of such declaration, and all interest on such overdue principal and Make-Whole Amount, if any, and (to the extent permitted by applicable law) any overdue interest in respect of the Notes, at the Default Rate, (b) neither the Company nor any other Person shall have paid any amounts which have become due solely by reason of such declaration, (c) all Events of Default and Defaults, other than non-payment of amounts that have become due solely by reason of such declaration, have been cured or have been waived pursuant to , and (d) no judgment or decree has been entered for the payment of any monies due pursuant hereto or to any Notes. No rescission and annulment under this will extend to or affect any subsequent Event of Default or Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 12.3. Rescission
Section 12.1
Section 17
Section 12.3
     . No course of dealing and no delay on the part of any holder of any Note in exercising any right, power or remedy shall operate as a waiver thereof or otherwise prejudice such holder's rights, powers or remedies. No
Section 12.4. No Waivers or Election of Remedies, Expenses, Etc
 
right, power or remedy conferred by this Agreement or by any Note upon any holder thereof shall be exclusive of any other right, power or remedy referred to herein or therein or now or hereafter available at law, in equity, by statute or otherwise. Without limiting the obligations of the Company under , the Company will pay to the holder of each Note on demand such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover all costs and expenses of such holder incurred in any enforcement or collection under this , including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees, expenses and disbursements.
Section 15
Section 12
Section 13.
Registration; Exchange; Substitution of Notes.
     s. The Company shall keep at its principal executive office a register for the registration and registration of transfers of Notes. The name and address of each holder of one or more Notes, each transfer thereof and the name and address of each transferee of one or more Notes shall be registered in such register. Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer, the Person in whose name any Note shall be registered shall be deemed and treated as the owner and holder thereof for all purposes hereof, and the Company shall not be affected by any notice or knowledge to the contrary. The Company shall give to any holder of a Note that is an Institutional Investor promptly upon request therefor, a complete and correct copy of the names and addresses of all registered holders of Notes.
Section 13.1. Registration of Note
     . Upon surrender of any Note to the Company at the address and to the attention of the designated officer (all as specified in ), for registration of transfer or exchange (and in the case of a surrender for registration of transfer accompanied by a written instrument of transfer duly executed by the registered holder of such Note or such holder's attorney duly authorized in writing and accompanied by the relevant name, address and other information for notices of each transferee of such Note or part thereof), within ten Business Days thereafter, the Company shall execute and deliver, at the Company's expense (except as provided below), one or more new Notes (as requested by the holder thereof) in exchange therefor, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unpaid principal amount of the surrendered Note. Each such new Note shall be payable to such Person as such holder may request and shall be substantially in the form of the Note originally issued hereunder. Each such new Note shall be dated and bear interest from the date to which interest shall have been paid on the surrendered Note or dated the date of the surrendered Note if no interest shall have been paid thereon. The Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any stamp tax or governmental charge imposed in respect of any such transfer of Notes. Notes shall not be transferred in denominations of less than $100,000, that if necessary to enable the registration of transfer by a holder of its entire holding of Notes, one Note may be in a denomination of less than $100,000. Any transferee, by its acceptance of a Note registered in its name (or the name of its nominee), shall be deemed to have made the representation set forth in , , that in lieu thereof such holder may (in reliance upon information provided by the Company, which shall not be unreasonably withheld) make a representation to the effect that the purchase by any holder of any Note will not constitute a non-exempt prohibited transaction under section 406(a) of ERISA.
Section 13.2. Transfer and Exchange of Notes
Section 18(iii)
provided
Section 6.3
provided
          The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act or under the securities laws of any state and may not be transferred or resold unless registered under the Securities Act and
 
all applicable state securities laws or unless an exemption from the requirement for such registration is available.
     . Upon receipt by the Company at the address and to the attention of the designated officer (all as specified in ) of evidence reasonably satisfactory to it of the ownership of and the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of any Note (which evidence shall be, in the case of an Institutional Investor, notice from such Institutional Investor of such ownership and such loss, theft, destruction or mutilation), and
Section 13.3. Replacement of Notes
Section 18(iii)
          (a) in the case of loss, theft or destruction, of indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it (that if the holder of such Note is, or is a nominee for, an original Purchaser or another holder of a Note with a minimum net worth of at least $50,000,000 or a Qualified Institutional Buyer, such Person's own unsecured agreement of indemnity shall be deemed to be satisfactory), or
provided
          (b) in the case of mutilation, upon surrender and cancellation thereof,
the Company at its own expense shall execute and deliver not more than five Business Days following satisfaction of such conditions, in lieu thereof, a new Note, dated and bearing interest from the date to which interest shall have been paid on such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Note or dated the date of such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Note if no interest shall have been paid thereon.
Section 14.
Payments on Notes.
     . Subject to , payments of principal, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest becoming due and payable on the Notes shall be made in New York, New York at the principal office of Banc of America, N.A. in such jurisdiction. The Company may at any time, by notice to each holder of a Note, change the place of payment of the Notes so long as such place of payment shall be either the principal office of the Company in such jurisdiction or the principal office of a bank or trust company in such jurisdiction.
Section 14.1. Place of Payment
Section 14.2
     . So long as any Purchaser or such Purchaser's nominee shall be the holder of any Note, and notwithstanding anything contained in or in such Note to the contrary, the Company will pay all sums becoming due on such Note for principal, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest by the method and at the address specified for such purpose for such Purchaser on hereto or by such other method or at such other address as such Purchaser shall have from time to time specified to the Company in writing for such purpose, without the presentation or surrender of such Note or the making of any notation thereon, except that upon written request of the Company made concurrently with or reasonably promptly after payment or prepayment in full of any Note, such Purchaser shall surrender such Note for cancellation, reasonably promptly after any such request, to the Company at its principal executive office or at the place of payment most recently designated by the Company pursuant to . Prior to any sale or other disposition of any Note held by any Purchaser or such Person's nominee, such Person will, at its election, either endorse thereon the amount of principal paid thereon and the last date to which interest has been paid thereon or
Section 14.2. Home Office Payment
Section 14.1
Schedule A
Section 14.1
 
surrender such Note to the Company in exchange for a new Note or Notes pursuant to . The Company will afford the benefits of this to any Institutional Investor that is the direct or indirect transferee of any Note.
Section 13.2
Section 14.2
Section 15.
Expenses, Etc.
     . Whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, the Company will pay all costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees of a special counsel for the Purchasers and, if reasonably required by the Required Holders, local or other counsel) incurred by each Purchaser and each other holder of a Note in connection with such transactions and in connection with any amendments, waivers or consents under or in respect of this Agreement or the Notes (whether or not such amendment, waiver or consent becomes effective), including, without limitation: (a) the costs and expenses incurred in enforcing or defending (or determining whether or how to enforce or defend) any rights under this Agreement or the Notes or in responding to any subpoena or other legal process or informal investigative demand issued in connection with this Agreement or the Notes, or by reason of being a holder of any Note; and (b) the costs and expenses, including financial advisors' fees, incurred in connection with the insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company or any Subsidiary or in connection with any work-out or restructuring of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the Notes. The Company will pay, and will save each Purchaser and each other holder of a Note harmless from, all claims in respect of any fees, costs or expenses if any, of brokers and finders (other than those, if any, retained by a Purchaser or other holder in connection with its purchase of the Notes).
Section 15.1. Transaction Expenses
     . The obligations of the Company under this will survive the payment or transfer of any Note, the enforcement, amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Notes, and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 15.2. Survival
Section 15
Section 16.
Survival of Representations and Warranties; Entire Agreement.
          All representations and warranties contained herein shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Notes, the purchase or transfer by any Purchaser of any such Note or portion thereof or interest therein and the payment of any Note may be relied upon by any subsequent holder of any such Note, regardless of any investigation made at any time by or on behalf of any Purchaser or any other holder of any such Note. All statements contained in any certificate or other instrument delivered by or on behalf of the Company pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed representations and warranties of the Company under this Agreement. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement and the Notes embody the entire agreement and understanding between the Purchasers and the Company and supersede all prior agreements and understandings relating to the subject matter hereof.
Section 17.
Amendment and Waiver.
     . (a) This Agreement and the Notes may be amended, and the observance of any term hereof or of the Notes may be waived (either retroactively or prospectively), with (and only with) the written consent of the Company and the Required
Section 17.1. Requirements
 
Holders, except that (i) no amendment or waiver of any of the provisions of , , , , , or hereof, or any defined term (as it is used in any such Section), will be effective as to any holder of Notes unless consented to by such holder of Notes in writing, and (ii) no such amendment or waiver may, without the written consent of all of the holders of Notes at the time outstanding affected thereby, (A) subject to the provisions of relating to acceleration or rescission, change the amount or time of any prepayment or payment of principal of, or reduce the rate or change the time of payment or method of computation of interest (if such change results in a decrease in the interest rate) or of the Make-Whole Amount on, the Notes, (B) change the percentage of the principal amount of the Notes the holders of which are required to consent to any such amendment or waiver, or (C) amend any of , , , , or .
Section 1
2
3
4
5
6
21
Section 12
Sections 8
11(a)
11(b)
12
17
20
     .
Section 17.2. Solicitation of Holders of Notes
          (a) The Company will provide each holder of the Notes (irrespective of the amount of Notes then owned by it) with sufficient information, sufficiently far in advance of the date a decision is required, to enable such holder to make an informed and considered decision with respect to any proposed amendment, waiver or consent in respect of any of the provisions hereof or of the Notes. The Company will deliver executed or true and correct copies of each amendment, waiver or consent effected pursuant to the provisions of this to each holder of outstanding Notes promptly following the date on which it is executed and delivered by, or receives the consent or approval of, the requisite holders of Notes.
Solicitation.
Section 17
          (b) The Company will not directly or indirectly pay or cause to be paid any remuneration, whether by way of supplemental or additional interest, fee or otherwise, or grant any security or provide other credit support, to any holder of Notes as consideration for or as an inducement to the entering into by any holder of Notes of any waiver or amendment of any of the terms and provisions hereof unless such remuneration is concurrently paid, or security is concurrently granted or other credit support is concurrently provided, on the same terms, ratably to each holder of Notes then outstanding even if such holder did not consent to such waiver or amendment.
Payment.
          (c) . Any consent made pursuant to this by a holder of Notes that has transferred or has agreed to transfer its Notes to the Company, any Subsidiary or any Affiliate of the Company and has provided or has agreed to provide such written consent as a condition to such transfer shall be void and of no force or effect except solely as to such holder, and any amendments effected or waivers granted or to be effected or granted that would not have been or would not be so effected or granted but for such consent (and the consents of all other holders of Notes that were acquired under the same or similar conditions) shall be void and of no force or effect except solely as to such holder.
Consent in Contemplation of Transfer
Section 17
     . Any amendment or waiver consented to as provided in this applies equally to all holders of Notes and is binding upon them and upon each future holder of any Note and upon the Company without regard to whether such Note has been marked to indicate such amendment or waiver. No such amendment or waiver will extend to or affect any obligation, covenant, agreement, Default or Event of Default not expressly amended or waived or impair any right consequent thereon. No course of dealing between the Company
Section 17.3. Binding Effect, Etc
Section 17
 
and the holder of any Note nor any delay in exercising any rights hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver of any rights of any holder of such Note. As used herein, the term "this Agreement" and references thereto shall mean this Agreement as it may from time to time be amended or supplemented.
     . Solely for the purpose of determining whether the holders of the requisite percentage of the aggregate principal amount of Notes then outstanding approved or consented to any amendment, waiver or consent to be given under this Agreement or the Notes, or have directed the taking of any action provided herein or in the Notes to be taken upon the direction of the holders of a specified percentage of the aggregate principal amount of Notes then outstanding, Notes directly or indirectly owned by the Company or any of its Affiliates shall be deemed not to be outstanding.
Section 17.4. Notes Held by Company, Etc
Section 18.
Notices.
          All notices and communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing and sent (a) by telecopy if the sender on the same day sends a confirming copy of such notice by a recognized overnight delivery service (charges prepaid), (b) by a recognized overnight delivery service (charges prepaid) or (c) by posting to IntraLinks, or a similar service reasonably acceptable to the Required Holders, if the sender on the same day sends or causes to be sent notice of such posting by electronic mail. Any such notice must be sent:
          (i) if to any Purchaser or its nominee, to such Purchaser or its nominee at the address or, in the case of clause (c) above, the e-mail address specified for such communications in to this Agreement, or at such other address or e-mail address as such Purchaser or nominee shall have specified to the Company in writing pursuant to this ;
Schedule A
Section 18
          (ii) if to any other holder of any Note, to such holder at such address or, in the case of clause (c) above, such e-mail address as such other holder shall have specified to the Company in writing pursuant to this ; or
Section 18
          (iii) if to the Company, to the Company at its address set forth at the beginning hereof to the attention of Chief Financial Officer, with a copy to the General Counsel, or at such other address as the Company shall have specified to the holder of each Note in writing.
Notices under this will be deemed given only when actually received.
Section 18
Section 19.
Reproduction of Documents.
          This Agreement and all documents relating thereto, including, without limitation, (a) consents, waivers and modifications that may hereafter be executed, (b) documents received by any Purchaser at the Closing (except the Notes themselves), and (c) financial statements, certificates and other information previously or hereafter furnished to any Purchaser, may be reproduced by such Purchaser by any photographic, photostatic, electronic, digital, or other
 
similar process and such Purchaser may destroy any original document so reproduced. The Company agrees and stipulates that, to the extent permitted by applicable law, any such reproduction shall be admissible in evidence as the original itself in any judicial or administrative proceeding (whether or not the original is in existence and whether or not such reproduction was made by such Purchaser in the regular course of business) and any enlargement, facsimile or further reproduction of such reproduction shall likewise be admissible in evidence. This shall not prohibit the Company or any other holder of Notes from contesting any such reproduction to the same extent that it could contest the original, or from introducing evidence to demonstrate the inaccuracy of any such reproduction.
Section 19
.
Section 20.
Confidential Information
          For the purposes of this , " means information delivered to any Purchaser by or on behalf of the Company or any Subsidiary in connection with the transactions contemplated by or otherwise pursuant to this Agreement that is proprietary in nature and that was clearly marked or labeled or otherwise adequately identified when received by such Purchaser as being either confidential information or material non-public information of the Company or such Subsidiary, that such term does not include information that (a) was publicly known or otherwise known to such Purchaser prior to the time of such disclosure, (b) subsequently becomes publicly known through no act or omission by such Purchaser or any Person acting on such Purchaser's behalf, (c) otherwise becomes known to such Purchaser other than through disclosure by the Company or any Subsidiary or (d) constitutes financial statements delivered to such Purchaser under that are otherwise publicly available. Each Purchaser will maintain the confidentiality of such Confidential Information in accordance with procedures adopted by such Purchaser in good faith to protect confidential information of third parties delivered to such Purchaser, that such Purchaser may deliver or disclose Confidential Information to (i) such Purchaser's directors, trustees, officers, employees, agents, attorneys and affiliates (to the extent such disclosure reasonably relates to the administration of the investment represented by such Purchaser's Notes), (ii) such Purchaser's financial advisors and other professional advisors who agree to hold confidential the Confidential Information substantially in accordance with the terms of this , (iii) any other holder of any Note, (iv) any Institutional Investor to which such Purchaser sells or offers to sell such Note or any part thereof or any participation therein (if such Person has agreed in writing prior to its receipt of such Confidential Information to be bound by the provisions of this ), (v) any Person from which such Purchaser offers to purchase any security of the Company (if such Person has agreed in writing prior to its receipt of such Confidential Information to be bound by the provisions of this ), (vi) any federal or state regulatory authority having jurisdiction over such Purchaser, (vii) the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or any similar organization, or any nationally recognized rating agency that requires access to information about such Purchaser's investment portfolio, or (viii) any other Person to which such delivery or disclosure may be necessary or appropriate (w) to effect compliance with any law, rule, regulation or order applicable to such Purchaser, (x) in response to any subpoena or other legal process, (y) in connection with any litigation to which such Purchaser is a party or (z) if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, to the extent such Purchaser may reasonably determine such delivery and disclosure to be necessary or appropriate in the enforcement or for the protection of the rights and remedies under such Purchaser's Notes, the Subsidiary Guaranty
Section 20
"Confidential Information
provided
Section 7.1
provided
Section 20
Section 20
Section 20
 
and this Agreement. Each holder of a Note, by its acceptance of a Note, will be deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to be entitled to the benefits of this as though it were a party to this Agreement. On reasonable request by the Company in connection with the delivery to any holder of a Note of information required to be delivered to such holder under this Agreement or requested by such holder (other than a holder that is a party to this Agreement or its nominee), such holder will enter into an agreement with the Company embodying the provisions of this .
Section 20
Section 20
Section 21.
Substitution of Purchaser.
          Each Purchaser shall have the right to substitute any one of its Affiliates as the purchaser of the Notes that it has agreed to purchase hereunder, by written notice to the Company, which notice shall be signed by both such Purchaser and such Affiliate, shall contain such Affiliate's agreement to be bound by this Agreement and shall contain a confirmation by such Affiliate of the accuracy with respect to it of the representations set forth in . Upon receipt of such notice, any reference to such Purchaser in this Agreement (other than in this ), shall be deemed to refer to such Affiliate in lieu of such original Purchaser. In the event that such Affiliate is so substituted as a Purchaser hereunder and such Affiliate thereafter transfers to such original Purchaser all of the Notes then held by such Affiliate, upon receipt by the Company of notice of such transfer, any reference to such Affiliate as a "Purchaser" in this Agreement (other than in this ), shall no longer be deemed to refer to such Affiliate, but shall refer to such original Purchaser, and such original Purchaser shall again have all the rights of an original holder of the Notes under this Agreement.
Section 6
Section 21
Section 21
Section 22.
Miscellaneous.
     . All covenants and other agreements contained in this Agreement by or on behalf of any of the parties hereto bind and inure to the benefit of their respective successors and assigns (including, without limitation, any subsequent holder of a Note) whether so expressed or not.
Section 22.1. Successors and Assigns
     . Anything in this Agreement or the Notes to the contrary notwithstanding (but without limiting the requirement in that the notice of any optional prepayment specify a Business Day as the date fixed for such prepayment), any payment of principal of or Make-Whole Amount or interest on any Note that is due on a date other than a Business Day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day without including the additional days elapsed in the computation of the interest payable on such next succeeding Business Day; that if the maturity date of any Note is a date other than a Business Day, the payment otherwise due on such maturity date shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and shall include the additional days elapsed in the computation of interest payable on such next succeeding Business Day.
Section 22.2. Payments Due on Non-Business Days
Section 8.4
provided
     . All accounting terms used herein which are not expressly defined in this Agreement have the meanings respectively given to them in accordance with GAAP. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, (i) all computations made
Section 22.3. Accounting Terms
 
pursuant to this Agreement shall be made in accordance with GAAP, and (ii) all financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     . Any provision of this Agreement that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall (to the full extent permitted by law) not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Section 22.4. Severability
     . Each covenant contained herein shall be construed (absent express provision to the contrary) as being independent of each other covenant contained herein, so that compliance with any one covenant shall not (absent such an express contrary provision) be deemed to excuse compliance with any other covenant. Where any provision herein refers to action to be taken by any Person, or which such Person is prohibited from taking, such provision shall be applicable whether such action is taken directly or indirectly by such Person.
Section 22.5. Construction
          For the avoidance of doubt, all Schedules and Exhibits attached to this Agreement shall be deemed to be a part hereof.
     . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original but all of which together shall constitute one instrument. Each counterpart may consist of a number of copies hereof, each signed by less than all, but together signed by all, of the parties hereto.
Section 22.6. Counterparts
     . This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the rights of the parties shall be governed by, the law of the State of New York excluding choice-of-law principles of the law of such State that would permit the application of the laws of a jurisdiction other than such State.
Section 22.7. Governing Law
     . (a) The Company irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any New York State or federal court sitting in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, over any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Company irrevocably waives and agrees not to assert, by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise, any claim that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of any such court, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court and any claim that any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
Section 22.8. Jurisdiction and Process; Waiver of Jury Trial
          (b) The Company consents to process being served by or on behalf of any holder of Notes in any suit, action or proceeding of the nature referred to in by mailing a copy thereof by registered or certified mail (or any substantially similar form of mail), postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to it at its address specified in or at such other address of which such holder shall then have been notified pursuant to said Section. The Company agrees that such service upon receipt (i) shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon it in any such suit, action or proceeding and (ii) shall, to the fullest extent
Section 22.8(a)
Section 18
 
permitted by applicable law, be taken and held to be valid personal service upon and personal delivery to it. Notices hereunder shall be conclusively presumed received as evidenced by a delivery receipt furnished by the United States Postal Service or any reputable commercial delivery service.
          (c) Nothing in this shall affect the right of any holder of a Note to serve process in any manner permitted by law, or limit any right that the holders of any of the Notes may have to bring proceedings against the Company in the courts of any appropriate jurisdiction or to enforce in any lawful manner a judgment obtained in one jurisdiction in any other jurisdiction.
Section 22.8
          (d)
The parties hereto hereby waive trial by jury in any action brought on or with respect to this Agreement, the Notes or any other document executed in connection herewith or therewith.
 
          The execution hereof by the Purchasers shall constitute a contract among the Company and the Purchasers for the uses and purposes hereinabove set forth. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each executed counterpart constituting an original but all together only one agreement.
 
Accepted as of the date first written above.
 
Accepted as of the date first written above.
 
Accepted as of the date first written above.
 
Accepted as of the date first written above.
 
Accepted as of the date first written above.
 
Accepted as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          As used herein, the following terms have the respective meanings set forth below or set forth in the Section hereof following such term:
          means the acquisition, by purchase or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the assets (or any part of the assets constituting all or substantially all of a business or line of business) of any Person, whether such acquisition is direct or indirect, including through the acquisition of the business of, or more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock of, such Person, and whether such acquisition is effected in a single transaction or in a series of related transactions, and the acquisition, by purchase or otherwise, of additional shares of the outstanding voting stock of any Subsidiary of the Company which is not then a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company.
"Acquisition"
          means, at any time, and with respect to any Person, (a) any other Person that at such time directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries Controls, or is Controlled by, or is under common Control with, such first Person, and (b) any Person beneficially owning or holding, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of any class of voting or equity interests of the Company or any Subsidiary or any Person of which the Company and its Subsidiaries beneficially own or hold, in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of any class of voting or equity interests. As used in this definition, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise. Unless the context otherwise clearly requires, any reference to an is a reference to an Affiliate of the Company.
"Affiliate"
"Control"
"Affiliate"
          means Executive Order No. 13,224 of September 24, 2001, Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions with Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit or Support Terrorism, 66 U.S. Fed. Reg. 49, 079 (2001), as amended.
"Anti-Terrorism Order"
          means the Credit Agreement dated as of August 24, 2007 by and among the Company, certain Subsidiaries of the Company named therein, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other financial institutions party thereto, as amended, restated, joined, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, and any renewals, extensions or replacements thereof, which constitute the primary bank credit facility of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
"Bank Credit Agreement"
          means the banks and financial institutions party to the Bank Credit Agreement.
"Bank Lenders"
          means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which commercial banks in New York, New York are required or authorized to be closed.
"Business Day"
          means, at any time, a lease with respect to which the lessee is required concurrently to recognize the acquisition of an asset and the incurrence of a liability in accordance with GAAP.
"Capital Lease"
 
          means, with respect to any Person and a Capital Lease, the amount of the obligation of such Person as the lessee under such Capital Lease which would, in accordance with GAAP, appear as a liability on a balance sheet of such Person.
"Capital Lease Obligation"
          means Investments held by the Company or any Subsidiary in the form of cash equivalents or short-term marketable debt securities.
"Cash Equivalent Investment"
          is defined in .
"Closing"
Section 3
          means the date of the Closing.
"Closing Date"
          means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time.
"Code"
          means Stericycle, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
"Company"
          is defined in .
"Confidential Information"
Section 20
          means as of any date of determination the total amount of all Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
"Consolidated Debt"
          means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis, an amount equal to Consolidated Net Income for such period, , (a) to the extent deducted in calculating such Consolidated Net Income and without duplication, (i) Consolidated Interest Charges for such period, (ii) the provision for Federal, state, local and foreign income taxes payable by the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period, (iii) depreciation and amortization expense, and (iv) other non-recurring expenses of the Company and its Subsidiaries reducing such Consolidated Net Income which do not represent a cash item in such period or any future period and minus (b) the following to the extent included in calculating such Consolidated Net Income (i) Federal, state, local and foreign income tax credits of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period, and (ii) all non-cash items increasing Consolidated Net Income for such period, provided that Consolidated EBITDA shall be increased by the amount of Transaction Costs incurred during such period to the extent such amount was deducted in determining Consolidated Net Income for such period. For purposes of calculating Consolidated EBITDA for any period of four consecutive quarters, if during such period the Company or any Subsidiary shall have made any Acquisition or disposed of any Person or of all or substantially all of the operating assets of any Person, Consolidated EBITDA for such period shall be calculated after giving pro forma effect thereto as if such transaction occurred on the first day of such period.
"Consolidated EBITDA"
plus
          means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) all interest, premium payments, debt discount, fees, charges and related expenses of the Company and its Subsidiaries in connection with borrowed money (including capitalized interest) or in connection with the deferred purchase price of assets, in each case to the extent treated as interest in accordance with GAAP, and (b) the
"Consolidated Interest Charges"
 
portion of rent expense of the Company and its Subsidiaries with respect to such period under capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations that is treated as interest in accordance with GAAP.
          means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a)(i) Consolidated Debt as of such date (ii) Unrestricted Cash as of such date to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of the four consecutive fiscal quarters most recently ended.
"Consolidated Leverage Ratio"
minus
          means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the net income of the Company and its Subsidiaries (including extraordinary losses, but excluding, except to the extent of extraordinary losses during such period, extraordinary gains) for that period.
"Consolidated Net Income"
          means the consolidated stockholder's equity of the Company and its Subsidiaries, as defined according to GAAP (but excluding minority interests).
"Consolidated Net Worth"
          means, as of any date of determination, the total amount of all assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
"Consolidated Total Assets"
          means, with respect to any Person, without duplication,
"Debt"
          (a) its liabilities for borrowed money;
          (b) its liabilities for the deferred purchase price of property acquired by such Person (excluding accounts payable and other accrued liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business but including, without limitation, all liabilities created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to any such property);
          (c) its Capital Lease Obligations;
          (d) its liabilities for borrowed money secured by any Lien with respect to any property owned by such Person (whether or not it has assumed or otherwise become liable for such liabilities); and
          (e) Guaranties by such Person with respect to liabilities of a type described in any of clauses (a) through (d) hereof.
          Debt of any Person shall include all obligations of such Person of the character described in clauses (a) through (e) to the extent such Person remains legally liable in respect thereof notwithstanding that any such obligation is deemed to be extinguished under GAAP.
          means an event or condition the occurrence or existence of which would, with the lapse of time or the giving of notice or both, become an Event of Default.
"Default"
 
          means with respect to the Notes that rate of interest that is the greater of (i) 2% per annum above the rate of interest stated in clause (a) of the first paragraph of the Notes or (ii) 2% over the rate of interest publicly announced by Bank of America, N.A. in New York, New York as its "base" or "prime" rate.
"Default Rate"
          is defined in .
"Disclosure Documents"
Section 5.3
          means any and all federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including but not limited to those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
"Environmental Laws"
          means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time in effect.
"ERISA"
          means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that is treated as a single employer together with the Company under section 414 of the Code.
"ERISA Affiliate"
          is defined in .
"Event of Default"
Section 11
          means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time in effect.
"Exchange Act"
          means, at any time and with respect to any property, the sale value of such property that would be realized in an arm's-length sale at such time between an informed and willing buyer and an informed and willing seller (neither being under a compulsion to buy or sell), as reasonably determined in the good faith opinion of the Company's board of directors.
"Fair Market Value"
          means a Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any state thereof.
"Foreign Subsidiary"
          means those generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time in the United States of America; provided that, if the Company notifies the Required Holders that the Company wishes to amend any negative covenants (or any definition hereof) to eliminate the effect of any change in generally accepted accounting principles on the operation of such covenant or definition, then the Company's compliance with such covenant or the meaning of such definition shall be determined on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles in effect immediately before the relevant change in generally accepted accounting principles became effective, until either such notice is withdrawn or such covenant is amended in a manner satisfactory to the Company and the Required Holders.
"GAAP"
          means
"Governmental Authority"
 
          (a) the government of
          (i) the United States of America or any state or other political subdivision thereof, or
          (ii) any other jurisdiction in which the Company or any Subsidiary conducts all or any part of its business, or which asserts jurisdiction over any properties of the Company or any Subsidiary, or
          (b) any entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of, or pertaining to, any such government.
          means, with respect to any Person, any obligation (except the endorsement in the ordinary course of business of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection) of such Person guaranteeing or in effect guaranteeing any Debt, dividend or other obligation of any other Person in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, including (without limitation) obligations incurred through an agreement, contingent or otherwise, by such Person:
"Guaranty"
          (a) to purchase such Debt or obligation or any property constituting security therefor primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Debt or obligation of the ability of any other Person to make payment of the Debt or obligation;
          (b) to advance or supply funds (i) for the purchase or payment of such Debt or obligation, or (ii) to maintain any working capital or other balance sheet condition or any income statement condition of any other Person or otherwise to advance or make available funds for the purchase or payment of such Debt or obligation;
          (c) to lease properties or to purchase properties or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Debt or obligation of the ability of any other Person to make payment of the Debt or obligation; or
          (d) otherwise to assure the owner of such Debt or obligation against loss in respect thereof.
          In any computation of the Debt or other liabilities of the obligor under any Guaranty, the Debt or other obligations that are the subject of such Guaranty shall be assumed to be direct obligations of such obligor.
          means any and all pollutants, toxic or hazardous wastes or other substances that might pose a hazard to health and safety, the removal of which may be required or the generation, manufacture, refining, production, processing, treatment, storage, handling, transportation, transfer, use, disposal, release, discharge, spillage, seepage or filtration of which is or shall be restricted, prohibited or penalized by any applicable law including, but not limited to, asbestos, urea formaldehyde foam insulation, polychlorinated biphenyls, petroleum, petroleum products, lead based paint, radon gas or similar restricted, prohibited or penalized substances.
"Hazardous Material"
 
     means, with respect to any Note, the Person in whose name such Note is registered in the register maintained by the Company pursuant to .
"holder"
Section 13.1
     means (a) any Purchaser of a Note, (b) any holder of a Note holding (together with one or more of its affiliates) more than $2,000,000 of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, and (c) any bank, trust company, savings and loan association or other financial institution, any pension plan, any investment company, any insurance company, any broker or dealer, or any other similar financial institution or entity, regardless of legal form.
"Institutional Investor"
     means all investments, in cash or by delivery of property made, directly or indirectly in any Person, whether by acquisition of shares of capital stock, Debt or other obligations or securities or by loan, advance, capital contribution or otherwise.
"Investments"
     means, for any period, the aggregate amount of fixed rental or operating lease expense payable by the Company and its Subsidiaries with respect to leases of real and personal property (excluding Capital Lease Obligations) determined in accordance with GAAP.
"Lease Rentals"
     means, with respect to any Person, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or other encumbrance, or any interest or title of any vendor, lessor, lender or other secured party to or of such Person under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement (other than an operating lease) or Capital Lease, upon or with respect to any property or asset of such Person (including, in the case of stock, shareholder agreements, voting trust agreements and all similar arrangements).
"Lien"
     is defined in .
"Make-Whole Amount"
Section 8.6
     means material in relation to the business, operations, affairs, financial condition, assets or properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
"Material"
     means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, operations, affairs, financial condition, assets or properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or (b) the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under this Agreement and the Notes, (c) the ability of any Subsidiary Guarantor to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty or (d) the validity or enforceability of this Agreement, the Notes or the Subsidiary Guaranty.
"Material Adverse Effect"
     means, at any time, any Subsidiary of the Company (i) which, as of the end of the then most recently ended fiscal quarter of the Company for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters then ended, contributes greater than 5% of Consolidated EBITDA (adjusted to eliminate the effect of intercompany transactions) for such period, (ii) the consolidated total assets reflected on the balance sheet of such Subsidiary as of the end of such fiscal quarter were greater than 5% of Consolidated Total Assets (adjusted to eliminate intercompany transactions) as of such date or the intellectual property rights of which are material to the operation of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole or (iii) which, as of the end of such fiscal quarter for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters
"Material Subsidiary"
 
then ended, contributes greater than 5% of consolidated revenue (adjusted to eliminate the effect of intercompany transactions) for such period.
     is defined in .
"Memorandum"
Section 5.3
     means any Plan that is a "multiemployer plan" (as such term is defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA).
"Multiemployer Plan"
     is defined in .
"Notes"
Section 1
     means a certificate of a Senior Financial Officer or of any other officer of the Company whose responsibilities extend to the subject matter of such certificate.
"Officer's Certificate"
     means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA or any successor thereto.
"PBGC"
     means an individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, association, trust, unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
"Person"
     means an "employee benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) subject to Title I of ERISA that is or, within the preceding five years, has been established or maintained, or to which contributions are or, within the preceding five years, have been made or required to be made, by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate or with respect to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate may have any liability.
"Plan"
     or means, unless otherwise specifically limited, real or personal property of any kind, tangible or intangible, choate or inchoate.
"property"
"properties"
     means the purchasers of the Notes named in hereto.
"Purchasers"
Schedule A
     means Prohibited Transaction Class Exemption 84-14 issued by the United States Department of Labor.
"QPAM Exemption"
     means any Person who is a qualified institutional buyer within the meaning of such term as set forth in Rule 144(a)(1) under the Securities Act.
"Qualified Institutional Buyer"
     means, at any time, the holders of not less than 51% in principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding (exclusive of Notes then owned by the Company or any of its Affiliates and any Notes held by parties who are contractually required to abstain from voting with respect to matters affecting the holders of the Notes).
"Required Holders"
     means any Senior Financial Officer and any other officer of the Company with responsibility for the administration of the relevant portion of this Agreement.
"Responsible Officer"
 
     means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time in effect.
"Securities Act"
     means, as of the date of any determination thereof, all Consolidated Debt, other than Subordinated Debt.
"Senior Debt"
     means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or comptroller of the Company.
"Senior Financial Officer"
     means all unsecured Debt of the Company which shall contain or have applicable thereto subordination provisions providing for the subordination thereof to other Debt of the Company (including, without limitation, the obligations of the Company under this Agreement or the Notes).
"Subordinated Debt"
     means, as to any Person, any corporation, association or other business entity in which such Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries or such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries owns sufficient equity or voting interests to enable it or them (as a group) ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, to elect a majority of the directors (or Persons performing similar functions) of such entity, and any partnership or joint venture if more than a 50% interest in the profits or capital thereof is owned by such Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries or such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries (unless such partnership can and does ordinarily take major business actions without the prior approval of such Person or one or more of its Subsidiaries). Unless the context otherwise clearly requires, any reference to a "Subsidiary" is a reference to a Subsidiary of the Company.
"Subsidiary"
     means each Subsidiary which is party to the Subsidiary Guaranty.
"Subsidiary Guarantor"
     is defined in of this Agreement.
"Subsidiary Guaranty"
Section 2.2
     means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
"Synthetic Lease Obligation"
     means extraordinary and non-recurring costs incurred by the Company or any Subsidiary (including fees of any consultant engaged by the Company or such Subsidiary to assist with due diligence matters) in effecting any Acquisition.
"Transaction Costs"
     means, at any time, cash and Cash Equivalent Investments of the Company and its Subsidiaries to the extent such cash and Cash Equivalent Investments are not subject to any Lien (other than a banker's Lien or right of setoff pursuant to customary deposit arrangements) or any restriction as to its use and is included in "cash and cash equivalents" and not "restricted cash" on the consolidated balance sheet of the Company.
"Unrestricted Cash"
 
     means United States Public Law 107-56, Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA PATRIOT ACT) Act of 2001, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder from time to time in effect.
"USA Patriot Act"
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     , the undersigned, (herein called the ), a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, hereby promises to pay to [] or registered assigns, the principal sum of [] (or so much thereof as shall not have been prepaid) on April 15, 2015 with interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) (a) on the unpaid balance hereof at the rate of 5.64% per annum from the date hereof, payable semiannually, on the fifteenth day of April and October in each year and at maturity, commencing on October 15, 2008, until the principal hereof shall have become due and payable, and (b) to the extent permitted by law, at a rate per annum from time to time equal to the Default Rate, on any overdue payment of interest and, during the continuance of an Event of Default, on the unpaid balance hereof and on any overdue payment of any Make-Whole Amount, payable semiannually as aforesaid (or, at the option of the registered holder hereof, on demand).
For Value Received
Stericycle, Inc.
"Company"
                    
                    
                    
Dollars
     Payments of principal of, interest on and any Make-Whole Amount with respect to this Note are to be made in lawful money of the United States of America at the principal office of Bank of America, N.A. in New York, New York or at such other place as the Company shall have designated by written notice to the holder of this Note as provided in the Note Purchase Agreement referred to below.
     This Note is one of a series of Senior Notes (herein called the ) issued pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 15, 2008 (as from time to time amended, supplemented or modified, the ), between the Company and the respective Purchasers named therein and is entitled to the benefits thereof. Each holder of this Note will be deemed, by its acceptance hereof, to have (i) agreed to the confidentiality provisions set forth in Section 20 of the Note Purchase Agreement and (ii) made the representations set forth in Section 6 of the Note Purchase Agreement, , that in lieu thereof such holder may (in reliance upon information provided by the Company, which shall not be unreasonably withheld) make a representation to the effect that the purchase by any holder of any Note will not constitute a non-exempt prohibited transaction under section 406(a) of ERISA. Unless otherwise indicated, capitalized terms used in this Note shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Note Purchase Agreement.
"Notes"
"Note Purchase Agreement"
provided
     This Note is a registered Note and, as provided in the Note Purchase Agreement, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer, duly endorsed, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer duly executed, by the registered holder hereof or such holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, a new Note for a like principal amount will be issued to, and registered in the name of, the transferee. Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer, the
 
Company may treat the person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for the purpose of receiving payment and for all other purposes, and the Company will not be affected by any notice to the contrary.
     Pursuant to the Subsidiary Guaranty Agreement dated as of April 15, 2008 (as amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time, the ), one or more Subsidiaries of the Company have absolutely and unconditionally guaranteed payment in full of the principal of, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest on this Note and the performance by the Company of its obligations contained in the Note Purchase Agreement all as more fully set forth in said Subsidiary Guaranty.
"Subsidiary Guaranty"
     If an Event of Default, as defined in the Note Purchase Agreement, occurs and is continuing, the principal of this Note may be declared or otherwise become due and payable in the manner, at the price (including any applicable Make-Whole Amount) and with the effect provided in the Note Purchase Agreement.
     This Note shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the rights of the issuer and holder hereof shall be governed by, the law of the State of New York excluding choice-of-law principles of the law of such State that would require the application of the laws of a jurisdiction other than such State.
 
 
 


