FILE:SRCL/SRCL-8K-20090626162500.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Please refer to Item 2.03 of this report.
Item 2.03
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
On June 24, 2009, we entered into a three-year term loan credit agreement withas administrative agent and a lender, other lenders party to the credit agreement, and a syndication agent to be determined.
Bank of America, N.A.,
The initial term loan under the term loan credit agreement was $50,000,000. During the six-month period following closing, we may request additional term loans up to an aggregate amount of $150,000,000. No existing lender will be required to participate in any such additional term loan, and if necessary in order to obtain the full amount of the additional term loan that we have requested, we may (with the administrative agents approval) invite new financial institutions to join the term loan credit agreement as additional lenders.
Term loans under the term loan credit agreement bear interest at fluctuating interest rates determined, for any one-month or other applicable interest period, by reference to the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, plus the applicable margin provided in the credit agreement. The applicable margin is based on our consolidated leverage ratio and ranges from 2.75% to 3.50%. As of June 24, 2009, the applicable margin was 3.0%.
During each calendar quarter ending June 30, September 30 and December 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011, we are required to repay 1.875% of  the principal amount of all term loans under the term loan credit agreement; and during each calendar quarter ending June 30, September 30 and December 31, 2011 and March 31, 2012, we are required to repay 2.50% of  the principal amount of all term loans. The unpaid balance of all term loans is repayable on June 24, 2012.
Term loans under the term loan credit agreement are unsecured obligations and rank with our other unsecured obligations, including those under our senior unsecured credit facility pursuant to our August 24, 2007 credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A. and the other lenders party to the credit agreement (our 2007 credit agreement).
pair passu
We applied the proceeds of the initial term loan under the term loan credit agreement to reduce our borrowings under our revolving credit facility under our 2007 credit agreement.
The term loan credit agreement contains customary events of default, including our failure to pay any principal, interest or other amount when due, our violation of certain of our affirmative covenants or any of our negative covenants, a breach of our representations and warranties, a change of control, or an event of default under our 2007 credit agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, payment of all term loans may be accelerated by the lender or
lenders.
A copy of the term loan credit agreement is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 8.01
Other Events
On June 22, 2009, we received a request from the U.S. Department of Justice for additional information in connection with our proposed acquisition of MedServe, Inc. The Department of Justice requested this additional information pursuant to the notification requirements of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (HSR).
The effect of the request for additional information is to extend the waiting period imposed by HSR until 30 days after we have submitted the information, unless the 30-day period is extended voluntarily by the parties or is terminated earlier by the Department of Justice.
Item 9.01
Financial States and Exhibits
(d)
Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed with this report:
10.1
Credit Agreement dated as of June 24, 2009 entered into by Stericycle, Inc., Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent and a lender, other lenders from time to time party to the Credit Agreement, and a syndication agent to be determined
This exhibit omits the schedules and exhibits that are listed following the table of contents in the credit agreement. We will furnish a copy of any omitted schedule or exhibit to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission supplementally upon request.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 26, 2009.
Stericycle, Inc.
By
/s/
FRANK J.M. TEN
BRINK
Frank J.M. ten Brink
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer

EXECUTION VERSION
ARTICLE I.
DEFINITIONS AND ACCOUNTING TERMS
1
1.01
Defined Terms.
1
1.02
Other Interpretive Provisions.
19
1.03
Accounting Terms.
20
1.04
Times of Day.
21
1.05
Excluded Entities.
21
ARTICLE II.
THE LOANS
22
2.01
Loans.
22
2.02
Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Loans.
22
2.03
[RESERVED].
23
2.04
[RESERVED].
23
2.05
Prepayments.
23
2.06
[RESERVED].
24
2.07
Repayment of Loans.
24
2.08
Interest.
24
2.09
Fees.
25
2.10
Computation of Interest and Fees.
25
2.11
Evidence of Debt.
26
2.12
Payments Generally; Administrative Agents Clawback.
26
2.13
Sharing of Payments by Lenders.
28
2.14
[RESERVED].
28
2.15
Increase in Commitments.
28
ARTICLE III.
TAXES, YIELD PROTECTION AND ILLEGALITY
30
3.01
Taxes.
30
3.02
Illegality.
32
3.03
Inability to Determine Rates.
33
3.04
Increased Costs; Reserves on Eurocurrency Rate Loans.
33
3.05
Compensation for Losses.
35
3.06
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders.
36
3.07
Survival.
36
ARTICLE IV.
CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO BORROWINGS
36
ARTICLE V.
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
37
5.01
Existence, Qualification and Power; Compliance with Laws.
37
5.02
Authorization; No Contravention.
38
5.03
Governmental Authorization; Other Consents.
38
5.04
Binding Effect.
38
5.05
Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect; No Internal Control Event.
38
5.06
Litigation.
39
Section
Page
5.07
No Default.
39
5.08
Ownership of Property; Liens.
39
5.09
Environmental Compliance.
40
5.10
Insurance.
40
5.11
Taxes.
40
5.12
ERISA Compliance.
40
5.13
Subsidiaries; Equity Interests.
41
5.14
Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act.
41
5.15
Disclosure.
41
5.16
Compliance with Laws.
42
5.17
 Intellectual Property; Licenses, Etc.
42
5.18
Material Subsidiaries.
42
ARTICLE VI.
AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS
42
6.01
Financial Statements.
42
6.02
Certificates; Other Information.
43
6.03
Notices.
45
6.04
Payment of Obligations.
46
6.05
Preservation of Existence, Etc.
46
6.06
Maintenance of Properties.
47
6.07
Maintenance of Insurance.
47
6.08
Compliance with Laws.
47
6.10
Inspection Rights.
48
6.11
Use of Proceeds.
48
6.12
[RESERVED].
48
6.13
Additional Subsidiary Guarantors.
48
6.14
Merger.
49
6.15
Further Assurances.
50
ARTICLE VII.
NEGATIVE COVENANTS
50
7.01
Liens.
50
7.02
Investments.
51
7.03
Indebtedness.
54
7.04
Fundamental Changes.
55
7.05
Dispositions.
55
7.06
Restricted Payments.
56
7.07
Change in Nature of Business.
57
7.08
Transactions with Affiliates.
58
7.09
 Burdensome Agreements.
58
7.10
Use of Proceeds.
58
7.11
Financial Covenants.
58
ARTICLE VIII.
EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES
58
8.01
Events of Default.
58
8.02
Remedies Upon Event of Default.
61
8.03
Application of Funds.
61
ARTICLE IX.
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT
62
9.01
Appointment and Authority.
62
9.02
Rights as a Lender.
62
9.03
Exculpatory Provisions.
62
9.04
Reliance by Administrative Agent.
63
9.05
Delegation of Duties.
64
9.06
Resignation of Administrative Agent.
64
9.07
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders.
65
9.08
No Other Duties, Etc.
65
9.10
Guaranty Matters.
66
ARTICLE X.
MISCELLANEOUS
66
10.01
Amendments, Etc.
66
10.02
Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication.
67
10.03
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies.
69
10.05
Payments Set Aside.
71
10.06
Successors and Assigns.
72
10.07
Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality.
76
10.08
Right of Setoff.
76
10.09
Interest Rate Limitation.
77
10.10
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness.
77
10.11
Survival of Representations and Warranties.
77
10.12
Severability.
78
10.13
Replacement of Lenders.
78
10.14
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc.
79
10.15
Waiver of Jury Trial.
80
10.16
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility.
80
10.17
USA PATRIOT Act Notice.
80
10.18
Judgment Currency.
81
SCHEDULES
2.01
Commitments and Applicable Percentages4.01
List of Closing Documents5.05
Supplement to Interim Financial Statements5.09
Environmental Compliance5.13
Subsidiaries and Other Equity Investments5.18
Material Subsidiaries6.14
List of Merger Documents7.01
Existing Liens7.02
Existing Investments7.03
Existing Indebtedness10.02
Administrative Agents Office; Certain Addresses for Notices
EXHIBITS
Form of
A
Committed Loan NoticeB
NoteC
Compliance CertificateD
Assignment and AssumptionE
Domestic Subsidiary Guaranty
This TERM LOAN CREDIT AGREEMENT () is entered into as of June 24, 2009, among STERICYCLE, INC.,a Delaware corporation (the  or the ), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the  and individually, a ), BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent and a Syndication Agent to be determined.
Agreement
Company
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
The Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a term loan credit facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
 means the acquisition, by purchase or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the assets (or any part of the assets constituting all or substantially all of a business or line of business) of any Person, whether such acquisition is direct or indirect, including through the acquisition of the business of, or more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of, such Person, and whether such acquisition is effected in a single transaction or in a series of related transactions, and the acquisition, by purchase or otherwise, of additional shares of the outstanding Voting Stock of any Subsidiary of the Company which is not then a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company.
Acquisition
 means Bank of America, in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
 means the Administrative Agents address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on , or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Company and the Lenders.
Administrative Agents Office
Schedule 10.02
 means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
 means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
 means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
 means with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Facility represented by (i) on or prior to the Closing Date, such Lenders Commitment at such time and (ii) thereafter, the principal amount of such Lenders Loans at such time. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Percentage
Schedule 2.01
 means the following percentages per annum, based upon the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as set forth in the most recent Compliance Certificate received by the Administrative Agent pursuant to :
Applicable Rate
Section 6.02(a)
Any increase or decrease in the Applicable Rate resulting from a change in the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall become effective as of the first Business Day immediately following the date a Compliance Certificate is delivered pursuant to ; , , that if a Compliance Certificate is not delivered when due in accordance with such Section, then Pricing Level IV shall apply as of the first Business Day after the date on which such Compliance Certificate was required to have been delivered. Subject to the proviso in the preceding sentence, the Applicable Rate in effect from the Closing Date until the date the first Compliance Certificate is delivered pursuant to shall be determined based upon Pricing Level III.
Section 6.02(a)
provided
however
Section 6.02(a)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this definition, the determination of the Applicable Rate for any period shall be subject to the provisions of .
Section 2.10(b)
 means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
 means Banc of America Securities LLC, in its capacity as sole lead arranger and book manager.
Arranger
 means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
 means an assignment and assumption entered into by a
Assignment and Assumption
Lender and an Eligible Assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by , and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Section 10.06(b)
Exhibit D
 means, on any date, (a) in respect of any capital lease of any Person, the capitalized amount thereof that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP, and (b) in respect of any Synthetic Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease payments under the relevant lease that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a capital lease.
Attributable Indebtedness
 means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
 means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
 means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1%, (b) the one-month Eurocurrency Rate plus 1.00% and (c) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its prime rate.  The prime rate is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of Americas costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
 means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
 has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
 has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
 means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Borrowing
Section 2.01
 means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agents Office with respect to Obligations is located and if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in Dollars are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
 means any Investment described in .
Cash Equivalent Investment
Section 7.02(b)
 means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
 means an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
(a)
any person or group (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have beneficial ownership of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire (such right, an ), whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of25% or more of the equity securities of the Company entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Company on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right);
option right
(b)
during any period of 24 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of the Company cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in and above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body (excluding, in the case of both and , any individua l whose initial nomination for, or assumption of office as, a member of that board or equivalent governing body occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than a solicitation for the election of one or more directors by or on behalf of the board of directors); or
clause (i)
clauses (i)
(ii)
clause (ii)
clause (iii)
(c)
any Person or two or more Persons acting in concert shall have acquired by contract or otherwise, or shall have entered into a contract or arrangement that, upon consummation thereof, will result in its or their acquisition of the power to exercise, directly or indirectly, a controlling influence over the management or policies of the Company, or control over the equity securities of the Company entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Company on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such Person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right) representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of such securities.
 means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with .
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Code
 means, as to each Lender, its obligation to make Loans to the Borrower pursuant to , in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the Dollar amount set forth opposite such Lenders name on .
Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement
 means a notice of (a) a Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Committed Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit A
 has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Company
 means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit C
 means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to Consolidated Net Income for such period plus (a) the following to the extent deducted in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (i) Consolidated Interest Charges for such period, (ii) the provision for Federal, state, local and foreign income taxes payable by the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period, (iii) depreciation and amortization expense, (iv) other non-recurring expenses of the Company and its Subsidiaries reducing such Consolidated Net Income which do not represent a cash item in such period or any future period and (v) non-cash stock compensation expenses of the Company and its Subsidiaries incurred in such period and minus (b) the following to the extent included in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (i) Federal, state, local and foreign income tax credits of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period and (ii) all non-cash items increasing Consolidated Net Income for such period; however, that Consolidated EBITDA shall be increased by the amount of Transaction Costs incurred during such period to the extent such amount was deducted in determining Consolidated Net Income for such period.
Consolidated EBITDA
provided,
 means, as of any date of determination, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) the outstanding principal amount of all obligations, whether current or long-term, for borrowed money (including Obligations hereunder) and all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments, (b) all purchase money Indebtedness, (c) all direct obligations arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments (other than letters of credit, bankers acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments to the extent supporting Indebtedness of the type described in and of this definition), (d) all obligations in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business), (e) Attributable Indebtedness in respect of capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations, (f) without duplication, all Guarantees with respect to outstanding Indebtedness of the types specified in through above of
Consolidated Funded Indebtedness
clauses (a)
(b)
clauses (a)
(e)
Persons other than the Company or any Subsidiary, and (g) all Indebtedness of the types referred to in through above of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which the Company or a Subsidiary is a general partner or joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to the Company or such Subsidiary.
clauses (a)
(f)
 means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) all interest, premium payments, debt discount, fees, charges and related expenses of the Company and its Subsidiaries in connection with borrowed money (including capitalized interest) or in connection with the deferred purchase price of assets, in each case to the extent treated as interest in accordance with GAAP, and (b) the portion of rent expense of the Company and its Subsidiaries with respect to such period under capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations that is treated as interest in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Interest Charges
 means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of the four prior fiscal quarters ending on such date to (b) Consolidated Interest Charges for such period.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
 means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) (i) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness as of such date (ii) Unrestricted Cash as of such date to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of the four fiscal quarters most recently ended.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
minus
 means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the net income of the Company and its Subsidiaries (including extraordinary losses, but excluding, except to the extent of extraordinary losses during such period, extraordinary gains) for that period.
Consolidated Net Income
 means, as of any date of determination, the total revenue of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Revenue
 means the consolidated subsidiaries of the Company as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Subsidiaries
 means, as of any date of determination, the total assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as of such date, determined in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Total Assets
 means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
 means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.  and  have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
 means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, examinership or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
 means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
 means an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Loan plus 2% per annum.
Default Rate
 means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute, or (c) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
Defaulting Lender
 or  means the sale, transfer, license, lease or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback transaction) of any property by any Person, including any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposal, with or without recourse, of any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith.
Disposition
Dispose
 and  mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
 means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
Domestic Subsidiary
 means any Subsidiary Guarantor that is a Domestic Subsidiary.
Domestic Subsidiary Guarantors
 means the Subsidiary Guaranty made by the Domestic Subsidiary Guarantors in favor of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, substantially in the form of .
Domestic Subsidiary Guaranty
Exhibit E
 means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under , and (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
 means on any date of determination, with respect to any proposed incurrence or assumption of any Indebtedness, any proposed making or acquisition of any Investment, or any proposed declaration, making or payment of a Restricted Payment, the requirement that (A) the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as of the end of the most recently ended fiscal quarter for which a Compliance Certificate has been delivered pursuant to (without giving pro forma effect to such proposed Indebtedness or Investment, as applicable) did
Enhanced Performance Condition
Section 6.02(a)
not exceed 3.50:1.00 and (B) the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as of the end of such fiscal quarter after giving pro forma effect (consistent with if applicable) to such proposed Indebtedness, Investment or Restricted Payment, as applicable, shall not exceed 3.50:1.00.
Section 1.03(c)
Enhanced Performance Noncompliance Date means the first date of determination upon which the Enhanced Performance Condition is not satisfied following a date of determination upon which the Enhanced Performance Condition was satisfied.
 means the first date of determination following an Enhanced Performance Noncompliance Date upon which of a Responsible Officer of the Company delivers a certificate to the Administrative Agent, prepared on a pro forma basis (consistent with if applicable), demonstrating compliance with the Enhanced Performance Condition after giving effect to any proposed Investment or Indebtedness.
Enhanced Performance Restoration Date
Section 1.03(c)
 means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
 means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Company, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
 means, with respect to any Person, all of the shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the warrants, options or other rights for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person or warrants, rights or options for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of such shares (or such other interests), and all of the other ownership or profit interests in such Person (including partnership, member or trust interests therein), whether voting or nonvoting, and whether or not such shares, warrants, options, rights or other interests are outstanding on any date of determination.
Equity Interests
 means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
 means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Company within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
 means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Sections 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appo intment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Company or any ERISA Affiliate.
ERISA Event
 means, for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for deposits in Dollars (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in Same Day Fund s in the approximate amount of the Eurocurrency Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of Americas London Branch (or other Bank of America branch or Affiliate) to major banks in the London or other offshore interbank market for Dollars at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate
BBA LIBOR
 means a Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurocurrency Rate.
Eurocurrency Rate Loan
 has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
 means, each of (i) Argentina Medam, B.A. Srl, an Argentina company, so long as it is not directly or indirectly wholly-owned by the Company and (ii) Medam S.A. de C.V., a Mexican company, so long as it is not directly or indirectly wholly-owned by the Company.
Excluded Entity
 means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient (each, a ) of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by such Recipients overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on such Recipient (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of
Excluded Taxes
Recipient
any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lenders failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholdin g tax pursuant to .
Section 10.13
Section 3.01(f)
Section 3.01(a)
 means, at any time, (a) on or prior to the Closing Date, the aggregate amount of the Commitments at such time and (b) thereafter, the aggregate principal amount of the Loans of all Lenders outstanding at such time.
Facility
 means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
 means the letter agreement, dated May 22, 2009, among the Company, the Administrative Agent and the Arranger.
Fee Letter
 means the sum of (a) the Initial Term Loan Amount and (b) the .
Final Term Loan Amount
aggregate principal amount of additional Loans, if any, drawn under
Section 2.15
 means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia.
Foreign Lender
 means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States, a State thereof or the District of Columbia.
Foreign Subsidiary
 means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
 means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
 means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in
GAAP
the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
 means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
 has the meaning specified in .
Granting Lender
Section 10.06(h)
 means, as to any Person, any (a) obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the ) in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as t o enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person, whether or not such Indebtedness or other obligation is assumed by such Person (or any right, contingent or otherwise, of any holder of such Indebtedness to obtain any such Lien). The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith. The term Guarantee as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
primary obligor
 means any Swap Contract to which the Company or any other Loan Party and any Lender (or any Affiliate of any Lender) is a party.
Guaranteed Swap Contract
 means each Domestic Subsidiary Guaranty and any other guaranty executed by any Subsidiary Guarantor in favor of the Administrative Agent, on behalf of the Lenders, in respect of the Obligations.
Guaranties
 means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum
Hazardous Materials
distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
 means, as to any Person at a particular time, without duplication, all of the following, whether or not included as indebtedness or liabilities in accordance with GAAP:
Indebtedness
(a)
all obligations of such Person for borrowed money and all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments;
(b)
all direct or contingent obligations of such Person arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments;
(c)
net obligations of such Person under any Swap Contract;
(d)
all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business );
and, in each case, not past due for a period of more than 120 days or, if overdue for more than 120 days, as to which a dispute exists and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP have been established on the books of such Person
(e)
indebtedness (excluding prepaid interest thereon) secured by a Lien on property owned or being purchased by such Person (including indebtedness arising under conditional sales or other title retention agreements), whether or not such indebtedness shall have been assumed by such Person or is limited in recourse;
(f)
capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations;
(g)
all obligations of such Person to purchase, redeem, retire, defease or otherwise make any payment in respect of any Equity Interest in such Person or any other Person, valued, in the case of a redeemable preferred interest, at the greater of its voluntary or involuntary liquidation preference accrued and unpaid dividends; and
plus
(h)
all Guarantees of such Person in respect of any of the foregoing.
For all purposes hereof, the Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to such Person. The amount of any net obligation under any Swap Contract on any date shall be deemed to be the Swap Termination Value thereof as of such date. The amount of any capital lease or Synthetic Lease Obligation as of any date shall be deemed to be the amount of Attributable Indebtedness in respect thereof as of such date.
 means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
 has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitees
Section 10.04(b)
 has the meaning specified in .
Information
Section 10.07
 has the meaning specified in .
Initial Term Loan Amount
Section 2.01
 means, (a) as to any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan, the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
 means, as to each Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurocurrency Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Rate Loan and ending on the date one, two, three or six months thereafter or, with the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) such shorter periods requested by the Company from time to time but in any event not more than six times during any calendar year, as selected by the Company in its Committed Loan Notice; that:
Interest Period
provided, further,
(i)
any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
(ii)
any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
(iii)
no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
 means a material weakness in, or fraud that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in, the Companys internal controls over financial reporting, in each case as described in the Securities Laws.
Internal Control Event
 means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect acquisition or investment by such Person, whether by means of (a) the purchase or other acquisition of capital stock or other securities of another Person, (b) a loan, advance or capital contribution to, Guarantee or assumption of debt of, or purchase or other acquisition of any other debt or equity participation or interest in, another Person, including any partnership or joint venture interest in such other Person and any arrangement pursuant to which the investor Guarantees Indebtedness of such other Person, or (c) an Acquisition. For purposes of covenant compliance, the amount of any Investment shall be the amount actually invested, without adjustment for subsequent increases or decreases in the value of such Investment.
Investment
 has the meaning specified in .
IP Rights
Section 5.17
 means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
 means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
 has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Lender
 means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lenders Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Company and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
 means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or preference, priority or other security interest or preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
 and  each has the meaning specified in .
Loan
Loans
Section 2.01
 means this Agreement, each Note, the Fee Letter and the Guaranties.
Loan Documents
 means, collectively, the Company and each Subsidiary Guarantor.
Loan Parties
 means (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, properties, liabilities (actual or contingent), condition (financial or otherwise) of the Company or the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of any Loan Party to perform its obligations under any Loan Document to which it is a party; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against any Loan Party of any Loan Document to which it is a party.
Material Adverse Effect
 means, as of any date of determination, any Subsidiary (i) which, as of the end of the then most recently ended fiscal quarter of the Company for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters then ended, contributes greater than five percent (5.0%) of Consolidated EBITDA (adjusted to eliminate the effect of intercompany transactions) for such period, (ii) the consolidated total assets reflected on the balance sheet of such Subsidiary as of the end of such fiscal quarter were greater than five percent (5.0%) of the Companys Consolidated Total Assets (adjusted to eliminate intercompany transactions) as of such date or
Material Subsidiary
the IP Rights of which are material to the operation of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole or (iii) which, as of the end of such fiscal quarter for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters then ended, contributes greater than five percent (5.0%) of Consolidated Revenue (adjusted to eliminate the effect of intercompany transactions) for such period.
 means MedServe, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
MedServe
 has the meaning specified in the Merger Agreement.
Merger
 means that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 9, 2009 by and among the Company, ATMW Acquisition Corp., MedServe and Avista Capital Partners, L.P.
Merger Agreement
 means June 24, 2012.
Maturity Date
 means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
 means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender to the Borrower, substantially in the form of .
Note
Exhibit B
 means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, any Loan Party arising under any Loan Document or any Guaranteed Swap Contract or otherwise with respect to any Loan, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
 means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
 means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under
Other Taxes
any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
 means, for any day, the greater of (i) the Federal Funds Rate and (ii) an overnight rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Overnight Rate
 has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
 means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
 means any employee pension benefit plan (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer or other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
Pension Plan
 means any Acquisition permitted under the terms of .
Permitted Acquisition
Section 7.02
 means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
 means any employee benefit plan (as such term is defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) established by the Company or, with respect to any such plan that is subject to Section 412 of the Code or Title IV of ERISA, any ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
 has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
 means, with respect to any Acquisition, (a) the aggregate amount of consideration for such Acquisition consisting of cash, Indebtedness directly or indirectly incurred or assumed in connection therewith (including, without limitation, Indebtedness of the Person subject to such Acquisition if effected as an acquisition of such Persons Equity Interests or merger of such Person with and into the Company or any existing Subsidiary) and contingent obligations to repurchase Equity Interests issued as part of the consideration for such Acquisition (b) the aggregate amount of any cash and cash equivalents acquired pursuant to such Acquisition or held by the Person subject to such Acquisition.
Purchase Price
minus
 has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
 has the meaning specified in the Securities Laws and shall be independent of the Company as prescribed by the Securities Laws.
Registered Public Accounting Firm
 means, with respect to any Person, such Persons Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Persons Affiliates.
Related Parties
 means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived.
Reportable Event
 means, as of any date of determination (a) in the event that the Facility is held or deemed held by two (2) or three (3) Lenders on such date, at least two (2) Lenders and (b) in all other cases, Lenders holding more than 50% of the Facility on such date; that the portion of the Facility held or deemed held by any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
provided
 means the chief executive officer, president or chief financial officer of a Loan Party. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of such Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of such Loan Party.
Responsible Officer
 means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any capital stock or other Equity Interest of the Company or any Subsidiary, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such capital stock or other Equity Interest, or on account of any return of capital to the Companys stockholders, partners or members (or the equivalent Person thereof).
Restricted Payment
 means that certain Credit Agreement dated as of August 24, 2007 among the Company, each Subsidiary party thereto as a Designated Borrower, the financial institutions party thereto, and Bank of America, as administrative agent, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Revolving Credit Agreement
 means the Loan Documents as such term is defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement.
Revolving Loan Documents
 means immediately available funds.
Same Day Funds
 means the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Sarbanes-Oxley
 means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
 means the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sarbanes-Oxley and the applicable accounting and auditing principles, rules, standards and practices promulgated, approved or incorporated by the SEC or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, as each of the foregoing may be amended and in effect on any applicable date hereunder.
Securities Laws
 means, as of any date of determination, the consolidated shareholders equity of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of that date determined in accordance with GAAP.
Shareholders Equity
 has the meaning specified in .
SPC
Section 10.06(h)
 of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a Subsidiary or to Subsidiaries shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Excluded Entity shall constitute a Subsidiary hereunder.
Subsidiary
(i) all of the Domestic Subsidiaries that are Material Subsidiaries as of the Closing Date, (ii) all new Persons that have become guarantors with respect to the Obligations (or any part thereof) after the Closing Date in accordance with and (iii) from and after the consummation of the Merger, MedServe, in each case subject to .
 means, at any time, collectively,
Subsidiary Guarantors
Section 6.13(a)
Section 9.10
 means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subje ct to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a ), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Swap Contract
Master Agreement
 means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in , the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
Swap Termination Value
clause (a)
 means a Person designated by the Administrative Agent and notified to the Borrower, in its capacity as syndication agent.
Syndication Agent
 means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
Synthetic Lease Obligation
 means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
 means .
Threshold Amount
$25,000,000
 means (i) extraordinary and non-recurring costs in respect of fees payable to the Administrative Agent and the Arranger on or prior to the Closing Date pursuant to the Fee Letter and the other costs and expenses incurred by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the Loan Documents and (ii) all costs and expenses incurred by the Company or any Subsidiary (including fees of any consultant engaged by the Company or such Subsidiary to assist with due diligence matters) in effecting any Permitted Acquisition.
Transaction Costs
 means, with respect to a Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurocurrency Rate Loan.
Type
 means the excess of a Pension Plans benefit liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over the current value of that Pension Plans assets, determined in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the applicable plan year.
Unfunded Pension Liability
 and  mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
 means, at any time, cash and Cash Equivalent Investments of the Company and its Subsidiaries to the extent such cash and Cash Equivalent Investments are not subject to any Lien (other than a bankers Lien or right of setoff pursuant to customary deposit arrangements) or any restriction as to its use and is included in cash and cash equivalents and not restricted Cash on the consolidated balance sheet of the Company.
Unrestricted Cash
 means, with respect to any Person, Equity Interests of any class or kind ordinarily having the power to vote for the election of directors, managers or other voting members of the governing body of such Person.
Voting Stock
With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
(a)
The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words ,  and  shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase without limitation. The word  shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word . Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifi cations set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Persons successors and assigns, (iii) the words ,  and , and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words & #8221; and  shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
include
includes
including
will
shall
herein
hereof
hereunder
asset
property
(b)
In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word  means ; the words  and  each mean ; and the word  means .
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
(c)
Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
(a)
. All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
Generally
except
(b)
. If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Company or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Company shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); , until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Company shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
Changes in GAAP
provided
that
(c)
. For purposes of computing the Consolidated Leverage Ratio and the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio, such ratios (and any financial calculations or components required to be made or included therein) shall be determined, with respect to the relevant period, after giving pro forma effect to each Acquisition and Disposition of a Person, business or asset consummated during such period, together with all transactions relating thereto consummated during such period (including any incurrence, assumption, refinancing or repayment of Indebtedness), as if such Acquisition, Disposition and related transactions had been consummated on the first day of such period, in each case (i) based on historical results accounted for in accordance with GAAP and (ii) prepared in accordance with Regulation S-X under the Securities Act of 1933, as in effect on the Closing Date (, that cost s avings expected to be realized following an Acquisition in respect of the elimination of duplicative positions and the closing of duplicative facilities may be reflected in such determination as if such cost savings had been effected as of the beginning of such period, so long as (x) such elimination and/or closings are implemented by the business that was the subject of any such Acquisition within six months of the date of such Acquisition and are supportable and quantifiable by the underlying accounting records of such business and (y) all cost increases expected to be incurred following such Acquisition are also reflected in such determination as if such cost increases had been incurred as of the beginning of such period), and, with respect to all calculations made in and , to the extent applicable, based upon reasonable assumptions that are specified in reasonable detail in the relevant Compliance Certificate or other certificate furnished to the Administrative Agent in conn ection with the terms of this Agreement.
Pro Forma Basis
provided
clauses (i)
(ii)
Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Central time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
For the avoidance of doubt, the parties hereto acknowledge and agree that (a) the Consolidated Leverage Ratio and the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio and other financial accounting terms used herein with reference to the Companys Subsidiaries as opposed to the Companys Consolidated Subsidiaries will be calculated without giving effect to the financial performance or condition of any Excluded Entity and (b) the representations, warranties and covenants set forth in (other than and ), (other than and ) and , each of which refers to the Companys Subsidiaries as opposed to the Companys Consolidated Subsidiaries, shall not be made with respect to, require any performance by or behalf of or restrict the op erations of, any Excluded Entity.
Article V
Section 5.05
5.09
Article VI
Section 6.01
Section 6.02
Article VII
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make a single loan (collectively, the ) to the Borrower in Dollars on the Closing Date, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000 (the ). The Borrowing shall consist of Loans made simultaneously by the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments. Amounts borrowed under this . Subject to and , all Loans shall be Eurocurrency Rate Loans.  
Loans
Initial Term Loan Amount
Section 2.01 and repaid or prepaid may not be reborrowed
Sections 3.02
3.03
(a)
Each Borrowing, each conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be made upon the Companys irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 p.m. three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Company pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Committed Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company. Each conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Each Committed Loan Notice (whether telephonic or w ritten) shall specify (i) whether the Company is requesting a Borrowing, a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, and (iv) the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Company fails to give a timely notice requesting a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, then the applicable Loans shall be continued as Eurocurrency Rate Loans with an Interest Period of one month. If the Company requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in any such Committed Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month. Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing, Eurocurrency Rate Loans may not be converted to Base Rate Loans except pursuant to or .
Section 2.02(a)
Sections 3.02
3.03
(b)
Following receipt of a Committed Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Loans if such Committed Loan Notice relates to a Borrowing. In the case of a Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Loan available to the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds at the Administrative Agents Office not later than 2:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Committed Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in , the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Company.
Section 4.01
(c)
Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurocurrency Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurocurrency Rate Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders.
(d)
The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Company and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurocurrency Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders of any change in Bank of Americas prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
(e)
After giving effect to all Borrowings, all conversions of Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to Loans.
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 p.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurocurrency Loans are to be pre paid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lenders Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Company, the Company shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
provided
Section 3.05
The Borrower shall repay the Loans to the Lenders in quarterly installments on the last business day of each calendar quarter, commencing on June 30, 2010. During each calendar quarter ending on the date set forth below, the Loans will amortize in an amount equal to the percentage set forth below of the Final Term Loan Amount;
, , that the final principal repayment installment of the Loans shall be repaid on the Maturity Date and in any event shall be in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of Loans made to the Borrower outstanding on such date.
provided
however
(a)
Subject to the provisions of below, (i) each Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate and (ii) each Base Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate.
subsection (b)
plus
plus
(b)
If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate but in no event greater than as may be permitted by applicable Laws.
(c)
If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(d)
Upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, the Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(e)
Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
(f)
Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
(a)
The Company shall pay to the Arranger and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts, in Dollars, fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letter. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
(b)
The Company shall pay to the Lenders, in Dollars, such fees as shall have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
(a)
All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by Bank of Americas prime rate shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365 or 366 day year). Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, , that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and bind ing for all purposes, absent manifest error.
provided
Section 2.12(a)
(b)
If, as a result of any restatement of the financial statements of the Company or for any other reason, the Company or the Lenders reasonably determine that (i) the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as calculated by the Company as of any applicable date was inaccurate and (ii) a proper calculation of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio would have resulted in higher or lower pricing for such period either (x) in the case of higher pricing, the Borrower shall immediately and retroactively be obligated to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable Lenders, promptly on demand by the Administrative Agent (or, after the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, automatically and without further action by the Administrative Agent or any Lender), an amount equal to the excess of the amount of interest and fe es that should have been paid for such period over the amount of interest and fees actually paid for such period or (y) in the case of lower pricing, the Lenders shall immediately and retroactively be obligated to pay the Borrower promptly on demand by the Borrower, an amount equal to the excess of the amount of interest and fees that was paid by the Borrower for such period over the amount of interest and fees that should have been paid for such period. This paragraph shall not limit the rights of the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the case may be, under or under . The Borrowers obligations under this paragraph shall survive the termination of the Facility and the repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
Section 2.08(b)
Article VIII
The Borrowings made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Borrowings made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender to the Borro wer made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lenders Loans to the Borrower in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to a Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
(a)
. All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agents Office in Dollars and in Same Day Funds not later than 1:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent may require that any payments due under this Agreement be made in the United States. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lenders Lending Office. All payments received by th e Administrative Agent after 1:00 p.m. shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
General
(b)
(i)
. Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing of Eurocurrency Rate Loans that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lenders share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is ma de available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the Overnight Rate, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lenders Loan included in such Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
(ii)
. Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender, in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the Overnight Rate.
Payments by Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
subsection (b)
(c)
. If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender to the Borrower as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Borrowing set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
(d)
. The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Sections 2.10(b)(ii)(y) and 10.04(c)
Sections 2.10(b)(ii)(y) and 10.04(c)
Sections 2.10(b)(ii)(y) and 10.04(c)
(e)
. Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Loans made by it resulting in such Lenders receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
pro
rata
provided
(i)
if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
(ii)
the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans, other than to the Company or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrowerrights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
(a)
. Provided there exists no Default, upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders), the Company may from time to time after the Closing Date and on or prior to December 24, 2009, request an increase in the Loans by an amount (for all such requests) not exceeding $150,000,000; that any such request for an increase shall be in a minimum amount of $10,000,000. At the time of sending such notice, the Company (in consultation with the Administrative Agent) shall specify the time period within which each Lender is requested to respond (which shall in no event be less than ten Business Days from the date of delivery of such notice to the Lenders).
Request for Increase
provided
(b)
. Each Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent within such time period whether or not it agrees to increase its Loans and, if so, whether by an amount equal to, greater than, or less than its ratable portion (based on such Lenders Applicable Percentage in respect of the Facility) of such requested increase. Any Lender not responding within such time period shall be deemed to have declined to increase its Loans.
Lender Elections to Increase
(c)
. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and each Lender of the Lenders responses to each request made hereunder. To achieve the full amount of a requested increase and subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), the Company may also invite additional Eligible Assignees to become Lenders pursuant to a joinder agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
Notification by Administrative Agent; Additional Lenders
(d)
. If the Loans are increased in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent and the Company shall determine the effective date (the ) and the final allocation of such increase. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Company and the Lenders of the final allocation of such increase and the Increase Effective Date.
Effective Date and Allocations
Increase Effective Date
(e)
. Any such increase is subject to the following conditions precedent:
Conditions to Effectiveness of Increase
(i)
the Company shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of each Loan Party dated as of the Increase Effective Date (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of such Loan Party (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by such Loan Party approving or consenting to such increase, and (ii) in the case of the Company, certifying that, before and after giving effect to such increase, (A) the representations and warranties contained in and the other Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the Increase Effective Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in
Article V
Section 2.15
subsections (a)
and
(b)
of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to
Section 5.05
clauses (a)
and
(b)
, respectively, of , and (B) no Default exists, or would result from such proposed increase or the application of the proceeds thereof;
Section 6.01
(ii)
the Company shall deliver to the Administrative Agent each of the assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders reasonably may require;
(iii)
the Administrative Agent shall have received from the Company, in immediately available funds, all fees required under any fee letter executed in connction with such increase, which fees shall be fully earned and non-refundable when due and payable;
(iv)
unless waived by the Administrative Agent or the Arranger, respectively, the Company shall have paid all fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and the Arranger, respectively, to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Increase Effective Date, plus such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Company and the Administrative Agent); and
(v)
the Company shall deliver to the Administrative Agent
a Committed Loan Notice in accordance with the requirements hereof.
(f)
. This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Sections 2.13
10.01
(a)
. Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, that if the Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable l aw.
Payments Free of Taxes
provided
(b)
. Without limiting the provisions of above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
subsection (a)
(c)
. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, within 10 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
 Indemnification by the Borrower
(d)
. As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
(e)
. If the Administrative Agent or any Lender determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the B orrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
provided
(f)
. Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements.
Status of Lenders
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any Foreign Lender shall deliver to Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
(i)
duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
(ii)
duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
(iii)
in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a bank within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a 10 percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a controlled foreign corporation described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
(iv)
any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
Without limiting the obligations of the Lenders set forth above regarding delivery of certain forms and documents to establish each Lenders status for U.S. withholding tax purposes, each Lender agrees promptly to deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Borrower, as the Administrative Agent or the Borrower shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Closing Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such other documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any other jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by such Lender, as are required under such Laws to confirm such Lenders entitlement to any available exemption from, or reduction of, applicable withholding taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Lender outside of the U.S. by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise to establish such Lenders status for withholding tax purpo ses in such other jurisdiction. Each Lender shall promptly (i) notify the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any such claimed exemption or reduction, and (ii) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws of any such jurisdiction that the Borrower make any deduction or withholding for taxes from amounts payable to such Lender. Additionally, the Borrower shall promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the Administrative Agent or such Lender shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Closing Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by the Borrower, as are required to be furnished by such Lender or the Administra tive Agent under such Laws in connection with any payment by the Administrative Agent or any Lender of Taxes or Other Taxes, or otherwise in connection with the Loan Documents, with respect to such jurisdiction.
If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurocurrency Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the applicable interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Company through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurocurrency Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Loans to Eurocurrency Rate Loans, shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Company that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upo n demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all such Eurocurrency Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans, and any additional Loans made by such Lender hereunder shall be Base Rate Loans until such time as such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Company that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notification, the Company shall be entitled to request a conversion of Loans from Base Rate Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) deposits are not being offered to banks in the applicable offshore interbank market for Dollars for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurocurrency Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or (c) the Eurocurrency Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Company and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be suspended until the A dministrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Company may revoke any pending request for a conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a continuation of or a conversion to Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein, and any additional Loans made hereunder shall be Base Rate Loans until such time as the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon such revocation, the Company shall be entitled to request a conversion of Loans from Base Rate Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans.
(a)
. If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
(i)
impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement contemplated by );
Section 3.04(e)
(ii)
subject any Lender to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement or any Eurocurrency Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender); or
Section 3.01
(iii)
impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency Rate Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurocurrency Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to increase the cost to such Lender, or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender, the Company will pay to such Lender, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b)
. If any Lender determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lenders holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lenders capital or on the capital of such Lenders holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lenders holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lenders policies and the policies of such Lenders holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Company will pay to such Lender, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lenders holding company for any suc h reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
(c)
. A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in or of this Section and delivered to the Company shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Company shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
subsection (a)
(b)
(d)
. Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lenders right to demand such compensation, that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than nine months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Company of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lenders intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the nine-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
(e)
. The Company shall pay to each Lender, (i) as long as such Lender shall be required to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency funds or deposits (currently known as Eurocurrency liabilities), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurocurrency Rate Loan equal to the actual costs of such reserves allocated to such Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive), and (ii)as long as such Lender shall be required to comply with any reserve ratio requirement or analogous requirement of any other central banking or financial regulatory authority imposed in respect of the maintenance of the Commitments or the funding of the Eurocurrency Rate Loans, such additional costs (expressed as a percentage per annum and rounded upwar ds, if necessary, to the nearest five decimal places) equal to the actual costs allocated to such Commitment or Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive), whichin each case shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Loan, the Company shall have received at least 10 days prior notice (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of such additional interest or costs from such Lender. If a Lender fails to give notice 10 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, such additionalinterest or costs shall be due and payable 10 days from receipt of such notice.
Additional Reserve Requirements
provided
Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Company shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
(a)
any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
(b)
any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower;
(c)
any assignment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Company pursuant to ; or
Section 10.13
(d)
any assignment of any Eurocurrency Loans during the 180 day period following the Closing Date in connection with the syndication of the Loans and Commitments made pursuant to this Agreement
,
including any loss of anticipated profits, any foreign exchange losses and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan, from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained or from the performance of any foreign exchange contract. The Company shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Company to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurocurrency Rate Loan made by it at the Eurocurrency Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the offshore interbank market for Dollars for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurocurrency Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
(a)
. If any Lender requests compensation under , or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbu rsed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Company hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
(b)
. If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Company may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.13
All of the Borrowers obligations under this shall survive termination of the Facility and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
Article III
4.01
. The obligation of each Lender to make its Loan hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
Conditions of Borrowing
(a)
The Administrative Agents receipt each of the assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders reasonably may require (including, without limitation, each of the documents, instruments and agreements listed in the List of Closing Documents attached hereto as ).
Schedule 4.01
(b)
The Administrative Agent shall have received from the Company, in immediately available funds the fees required under the Fee Letter, which shall be fully earned and non-refundable when due and payable.
(c)
Unless waived by the Administrative Agent or the Arranger, respectively, the Company shall have paid all fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and the Arranger, respectively, to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, plus such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Company and the Administrative Agent).
(d)
The representations and warranties of (i) the Borrower contained in and (ii) each Loan Party contained in each other Loan Document delivered on the Closing Date or in any document furnished at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in and of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to and , respectively, of .
Article V
Section 4.01
subsections (a)
(b)
Section 5.05
clauses (a)
(b)
Section 6.01
(e)
No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Borrowing or the application of the proceeds thereof.
(f)
The Administrative Agent shall have received a Committed Loan Notice in accordance with the requirements hereof.
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of the last paragraph of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.03
Section 4.01
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders on its own behalf and on behalf of each Subsidiary that:
Each Loan Party (a) is duly organized or formed, validly existing and in good standing (if applicable in such Loan Partys or Subsidiarys jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority and all requisite governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to (i) own or lease its assets and carry on its business and (ii) execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party, (c) is duly qualified and is licensed and in good standing (if applicable in such Loan Partys or Subsidiarys jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license, an d (d) is in compliance with all Laws; except in each case referred to in , or , to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
and each Subsidiary thereof
clause (b)(i)
(c)
(d)
The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of each Loan Document to which such Person is party, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, and do not and will not (a) contravene the terms of any of such Persons Organization Documents; (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, or require any payment to be made under (i) any Contractual Obligation to which such Person is a party or affecting such Person or the properties of such Person or any of its Subsidiaries or (ii) any order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which such Person or its property is subject; or (c) violate any Law. Each Loan Party and each Subsidiary thereof is in compliance with all Contractual Obligations referred to in , except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
clause (b)(i)
No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, any Loan Party of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
This Agreement has been, and each other Loan Document, when delivered hereunder, will have been, duly executed and delivered by each Loan Party that is party thereto. This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document when so delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Loan Party, enforceable against each Loan Party that is party thereto in accordance with its terms (except, in any case, as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, examinership or similar laws affecting creditors rights generally and by principles of equity).
(a)
The Audited Financial Statements (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein and (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein.
(b)
The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries dated March 31, 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, and (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of and , to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments. sets forth all material indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date of such financial statements, in cluding liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
clauses (i)
(ii)
Schedule 5.05
(c)
Since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(d)
Since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, no Internal Control Event has occurred.
(e)
The consolidated forecasted balance sheet and statements of income and cash flows of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to were prepared in good faith on the basis of the assumptions stated therein, which assumptions were fair in light of the conditions existing at the time of delivery of such forecasts, and represented, at the time of delivery, the Companys best estimate of its future financial performance.
Section 6.01(c)
There are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending or, to the knowledge of the Company after due and diligent investigation, threatened or contemplated, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, by or against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of their properties or revenues that (a) purport to affect or pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, or (b) either individually or in the aggregate could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is in default under or with respect to any Contractual Obligation that could, either individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Each of the Company and each Subsidiary has good record and marketable title in fee simple to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of its business, except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The property of the Company and its Subsidiaries is subject to no Liens, other than Liens permitted by .
Section 7.01
The Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries conduct in the ordinary course of business a review of the effect of existing Environmental Laws and claims alleging potential liability or responsibility for violation of any Environmental Law on their respective businesses, operations and properties, and as a result thereof the Company has reasonably concluded that, except as specifically disclosed in ,such Environmental Laws and claims could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Schedule 5.09
The properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries are insured with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Company, in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks as are customarily carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities where the Company or the applicable Subsidiary operates.
The Company and its Subsidiaries have filed all Federal, state and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all Federal, state and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP. There is no proposed tax assessment against the Company or any Subsidiary that would, if made, have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither any Loan Party nor any Subsidiary thereof is party to any tax sharing agreement.
(a)
Each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other Federal or state Laws. Each Plan that is intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS or an application for such a letter is currently being processed by the IRS with respect thereto and, to the best knowledge of the Company, nothing has occurred which would prevent, or cause the loss of, such qualification. The Company and each ERISA Affiliate have made all required contributions to each Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code, and no application for a funding waiver or an extension of any amortization period pursuant to Section 412 of the Code has been made with respect to any Plan.
(b)
There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(c)
 (i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur; (ii) no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability; (iii) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA); (iv) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any material liability (and no event has occurred which, with the giving of notice under Section 4219 of ERISA, would result in such material liability) under Sections 4201 or 4243 of ERISA with respect to a Multiemployer Plan; and (v) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Sections 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.
As of the Closing Date, the Company has no Subsidiaries other than those specifically disclosed in Part (a) of , and all of the outstanding Equity Interests in such Subsidiaries have been validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and are owned in the amounts specified on Part (a) of free and clear of all Liens. The Company has no equity investments in any other corporation or entity other than those specifically disclosed in Part (b) of . All of the outstanding Equity Interests in the Company have been validly issued, and are fully paid and nonassessable.
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
(a)
The Borrower is not engaged and will not engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB), or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock. Following the application of the proceeds of each Borrowing, not more than 25% of the value of the assets (either of the Borrower only or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis) subject to the provisions of or or subject to any restriction contained in any agreement or instrument between the Borrower and any Lender or any Affiliate of any Lender relating to Indebtedness and within the scope of will be margin stock.
Section 7.01
Section 7.05
Section 8.01(e)
(b)
None of the Company, any Person Controlling the Company, or any Subsidiary is or is required to be registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
The Company has disclosed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is subject and all other matters known to it, that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No report, financial statement, certificate or other information furnished (whether in writing or orally) by or on behalf of any Loan Party to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder or under any other Loan Document (in each case, as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Company represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.
provided
Each of the Company and each Subsidiary is in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or (b) the failure to comply therewith, either individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
The Company and its Subsidiaries own, or possess the right to use, all of the trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patents, patent rights, franchises, licenses and other intellectual property rights (collectively, ) that are reasonably necessary for the operation of their respective businesses, without conflict with the rights of any other Person. To the best knowledge of the Company, no slogan or other advertising device, product, process, method, substance, part or other material now employed, or now contemplated to be employed, by the Company or any Subsidiary infringes upon any rights held by any other Person. No claim or litigation regarding any of the foregoing is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened, which, either individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
IP Rights
As of the Closing Date , or as of the date thereof the most recent supplement to delivered by the Company pursuant to or , sets forth the Material Subsidiaries of the Company.
Schedule 5.18
Schedule 5.18
Section 6.13
Section 6.14
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Company shall, and shall (except in the case of the covenants set forth in , , and ) cause each Subsidiary to:
Sections 6.01
6.02
6.03
Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
(a)
as soon as available, but in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year, and the related consolidatedstatements of income or operations, shareholders equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, audited and accompanied by (i) a report and opinion of Ernst & Young LLP or another Registered Public Accounting Firm of nationally recognized standing reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders, which report and opinion shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and applicable Securities Laws and shall not be subject to any going concern or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit and (ii) an attestation report of such Registered Public Accounting Firm as to the Companys internal controls pursuant to Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley expressing a conclusion to which the Required Lenders do not reasonably object;
(b)
as soon as available, but in any event within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Company, a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders equity and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Companys fiscal year then ended, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, certified by a Responsible Officer of the Company as fairly presenting the financial condition, results of operations, shareholders equity and cash flows of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes; and
(c)
as soon as available, but in any event no later than 45 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, forecasts prepared by management of the Company, in form satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, of consolidated balance sheets and statements of income or operations and cash flows of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries on a monthly basis for the immediately following fiscal year (including the fiscal year in which the Maturity Date occurs).
As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to , the Company shall not be separately required to furnish such information under or above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of the Company to furnish the information and materials described in and above at the times specified therein.
Section 6.02
clause (a)
(b)
clauses (a)
(b)
Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
(a)
concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company together with a reconciliation of the financial condition and financial results (including balance sheet and income statement items) of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and the Company and its Subsidiaries (including balance sheet and income statement items), on the other hand;
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
,
(b)
promptly after any request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, copies of any detailed audit reports, management letters or recommendations submitted to the board of directors (or the audit committee of the board of directors) of the Company by independent accountants in connection with the accounts or books of the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary, or any audit of any of them;
(c)
promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Company, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration statements which the Company may file or be required to file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto;
(d)
promptly after the furnishing thereof, copies of any statement or report furnished to any holder of debt securities of any Loan Party or any Consolidated Subsidiary thereof pursuant to the terms of any indenture, loan or credit or similar agreement and not otherwise required to be furnished to the Lenders pursuant to or any other clause of this ; and
Section 6.01
Section 6.02
(e)
promptly, and in any event within five Business Days after receipt thereof by any Loan Party or any Consolidated Subsidiary thereof, copies of each notice or other correspondence received from the SEC (or comparable agency in any applicable non-U.S. jurisdiction) concerning any investigation or possible investigation or other inquiry by such agency regarding financial or other operational results of any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof; and
(f)
promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Company or any Consolidated Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Company posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Companys website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Companys behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that: (i) the Company shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Company to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (ii) the Company shall notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender (by telecopier or electronic mail) of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (, soft copies) of such documents. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Company shall be required to provide paper copies of the Compliance Certificates required by to the Administrative Agent. Except for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Company with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(c)
Schedule 10.02
provided
i.e.
Section 6.02(a)
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arranger will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, ) by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the ) and (b) certain of the Lenders (each, a ) may have personnel who do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing, and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to such Persons securities. The Borrower hereby agrees that so long as the Borrower is the issuer of any outstanding debt or equity securities that are registered or issued pursuant to a privat e offering or is actively contemplating issuing any such securities (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked PUBLIC which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word PUBLIC shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials PUBLIC, the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arranger and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ); (y) all Borrower Materials marked PUBLIC are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated Public Investor; and (z) the A dministrative Agent and the Arranger shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked PUBLIC as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated Public Investor. The Administrative Agent and the Arranger acknowledge that material non-public information with respect to the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries is highly confidential and agree to take commercially reasonable steps to protect such information from public disclosure. In the event of the inadvertent public disclosure of any such information by the Administrative Agent or the Arranger, the Administrative Agent or the Arranger, as applicable, shall promptly notify the Company.
Borrower Materials
Platform
Public Lender
provided
however
Section 10.07
Promptly notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
(a)
of the occurrence of any Default;
(b)
of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of the Company or any Subsidiary; (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Company or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Company or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws;
(c)
of the occurrence of any ERISA Event;
(d)
of any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by the Company or any Subsidiary, including any determination by the Company referred to in ; and
Section 2.10(b)
(e)
of the occurrence of any Internal Control Event.
Each notice pursuant to this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Company setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Company has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto. Each notice pursuant to shall describe with particularity any and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.
Section 6.03(a)
Pay and discharge as the same shall become due and payable, all its obligations and liabilities, including (a) all tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Company or such Subsidiary; (b) all lawful claims which, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien upon its property; and (c) all Indebtedness, as and when due and payable, but subject to any subordination provisions contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing such Indebtedness.
(a)
Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence and good standing (if applicable in such Subsidiarys jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization except in a transaction permitted by or ;
Section 7.04
7.05
(b)
take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and
(c)
preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks, the non-preservation of which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(a)
Maintain, preserve and protect all of its material properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted;
(b)
make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and
(c)
use the standard of care typical in the industry in the operation and maintenance of its facilities.
(a)
Maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Company, insurance with respect to its properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons.
(b)
Use its commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that (i) each Person contracted by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that at any time has possession of any materials handled by the Company or its Subsidiaries maintains insurance with financially sound and reputable insurance companies over such materials with respect to property and risks of a character usually maintained by Persons of comparable size engaged in the same or similar business and similarly situated against loss, damage and liability of the kinds and in the amounts customarily maintained by such Persons and (ii) in addition to, and not in limitation of, above, all third party contract haulers or other Person contracted by the Company or its Subsidiaries to handle or transport Hazardous Materials also maintains pollution legal liability insurance with financially sound and reputable insurance companies with respect to th e handling or transporting of such materials of a character usually maintained by Persons of comparable size engaged in the same or similar business and similarly situated, and in each case the Company or its Subsidiary, as the case may be, be named an additional insured under all such policies and obtain waivers of subrogation from such third party contractors.
clause (i)
Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.09
.
Books and Records
(a)
Maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries in conformity with GAAP consistently applied shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be; and
(b)
maintain such books of record and account in material conformity with all applicable requirements of any Governmental Authority having regulatory jurisdiction over the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be.
Permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent and each Lender to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its directors, officers, and independent public accountants, all at the expense of the Company and at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably desired, upon reasonable advance notice to the Company; , , prior to the occurrence of a Default, the Company shall not be required to pay the expenses associated with more than one such visitation and inspection by each Lender during any calendar year; , , , that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respecti ve representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Company at any time during normal business hours and without advance notice.
provided
however
provided
further
however
Subject to the limitations set forth in , use the proceeds of the Borrowings for (i) the purpose of consummating the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, (ii) general corporate purposes, permitted stock repurchases, Permitted Acquisitions and other lawful purposes and (iii) to refinance indebtedness of any business acquired in a Permitted Acquisition.
Section 7.10
(a)
Notify the Administrative Agent if any Person becomes a Material Subsidiary within 45 days of such occurrence, and thereafter promptly (and in any event, within 30 days of such notification) cause such Person to (a) provide an unconditional guaranty of the Obligations of the Borrower by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a counterpart of the applicable Guaranty or such other document as the Administrative Agent shall deem appropriate for such purpose, and (b) deliver to the Administrative Agent (i) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of such Material Subsidiary as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with any Loan Document to which it is or may be a party;(i i) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that such Material Subsidiary is duly organized or formed and is validly existing, in good standing (if applicable in such Material Subsidiarys jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) and qualified to engage in business in each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualifications, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effecta supplement to setting forth the Subsidiaries of the Company necessary to make the representation and warranty set forth in true and correct and (iv) favorable opinion letters of counsel to such Person (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the documentation referred to in ), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent; , that, in the case of any Material Subsidiary that is a Foreign Subsidiary, if, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, the unconditional guaranty of the Obligations of the Borrower by such Foreign Subsidiary would cause material adverse tax consequences to the Company and its Subsidiaries, such Foreign Subsidiary shall provide an unconditional guaranty only to the extent as will not result in material adverse tax consequences to the Company and its Subsidiaries; , , that, in the event of any change in, or the introduction, adoption, effectiveness, interpretation, reinterpretation or phase-in of, any law or regulation, directive or guideline of any Governmental Authority that eliminates such material adverse tax consequences to the Company and its Subsidiaries, the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders may require the execution and delivery by such Foreign Subsidiary of the Guaranty required by this se ction. If one or more Material Subsidiaries are created in connection with, or result from the consummation of, an Acquisition by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, then, notwithstanding the notice and timing provisions set forth herein above, the Company shall cause to be executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent, the Guaranty or Guaranties and related documents required by this section concurrently with the consummation of such Acquisition.
, (iii)
Schedule 5.18
Section 5.18
clause (a)
provided
provided
further
(b)
Upon the consummation of the Merger, take each action set forth in below.
Section 6.14
Upon the consummation of the Merger, promptly (and in any event, within thirty (30) days thereof):
(a)
cause MedServe to provide an unconditional guaranty of the Obligations of the Borrower hereunder and under the Revolving Credit Agreement by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a counterpart of each applicable Guaranty or such other document as the Administrative Agent shall deem appropriate for such purpose; and
(b)
deliver to the Administrative Agent:
(i)
such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of MedServe as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with any Loan Document to which MedServe is or may be a party;
(ii)
such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that MedServe is duly organized or formed and is validly existing, in good standing and qualified to engage in business in each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualifications, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect
;
(iii)
a supplement to setting forth the Subsidiaries of the Company necessary to make the representation and warranty set forth in true and correct;
Schedule 5.18
Section 5.18
(iv)
favorable opinion letters of counsel to MedServe (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the documentation referred to in ), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent;
clause (a) and the Merger
(v)
evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent as to the fulfillment of all conditions precedent set forth in the Merger Agreement and the consummation of the Merger;
(vi)
a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company demonstrating compliance with the financial covenants set forth in after giving effect to the consummation of the Merger; and
Section 7.11
(vii)
each of the assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders reasonably may require (including, without limitation, each of the documents, instruments and agreements listed in the List of Merger Documents attached hereto as ).
Schedule 6.14
Cooperate with the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and execute such further instruments and documents as the Lenders or the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request to carry out to their satisfaction the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Company shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly:
Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following:
(a)
Liens pursuant to any Loan Document or Revolving Loan Document;
(b)
Liens existing on the date hereof and listed on and any renewals or extensions thereof, that (i) the property covered thereby is not changed, (ii) the amount secured or benefited thereby is not increased, (iii) the direct or any contingent obligor with respect thereto is not changed, and (iv) any renewal or extension of the obligations secured or benefited thereby is permitted by ;
Schedule 7.01
provided
Section 7.03(b)
(c)
Liens for taxes not yet due or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person in accordance with GAAP;
(d)
carriers, warehousemens, mechanics, materialmens, repairmens or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person;
(e)
pledges or deposits in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation, other than any Lien imposed by ERISA;
(f)
deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts and leases (other than Indebtedness), statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(g)
easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances affecting real property which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the applicable Person;
(h)
leases, subleases, licenses and sublicenses granted to third Parties in the ordinary course of business, in each case, not interfering with the operations of business of the Company or its Subsidiaries;
(i)
Liens securing judgments for the payment of money not constituting an Event of Default under ; and
Section 8.01(h)
(j)
Liens securing Indebtedness permitted under or ; , that the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Indebtedness secured by such Liens shall not exceed $50,000,000 at any time.
Section 7.03(f)
(g)
provided
Make any Investments, except:
(a)
Investments reflected on the consolidated balance sheet included in the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and Investments since March 31, 2009 in existence on the date hereof and described in , and any renewal or extension of any such Investments that does not increase the amount of the Investment being renewed or extended as determined as of such date of renewal or extension;
Schedule 7.02
(b)
Investments held by the Company or any Subsidiary in the form of cash equivalents or short-term marketable debt securities;
(c)
advances to officers, directors and employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount not to exceed $ at any time outstanding, for travel, entertainment, relocation and analogous ordinary business purposes;
5,000,000
(d)
Investments of the Company in any Subsidiary Guarantor that has provided an unconditional guaranty of the Obligations of the Borrower and Investments of any such Subsidiary Guarantor in the Company or in another such Subsidiary Guarantor;
(e)
with respect to the Borrower, Investments of the Borrower in any Subsidiary Guarantor that has provided an unconditional guaranty of the Obligations of the Borrower and Investments of any such Subsidiary Guarantor in the Borrower or in another such Subsidiary Guarantor;
(f)
Investments consisting of extensions of credit in the nature of accounts receivable or notes receivable arising from the grant of trade credit in the ordinary course of business, and Investments received in satisfaction or partial satisfaction thereof from financially troubled account debtors to the extent reasonably necessary in order to prevent or limit loss;
(g)
Guarantees permitted by ;
Section 7.03
(h)
if an Enhanced Performance Noncompliance Date has occurred and an Enhanced Performance Restoration Date has not yet occurred with respect to such Enhanced Performance Noncompliance Date, other Investments not otherwise permitted under this $50,000,000 (excluding, in the case of each such Investment constituting an Acquisition, the aggregate amount of cash and cash equivalents acquired pursuant to such Acquisition or held by the Person subject to such Acquisition) from such Enhanced Performance Noncompliance Date until occurrence of an Enhanced Performance Restoration Date; , that, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the date of the making or acquisition of such Investment; and , further, that, if any such Investment is an Acquisition, the following additional conditions are satisfied:
Section 7.02 in an aggregate amount not to exceed
provided
provided
(i)
the Person to be acquired is not engaged in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof or any business substantially related or incidental thereto;
(ii)
the board of directors and (if required by applicable law) the shareholders, or the equivalent thereof, of each of the Company or the applicable Subsidiary and of the Person to be acquired has approved such Acquisition; and
(iii)
any Indebtedness directly or indirectly incurred or assumed in connection with such Acquisition shall have been permitted to be incurred or assumed pursuant to ; and
Section 7.03
(i)
if the Enhanced Performance Condition is satisfied, other Investments not otherwise permitted under this ; , that each of the following conditions are satisfied:
Section 7.02
provided
(i)
no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the date of the making or acquisition of such Investment;
(ii)
if, after giving effect to any such proposed Investment, the Company and its Subsidiaries shall have made or acquired more than $75,000,000 in the aggregate in Investments (excluding, in the case of each such Investment constituting an Acquisition, the aggregate amount of cash and cash equivalents acquired pursuant to such Acquisition or held by the Person subject to such Acquisition) during the period beginning 90 calendar days before the date of such proposed Investment and ending on the date of such proposed Investment, the Company shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the date of the making or acquisition of the proposed Investment (A) financial statements prepared on a pro forma basis (consistent with if applicable) giving effect to such Investment for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending with the fiscal quarter then last ended for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to and (B) a certificate of a Responsible Officer prepared on a pro forma basis (consistent with if applicable) giving effect to such Investment and demonstrating compliance with the Enhanced Performance Condition; and
Section 1.03(c)
Section 6.01
Section 1.03(c)
(iii)
if any such Investment is an Acquisition, the following additional conditions must be satisfied:
(A)
the Person to be acquired is not engaged in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof or any business substantially related or incidental thereto;
(B)
the board of directors and (if required by applicable law) the shareholders, or the equivalent thereof, of each of the Company or the applicable Subsidiary and of the Person to be acquired has approved such Acquisition; and
(C)
any Indebtedness directly or indirectly incurred or assumed in connection with such Acquisition shall have been permitted to be incurred or assumed pursuant to ; and
Section 7.03
(D)
if one or more additional Material Subsidiaries are created in connection with, or result from the consummation of, such Acquisition, the Company shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the Administrative Agent a supplement to setting forth the Subsidiaries of the Company necessary to make the representation and warranty set forth in true and correct after giving effect to such Acquisition and each of the Domestic Subsidiary Guaranty and related documents described by with respect to such additional Material Subsidiaries.
Schedule 5.18
Section 5.18
Section 6.13
Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness, except:
(a)
Indebtedness under the Loan Documents or the Revolving Loan Documents;
(b)
Indebtedness reflected on the consolidated balance sheet included in the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and Indebtedness incurred since March 31, 2009 outstanding on the date hereof and listed on and any refinancings, refundings, renewals or extensions thereof; that ( the amount of such Indebtedness is not increased at the time of such refinancing, refunding, renewal or extension except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such refinancing and by an amount equal to any existing commitments unutilized thereunder
Schedule 7.03
provided
i)
and (ii) the terms relating to principal amount, amortization, maturity, collateral (if any) and subordination (if any), and other material terms taken as a whole, of any such refinancing, refunding, renewing or extending Indebtedness, and of any agreement entered into and of any instrument issued in connection therewith, are no less favorable in any material respect to the Company and its Subsidiaries, in the Company's reasonable judgment, than the terms of any agreement or instrument governing the Indebtedness being refinanced, refunded, renewed or extended and the interest rate applicable to any such refinancing, refunding, renewing or extending Indebtedness does not exceed the then applicable market interest rate;
(c)
Guarantees of the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor in respect of Indebtedness otherwise permitted hereunder of the Company or any other Subsidiary Guarantor;
(d)
obligations (contingent or otherwise) of the Company or any Subsidiary existing or arising under any Swap Contract, that (i) such obligations are (or were) entered into by such Person in the ordinary course of business for the purpose of directly mitigating risks associated with liabilities, commitments, investments, assets, or property held or reasonably anticipated by such Person, or changes in the value of securities issued by such Person, and not for purposes of speculation or taking a market view; and (ii) such Swap Contract does not contain any provision exonerating the non-defaulting party from its obligation to make payments on outstanding transactions to the defaulting party;
provided
(e)
intercompany Indebtedness permitted under ;
Section 7.02
(f)
if an Enhanced Performance Noncompliance Date has occurred and an Enhanced Performance Restoration Date has not yet occurred with respect to such Enhanced Performance Noncompliance Date, other Indebtedness not otherwise permitted under this $50,000,000 incurred from such Enhanced Performance Noncompliance Date until occurrence of an Enhanced Performance Restoration Date, , that, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the date of the incurrence or assumption of any such Indebtedness; and
Section 7.03 in an aggregate amount not to exceed
provided
(g)
if the Enhanced Performance Condition is satisfied, other Indebtedness not otherwise permitted under this ; , that each of the following conditions are satisfied:
Section 7.03
provided
(i)
no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the date of the incurrence or assumption of such Indebtedness;
(ii)
in the case of the incurrence or assumption of Indebtedness having a principal amount in excess of $75,000,000, the Company shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the date of such incurrence or assumption (A) financial statements prepared on a pro forma basis (consistent with if applicable) giving effect to such Indebtedness for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending with the fiscal quarter then last ended for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to and (B) a certificate of a Responsible Officer prepared on a pro forma basis (consistent with if applicable) giving effect to such Indebtedness demonstrating compliance with Enhanced Performance Condition.
Section 1.03(c)
Section 6.01
Section 1.03(c)
Merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another Person, or Dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any Person, or agree to or effect any Acquisition, except that, so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom:
(a)
any Subsidiary may liquidate or dissolve voluntarily into, and merge with and into (i) the Company, that the Company shall be the continuing or surviving Person, or (ii) any one or more other Subsidiaries, that when any Subsidiary Guarantor is liquidating or dissolving into, or merging with and into, another Subsidiary, a Subsidiary Guarantor shall be the continuing or surviving Person;
provided
provided
(b)
any Subsidiary may Dispose of all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to the Company or to another Subsidiary; that if the transferor in such a transaction is a Subsidiary Guarantor, then the transferee must either be the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor; and
provided
(c)
the Company or any Subsidiary may consummate any Permitted Acquisition.
Make any Disposition or enter into any agreement to make any Disposition, except:
(a)
Dispositions of unused, obsolete or worn out property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, in the ordinary course of business;
(b)
Dispositions of inventory in the ordinary course of business;
(c)
Dispositions of equipment or real property to the extent that (i) such property is exchanged for credit against the purchase price of similar replacement property or (ii) the proceeds of such Disposition are reasonably promptly applied to the purchase price of such replacement property;
(d)
Dispositions of property by any Subsidiary to the Company or to a wholly-owned Subsidiary; that if the transferor of such property is a Subsidiary Guarantor, the transferee thereof must be an entity in which such Subsidiary Guarantor may make an Investment pursuant to , ) or , such Dispositions shall be treated as Investments under such section and such Investments must be permitted thereunder;
provided
Section 7.02(d)
(e
(i)
(e)
Dispositions of accounts receivable in connection with the collection or compromise of such accounts receivable in the ordinary course of business;
(f)
Dispositions permitted by
Section 7.04
;
(g)
non-exclusive licenses of IP Rights in the ordinary course of business and substantially consistent with past practice for terms not exceeding five years;
(h)
Dispositions constituting a swap/exchange of assets for similar assets (although not necessarily serving the same geographical area), that (i) the net book value of the assets so Disposed in any transaction or series of related transactions does not exceed $50,000,000 over the term of this Agreement and (ii) any cash paid (or Indebtedness assumed) by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with such swap/exchange shall reduce dollar-for-dollar the amount set forth in below; and
provided
clause (i)(ii)
(i)
Dispositions by the Company and its Subsidiaries not otherwise permitted under this ; , that (i) the consideration received by the Company or applicable Subsidiary consists of at least 75% cash and (ii) the net book value of the assets to be Disposed, together with the net book value of all other assets Disposed of pursuant to this clause (i), does not exceed $50,000,000 over the term of this Agreement;
Section 7.05
provided
, , that any Disposition pursuant to through shall be for fair market value.
provided
however
clauses (a)
(i)
Declare or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, or incur any obligation (contingent or otherwise) to do so, except that, so long as no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of any action described below or would result therefrom:
(a)
each Subsidiary may make Restricted Payments to the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and any other Person that owns an Equity Interest in such Subsidiary, ratably according to their respective holdings of the type of Equity Interest in respect of which such Restricted Payment is being made;
(b)
the Company and each Subsidiary may declare and make dividend payments or other distributions payable solely in the common stock or other common Equity Interests of such Person;
(c)
the Company and each Subsidiary may purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire Equity Interests issued by it with the proceeds received from the substantially concurrent issue of new shares of its common stock or other common Equity Interests;
(d)
if an Enhanced Performance Noncompliance Date has occurred and an Enhanced Performance Restoration Date has not yet occurred with respect to such Enhanced Performance Noncompliance Date, the Company and each Subsidiary may declare, pay and make other Restricted Payments consisting of dividends, repurchases or redemptions with respect to the Companys Equity Interests not otherwise permitted under this $50,000,000 incurred from such Enhanced Performance Noncompliance Date until occurrence of an Enhanced Performance Restoration Date, , that, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the date of the declaration or payment thereof; and
Section 7.06 in an aggregate amount not to exceed
provided
(e)
if the Enhanced Performance Condition is satisfied, the Company and each Subsidiary may declare, pay and make Restricted Payments consisting of dividends, repurchases or redemptions with respect to the Companys Equity Interests not otherwise permitted by this ; , that each of the following conditions are satisfied:
Section 7.06
provided
(i)
no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the date of declaration or payment thereof; and
(ii)
if, after giving effect to any proposed Restricted Payment, the Company and its Subsidiaries shall have made more than $75,000,000 in the aggregate in Restricted Payments during the period beginning 90 calendar days before the date of such proposed Restricted Payment and ending on the date of such proposed Restricted Payment, the Company shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the date of such Restricted Payment (A) financial statements prepared on a pro forma basis giving effect to such Restricted Payment for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending with the fiscal quarter then last ended for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to and (B) a certificate of a Responsible Officer prepared on a pro forma basis giving effect to such Restricted Payment demonstrating compliance with the Enhanced Performance Condition.
Section 6.01
Engage in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof or any business substantially related or incidental thereto.
Enter into any transaction of any kind with any Affiliate of the Company, whether or not in the ordinary course of business, other than on fair and reasonable terms substantially as favorable to the Company or such Subsidiary as would be obtainable by the Company or such Subsidiary at the time in a comparable arms length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate; , that the foregoing restrictions shall not apply to transactions between or among the Company and its Subsidiaries which are expressly permitted under the other sections of this .
provided
Article VII
Enter into any Contractual Obligation (other than this Agreement or any other Loan Document) that (a) limits the ability (i) of any Subsidiary to make Restricted Payments to the Company or any Loan Party or to otherwise transfer property to the Company or any Loan Party, (ii) of any Subsidiary to Guarantee the Indebtedness of the Company or (iii) of the Company or any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist Liens on property of such Person; , , that this shall not prohibit any negative pledge incurred or provided in favor of any holder of Indebtedness in respect of capital leases and purchase money obligations for fixed or capital assets solely to the extent any such negative pledge relates to the property financed by or the subject of such Indebtedness and such transactions are otherwise permitted under and ; or (b) requires the grant of a Lien to secure an obligation of such Person if a Lien is granted to secure another obligation of such Person.
provided
however
clause (iii)
Sections 7.01
7.03
Other than to the extent permitted under , use the proceeds of any Borrowing, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to purchase or carry margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U of the FRB) or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose.
Section 7.06
(a)
Permit the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Company to be less than 3.00 to 1.00
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio.
(b)
Permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio at any time to be greater than 3.75 to 1.00.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio.
Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
(a)
. The Borrower or any other Loan Party fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, any amount of principal of any Loan, or (ii) within three days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan, or any fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
(b)
. The Company fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of , , , , , , or or ; or
Specific Covenants
Section
6.01
6.02
6.03
6.05
6.10
6.11
6.13
6.14
Article VII
(c)
. Any Loan Party fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement (not specified in or above) contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed and such failure continues for 30 days; or
Other Defaults
subsection (a)
(b)
(d)
. Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Company or any other Loan Party herein, in any other Loan Document, or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect or misleading when made or deemed made; or
Representations and Warranties
(e)
. (i) The Company or any Subsidiary (A) fails to make any payment when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise) in respect of (I) the Revolving Credit Agreement or (II) any Indebtedness or Guarantee (other than Indebtedness hereunder and Indebtedness under Swap Contracts) having an aggregate principal amount (including undrawn committed or available amounts and including amounts owing to all creditors under any combined or syndicated credit arrangement) of more than the Threshold Amount, or (B) fails to observe or perform any other agreement or condition relating to the Revolving Credit Agreement or any such Indebtedness or Guarantee or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, or any other event occurs, the effect of which default or other event is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness or the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Guarantee (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness to be demanded or to become due or to be repurchased, prepaid, defeased or redeemed (automatically or otherwise), or an offer to repurchase, prepay, defease or redeem such Indebtedness to be made, prior to its stated maturity, or such Guarantee to become payable or cash collateral in respect thereof to be demanded; or (ii) there occurs under any Swap Contract an Early Termination Date (as defined in such Swap Contract) resulting from (A) any event of default under such Swap Contract as to which the Company or any Subsidiary is the Defaulting Party (as defined in such Swap Contract) or (B) any Termination Event (as so defined) under such Swap Contract as to which the Company or any Subsidiary is an Affected Party (as so defined) and, in either event, the Swap Termination Value owed by the Company or such Subsidiary as a result thereof is greater than the Threshold Amount; or
Cross-Default
(f)
. Any Loan Party or any Material Subsidiary institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator, examiner, provisional examiner or similar officer for it or for all or any material part of its property or any corporate action is taken by any Loan Party or any Material Subsidiary for the suspension of its debts generally (or any class of them) or for the declaration of a moratorium of its debt (or any class of it) or any analogous procedure or step is taken in any jurisdiction; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator, examiner, provisional examiner or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any material part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc
(g)
. (i) The Company or any Subsidiary becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or any material part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy or (iii) the Company or any Subsidiary is, or is deemed for the purposes of any Debtor Relief Law or other law, to be insolvent, or stops, suspends, or announces its intention to stop or suspend payment of all or a material part of its indebtedness; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
(h)
. There is entered against the Company or any Subsidiary (i) a final judgment or order for the payment of money in an aggregate amount exceeding the Threshold Amount (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage), or (ii) any one or more non-monetary final judgments that have, or could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and, in either case, (A) enforcement proceedings are commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (B) there is a period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, is not in effect; or
Judgments
(i)
; or
[RESERVED]
(j)
. (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Company under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of $2,500,000, or (ii) the Company or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of $2,500,000; or
ERISA
(k)
. Any provision of any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or any Loan Party or any other Person contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any provision of any Loan Document; or any Loan Party denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any provision of any Loan Document;
Invalidity of Loan Documents
(l)
. There occurs any Change of Control; or
Change of Control
(m)
. Any Governmental Authority shall take any action with respect to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (including any action that would cause any license, permit, consent or other authorization to cease to be in full force and effect or to be held to be illegal or invalid and including any action (including the commencement of an action or proceeding) that results or may result in the revocation, termination, withdrawal, suspension or substantial and adverse modification of any such license, permit, consent or other authorization) which would have a Material Adverse Effect, unless such action is set aside, dismissed or withdrawn within 60 days of its institution or such action is being contested in good faith and its effect is stayed during such contest.
Regulatory Action
If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
(a)
declare the Commitment of each Lender to make Loans to be terminated, whereupon such Commitments shall be terminated;
(b)
declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; and
(c)
exercise on behalf of itself and the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it and the Lenders under the Loan Documents;
, , that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans shall automatically terminate and the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal, interest, and amounts owing under Guaranteed Swap Contracts) payable to the Lenders (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders (including fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of any Lender) and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans, and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Third
, to payment of (i) that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans and (ii) that portion of the Obligations constituting amounts owing under Guaranteed Swap Contracts, ratably among the Lenders (and Affiliates thereof) in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them; and
Fourth
Fourth
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Company or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and the Borrower shall have no rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term Lender or Lenders shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
(a)
shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
(b)
shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
(c)
shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Company or a Lender.
Sections 10.01
8.02
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Loan. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Company), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Company. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Company, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonethe less become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (except that in the case of any collateral security held by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders under any of the Loan Documents, the retiring Administrative Agent shall continue to hold such collateral security until such time as a successor Administrative Agent is appointed) and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successors appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Company to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Company and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agents resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
provided
Section 10.04
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Book Manager, the Arranger or the Syndication Agent notified by the Administrative Agent to the Borrower shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent or a Lender hereunder.
9.09
In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, examinership, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to any Loan Party, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise
Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim.
(a)
to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections
2.09
10.04
(b)
to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator, examiner, provisional examiner or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.09
10.04
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
The Lenders irrevocably authorize the Administrative Agent, to release any Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under any Domestic Subsidiary Guaranty if such Person ceases to be a Subsidiary as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder.
Upon request by the Administrative Agent at any time, the Required Lenders will confirm in writing the Administrative Agents authority to release any Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under a Guaranty pursuant to this .
Section 9.10
No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Company or any other Loan Party therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Company or the applicable Loan Party, as the case may be, and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
provided
however
(a)
waive any condition set forth in without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 4.01(a)
(b)
extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
(c)
postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment (excluding mandatory prepayments) of principal, interest, Unreimbursed Amount, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
(d)
reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan, or (subject to of the second proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document, or change the manner of computation of any financial ratio (including any change in any applicable defined term) used in determining the Applicable Rate that would result in a reduction of any interest rate on any Loan or any fee payable hereunder without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of Default Rate;
clause (iii)
Section 10.01
provided
however
(e)
change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 2.12, 2.13
Section 8.03
(f)
change the definition of Applicable Percentage or any provision requiring the making of Loans based on Applicable Percentages, without the consent of each Lender;
(g)
change any provision of this Section or the definition of Required Lenders or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder or any provision of this Agreement requiring the consent or approval of a number of Lenders without the written consent of each Lender; or
(h)
release all or substantially all of the value of the Guaranties or any other Guaranty without the written consent of each Lender;
and, , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; (ii) the Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Len der.
provided
further
may not be amended, waived or otherwise modified without the consent of each Granting Lender all or any part of whose Loans are being funded by an SPC at the time of such amendment, waiver or other modification; and (iii)
Section 10.06(h)
(a)
. Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
subsection (b)
(i)
if to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
(ii)
if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in below, shall be effective as provided in such .
subsection (b)
subsection (b)
(b)
. Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to if such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Company may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the senders receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the return receipt requested function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
clause (i)
(c)
. THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED AS IS AND AS AVAILABLE. THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the ) have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrowers or the Administrative Agents transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
(d)
. Each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Company and the Administrative Agent. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender. Furthermore, each Public Lender agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Lender to at all times have selected the Private Side Informatio n or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in order to enable such Public Lender or its delegate, in accordance with such Public Lenders compliance procedures and applicable Law, including United Stated Federal and state securities Laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the Public Side Information portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
Change of Address, Etc
(e)
. The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Committed Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the pa rties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent and Lenders
No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
10.04
.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
(a)
. The Company shall pay (i) all reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and (ii) all out of pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent or any Lender), and shall pay all reasonable fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of the Administrativ e Agent or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such out of pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans.
Costs and Expenses
(b)
. The Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an ) against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), and shall indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnitee from all reasonable fees and time charges and disbursements for attorneys who may be employees of any Indemnitee, incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower or any other Loan Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Loan or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Company or any other Loan Party, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemni ty shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Company or any other Loan Party against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitees obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Company or such other Loan Party has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnification by the Company
Indemnitee
provided
(c)
. To the extent that the Company for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under or of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof) or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lenders Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this are subject to the provisions of .
Reimbursement by Lenders
subsection (a)
(b)
provided
subsection (c)
Section 2.12(d)
(d)
. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed by it through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
subsection (b)
(e)
. All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
(f)
. The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Facility and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent, or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver, examiner or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon deman d its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect, in the applicable currency of such recovery or payment. The obligations of the Lenders under of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
clause (b)
(a)
. The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of of this Section, (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of of this Section, or (iv) to an SPC in accordance with the provisions of of this Section (and any othe r attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns Generally
subsection (b)
subsection (d)
subsection (f)
subsection (h)
subsection (d)
(b)
. Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of the Loans at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
(i)
Minimum Amounts
.
(A)
in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the Loans at the time owing to the Assigning Lender or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
(B)
in any case not described in subsection (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if Trade Date is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Company otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed);
provided
,
however
, that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
(ii)
Proportionate Amounts
. Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans assigned;
(iii)
Required Consents
. No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
(A)
the consent of the Company (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund; and
(B)
the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender.
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with of this Section.
subsection (c)
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
subsection (d)
(c)
. The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at the Administrative Agents Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice. In addition, at any time t hat a request for a consent for a material or substantive change to the Loan Documents is pending, any Lender may request and receive from the Administrative Agent a copy of the Register.
Register
Register
(d)
. Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Company or any of the Companys Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a ) in all or a portion of such Lenders rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of the Loans owing to it); that (i) such Lenders obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Subject to of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the be nefits of as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
provided
Section 10.01
subsection (e)
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
subsection (b)
Section 10.08
provided
Section 2.13
(e)
. A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Companys prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Company is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitation upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(f)
(f)
. Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note(s), if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
(g)
. The words execution, signed, signature, and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments
(h)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a ) may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Company (an ) the option to provide all or any part of any Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make pursuant to this Agreement; that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPC to fund any Loan, and (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to make all or any part of such Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof or, if it fails to do so, to make such payment to the Administrative Agent as is required under . Each party he reto hereby agrees that (i) neither the grant to any SPC nor the exercise by any SPC of such option shall increase the costs or expenses or otherwise increase or change the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (including its obligations under , (ii) no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement for which a Lender would be liable, and (iii) the Granting Lender shall for all purposes, including the approval of any amendment, waiver or other modification of any provision of any Loan Document, remain the lender of record hereunder. The making of a Loan by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Granting Lender. In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial pa per or other senior debt of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, or liquidation proceeding under the laws of the United States or any State thereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any SPC may (i) with notice to, but without prior consent of the Company and the Administrative Agent and with the payment of a processing fee in the amount of $3,500 (which processing fee may be waived by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), assign all or any portion of its right to receive payment with respect to any Loan to the Granting Lender and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its funding of Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety or Guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC.
Special Purpose Funding Vehicles.
Granting Lender
SPC
provided
Section 2.12(b)(ii)
Section 3.04)
Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any oth er Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Company or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Company.
For purposes of this Section,  means all information received from the Company or any Subsidiary relating to the Company or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Company or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Company or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws.
If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrowermay be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender different fr om the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender agrees to notify the Company and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
provided
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Company. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in e qual or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
Maximum Rate
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed cou nterpart of this Agreement.
Section 4.01
All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Borrowing, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied.
If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender or if any other circumstance exists hereunder that gives the Company the right to replace a Lender as a party hereto, then the Company may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:< /P>
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.06
provided
(a)
the Company shall have paid (or caused a Designated Subsidiary to pay) to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 10.06(b)
(b)
such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Company or applicable Designated Subsidiary (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
(c)
in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
(d)
such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Company to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
(a)
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS AND DECISIONS (AS OPPOSED TO CONFLICTS OF LAW PROVISIONS) OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
GOVERNING LAW
(b)
. THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OFILLINOIS SITTING IN COOK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH ILLINOIS STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON T HE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST THE BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
(c)
. THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
(d)
. EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN . NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 10.02
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), the Borrower acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates understanding, that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent and the Arranger are arms-length commercial transactions between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Arranger, on the other hand, (B) the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (ii) (A) each of the Administrative A gent and the Arranger is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arranger has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; and (iii) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower or its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and the Arranger with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
Act
If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or any other Loan Document in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. The obligation of the Borrower in respect of any such sum due from it to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders hereunder or under the other Loan Documents shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the ) other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the ), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by the Administra tive Agent of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Administrative Agent may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent from the Borrower in the Agreement Currency, the Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Administrative Agent or the Person to whom such obligation was owing against such loss. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent in such currency, the Administrative Agent agrees to return the amount of any excess to the Borrower (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law).
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
Endnotes
CH1 4693771v.10


