FILE:SE/SE-8K-20070417152347.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On April 11, 2007, Pamela L. Carter was appointed to the Board of Directors of Spectra Energy Corp (the "Company") to fill a new director position. Ms. Carter was appointed to serve as a Class I director. The current term of office for the Class I directors expires on the date of the 2007 Annual Meeting, at which time all Class I directors will be subject to election by the Company's shareholders. There is no arrangement or understanding between Ms. Carter and any other persons or entities pursuant to which Ms. Carter was appointed as a director. As a non-employee director, Ms. Carter will receive compensation in accordance with the Company's policies for compensating outside directors.
The Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Ms. Carter to the Board on April 17, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
HOUSTON  Spectra Energy Corp has appointed Pamela L. Carter, an executive with Cummins Inc., to the company's board of directors.
Carter is an established business leader with a diverse background that includes experience in law, government, international business and general management. She is currently corporate vice president with Cummins, Inc., a diesel engine manufacturing company, where she serves as president of Cummins Filtration based in Nashville, Tenn.
"We are honored to have Pamela join our board," said Paul Anderson. "She is a very dynamic, focused executive with a rich and extensive background which will further strengthen the mix of skills and diversity of our board."
Previously elected members to the Spectra Energy Board are: Paul M. Anderson, chairman; and Fred J. Fowler, Martha B. Wyrsch, Roger Agnelli, William T. Esrey, Dennis R. Hendrix, Austin A. Adams, Peter B. Hamilton and Michael E.J. Phelps.
Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE: SE) is one of North America's premier pure play natural gas midstream companies serving three key links in the natural gas value chain: gathering and processing, transmission and storage and distribution. For close to a century, Spectra Energy and its predecessor companies have developed critically important pipelines and related energy infrastructure connecting natural gas supply sources to premium markets. Based in Houston, Texas, the company operates in the United States and Canada approximately 17,500 miles of transmission pipeline, 265 billion cubic feet of storage, natural gas gathering and processing, natural gas liquids operations and local distribution assets. Spectra Energy Corp also has a 50 percent ownership in DCP Midstream, one of the largest natural gas gatherers and processors in the United States. Visit for more information.
www.spectraenergy.com


