FILE:SE/SE-8K-20071107193137.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On November 6, 2007, Spectra Energy Corp issued a news release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of this news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 7, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
(713) 627-5923
(713) 627-4747 (24-hour media line)
 
(713) 627-4600
 
 
 
 
 
 
HOUSTON - Spectra Energy (NYSE:SE) today reported third quarter 2007 net income of $234 million, or $0.37 diluted earnings per share, compared with net income of $447 million, which included $254 million from discontinued operations, in third quarter 2006.
Reported net income for current quarter included special items of $5 million in costs and $4 million for an extraordinary loss, as well as earnings from discontinued operations of $3 million; the prior year period included special items of $11 million in income as well as earnings of $254 million from discontinued operations related to operations transferred back to Duke Energy prior to the spin-off of Spectra Energy. Excluding these items in both periods, third quarter 2007 net income was $240 million compared to $182 million in third quarter 2006.
"We had an exceptionally strong third quarter. Ten months into Spectra Energy's first year as a public company, we're continuing to execute against our short-term objectives and have made excellent progress investing in longer-term development projects to fuel future growth," said Fred Fowler, president and chief executive officer of Spectra Energy. "We remain confident that we will meet our 2007 financial goals and are on track to deliver on our 2007-2009 $3 billion capital investment program."
Higher third quarter 2007 earnings reflected strong operational results in U.S. transmission and storage operations and the Canadian businesses, and a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by lower earnings at Field Services and Other.
"As we move into the final quarter of 2007, we remain committed to delivering solid, steady growth and an attractive dividend," concluded Fowler.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT PROGRESS
Year-to-date capital expenditures total $940 million with $625 million of that directed toward expansion projects. By the close of 2007, capital expansion projects totaling $625 to $650 million are expected to be brought into service. Those projects, which include Northeast Gateway, Time II  Phase I, Dawn-Trafalgar  Phase II, Pine River, Cape Cod and Egan, will fuel revenue and earnings growth as we move into 2008.
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
U.S. Transmission
U.S. Transmission reported third quarter 2007 segment earnings before income and taxes (EBIT) of $230 million compared with $179 million in third quarter of 2006. Strong operational results from all U.S. pipeline and storage businesses, primarily reflecting higher demand for services and increased earnings from expansion projects, drove the improvement. This segment also benefited from the capitalization of previously expensed development costs, primarily as a result of favorable regulatory orders and other progress on the Southeast Supply Header and Gulfstream Phase IV projects.
The U.S. Transmission segment is comprised of more than 12,800 miles of transmission pipelines and 115 billion cubic feet of storage capacity serving customers in various regions of the Northeast and Southeast United States.
Distribution
Distribution reported third quarter 2007 segment EBIT of $40 million compared with $24 million in third quarter of 2006. This increase primarily reflected higher storage and transmission revenues and increased distribution margin. Favorable market conditions continued to drive strong storage revenues while transmission revenues benefited from the completion of Phase I of the Dawn-Trafalgar expansion at the end of 2006. These increases were partially offset by higher operating and maintenance costs, including higher costs for conservation efforts which are recovered in rates in the future.
Spectra Energy's Distribution segment, through its Union Gas business, provides natural gas distribution services to commercial, industrial and residential customers in Ontario, as well as storage and transportation services for other utilities and end market participants in Ontario, Quebec, and the United States.
 
Western Canada Transmission & Processing
Western Canada Transmission & Processing reported third quarter 2007 segment EBIT of $102 million compared with $98 million in third quarter of 2006. The prior year period included a $15 million gain relating to Spectra Energy Income Fund's issuance of units for the purchase of Westcoast Gas Services Inc. Excluding this gain, EBIT improved $19 million, primarily due to higher maintenance costs in third quarter 2006 from a plant turnaround at Fort Nelson, as well as the timing of costs related to pipeline integrity work and a stronger Canadian dollar this year. Similar to third quarter 2006, the Empress facility had a positive quarter due to strong commodity prices.
The Western Canada Transmission & Processing business is focused on the gathering, processing and transmission of natural gas, and the extraction, fractionation, transportation, storage and marketing of natural gas liquids.
Field Services
Field Services, which consists of Spectra Energy's 50 percent interest in DCP Midstream, reported third quarter 2007 segment EBIT of $140 million compared with $158 million in third quarter of 2006. Lower margins in gathering and processing, and gas marketing, as well as higher operating costs, were partially offset by favorable commodity prices. 2007 results also included $3 million in costs related to the creation of stand-alone corporate functions.
During the quarter, Field Services paid distributions of approximately $247 million to Spectra Energy, which included a special distribution of $122 million associated with the sale of certain assets to DCP Midstream Partners, LP, which is the master limited partnership vehicle for Field Services.
DCP Midstream is a gathering and processing, transportation storage and marketing company.
 
Other
"Other" reported net costs of $15 million in third quarter 2007 including $5 million of gas operations separation costs, compared with net earnings of $19 million in third quarter 2006, including $7 million of costs to achieve the Duke Energy / Cinergy merger and the launch of Spectra Energy. Prior year results also included mark-to-market gains of $21 million on the discontinued hedge contracts associated with the Field Services segment, and $26 million of management fees billed to Duke Energy affiliates in 2006.
Excluding these items in both periods, net costs in "Other" were $10 million in the current year quarter compared to net costs of $21 million a year ago. "Other" continues to benefit from lower corporate costs to support the Spectra Energy operations as compared to the prior period.
"Other" is primarily comprised of corporate costs and captive insurance.
Interest Expense
Interest expense was $156 million for the quarter compared with $152 million for the third quarter 2006. The increase largely reflected interest costs capitalized in the prior period for capital projects of businesses transferred to Duke Energy prior to the spin-off of Spectra Energy.
Income Taxes
Third quarter 2007 income tax expense from continuing operations was $110 million, compared with $132 million in third quarter 2006. For the 2007 quarter, Spectra Energy's effective tax rate was 32 percent compared with 41 percent in the prior year quarter, which included non-deductible costs associated with the spin-off of Spectra Energy from Duke Energy and an increase in a reserve for state income taxes.
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Information
Additional information about third quarter 2007 earnings can be obtained at the Spectra Energy Web site: .
www.spectraenergy.com
The Analyst call is scheduled for 9 a.m. CST today, Tuesday November 6, to discuss Spectra Energy's third quarter results. The conference call can be accessed via the of Spectra Energy's Web site or by dialing (888) 252-3715 in the United States or (706) 634-8942 outside the United States. The confirmation code is "19594906" or "Spectra Energy's Earnings Call."
investors' section
Please call in five to ten minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the conference call will be available until midnight CST, February 10, 2008, by dialing (800) 642-1687 with a Conference ID 19594906The international replay number is (706) 645-9291, Conference ID 19594906. A replay and transcript also will be available by accessing the of the company's Web site.
.
investors' section
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The primary performance measure used by management to evaluate segment performance is segment EBIT from continuing operations, which at the segment level represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating), including any equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the minority interest expense related to those profits. Management believes segment EBIT from continuing operations, which is the GAAP measure used to report segment results, is a good indicator of each segment's operating performance as it represents the results of our ownership interests in continuing operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures.
Spectra Energy's management uses ongoing diluted EPS, which is a non-GAAP
 
financial measure as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations, adjusted for special items, as a measure to evaluate operations of the company. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis. Management believes that the presentation of ongoing diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare the company's ongoing performance across periods. Ongoing diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses.
Spectra Energy also uses ongoing segment and Other EBIT as a measure of performance. Ongoing segment and Other EBIT are non-GAAP financial measures as they represent reported segment and Other EBIT adjusted for special items. Management believes that the presentation of ongoing segment and Other EBIT provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare a segment's or Other's ongoing performance across periods. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for ongoing segment or Other EBIT is reported segment or Other EBIT, which represents EBIT from continuing operations, including any special items.
Forward-looking statement
This release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements represent our intentions, plans, expectations, assumptions and beliefs about future events. One can typically identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words such as: may, will, could, project, believe, expect, estimate, continue, potential, plan, forecast and other similar words. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside our control and could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. Those factors include: the levels of supply and demand for natural gas in our areas of operation; our ability to identify opportunities for our business units and the timing and success of efforts to develop pipeline, storage,
 
gathering, processing and other infrastructure projects; our ability to successfully complete and integrate future acquisitions; the extent of success in connecting natural gas supplies to gathering, processing and transmission systems and in connecting to expanding gas markets; the implementation of state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an effect on rate structure, and affect the speed at and degree to which competition enters the natural gas industries; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including our credit ratings and general economic conditions; and our ability to operate effectively as a stand-alone, publicly-traded company. These factors, as well as additional factors that could affect our forward-looking statements, are described under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Forward-Looking Statements" in our 2006 Form 10-K, filed on April 2, 2007, and in our other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than we have described. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE: SE) is one of North America's premier natural gas infrastructure companies serving three key links in the natural gas value chain: gathering and processing, transmission and storage and distribution. For close to a century, Spectra Energy and its predecessor companies have developed critically important pipelines and related energy infrastructure connecting natural gas supply sources to premium markets. Based in Houston, Texas, the company operates in the United States and Canada approximately 17,500 miles of transmission pipeline, 265 billion cubic feet of storage, natural gas gathering and processing, natural gas liquids operations and local distribution assets. Spectra Energy Corp also has a 50 percent ownership in DCP Midstream, one of the largest natural gas gatherers and processors in the United States. Visit for more information.
www.spectraenergy.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are net of minority interest, if applicable
A - Costs to create stand-alone corporate functions at DCP Midstream.
B - Separation costs resulting from the spin-off from Duke Energy.
C - Primarily income from Ft Frances revenue sharing.
D - Loss from deregulated storage assets at Distribution.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing) - in millions
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are net of minority interest, if applicable.
A - $3 million Gas Spin-Off costs to achieve allocated from Duke Energy; $4 million Cinergy merger costs to achieve allocated from Duke Energy.
B - Gain related to Spectra Energy Income Fund's issuance of additional units for the purchase of Westcoast Gas Services Inc.
C - Gain on sale of Crescent interest and businesses transferred to Duke Energy prior to the spin-off of Spectra Energy.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing) - in millions
 
 


