FILE:SE/SE-8K-20070806083550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 6, 2007, Spectra Energy Corp issued a news release announcing its financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2007. A copy of this news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: August 6, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
HOUSTON - Spectra Energy (NYSE:SE) today reported second quarter 2007 net income of $196 million, or $0.31 diluted earnings per share, compared with net income of $320 million in second quarter 2006.
Results include the positive effect of special items and discontinued operations of $4 million in second quarter 2007, and the positive effect of special items and discontinued
 
operations of $56 million in the prior year quarter. Excluding these factors in both periods, ongoing net income was $192 million this quarter compared with $264 million in the second quarter 2006. The prior year period benefited from a $30 million tax rate reduction, which was not repeated in the second quarter 2007. The decline in earnings from Field Services and Western Canada Transmission & Processing largely accounted for the remaining variance.
The second quarter 2007 results reflect strong ongoing operations in our Distribution business and continued solid U.S. Transmission results, offset by lower Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT) in the Western Canada Transmission & Processing and Field Services businesses. Western Canada was affected by two scheduled plant maintenance turnarounds and Field Services experienced severe thunderstorms resulting in power outages. The affected plants at both Western Canada and Field Services were back on-line by the end of the second quarter.
Spectra Energy Transmission 2007 year-to-date capital spending increased more than 80 percent compared to the prior year period, reflecting significant progress made on the $3 billion expansion program for the 2007-2009 period. A total of approximately $650 million of capital projects are expected to be placed in service before the end of the year, at which time they will start contributing to EBIT.
In July 2007, Spectra Energy completed its initial public offering of Spectra Energy Partners, LP (SEP). Spectra Energy retained an 83 percent equity interest in SEP, and received net cash of $345 million.
"Based on the results year-to-date, the progress of our capital expansion program, the successful launch of our master limited partnership, and the strong commodity price environment we are now seeing, the company is well positioned to achieve its 2007 financial goals," said Fred Fowler, president and chief executive officer of Spectra Energy. "We are committed to delivering results to shareholders with solid, steady growth and an attractive dividend."
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Transmission
The U.S. Transmission segment is comprised of more than 12,800 miles of transmission pipelines and 115 billion cubic feet of storage capacity serving customers in various regions of the Northeast and Southeast United States.
U.S. Transmission reported second quarter 2007 segment EBIT of $223 million, compared with $230 million in second quarter 2006. The modest decrease is primarily a result of lower gas processing volumes associated with pipeline operations in second quarter 2007 compared with second quarter 2006. In addition, increased revenues from the Maritimes & Northeast pipeline, and from expansion projects, were substantially offset by higher operating costs.
U.S. Transmission advanced a number of growth projects this quarter including the TIME II expansion, Northeast Gateway lateral, Egan storage expansion, and the Cape Cod Extension. In addition, both Ramapo and Maritimes & Northeast Phase IV received final permits.
Distribution
Spectra Energy's Distribution segment, through its Union Gas subsidiary, provides natural gas distribution service to commercial, industrial and residential customers in Ontario, as well as storage and transportation services for other utilities and end market participants in Ontario, Quebec, and the United States.
Distribution reported a strong second quarter 2007 segment EBIT of $54 million compared with $39 million in second quarter of 2006, or a 38 percent increase. This increase is primarily attributable to increased customer usage and distribution rates, higher storage revenues and increased transmission volumes.
 
Storage revenues increased as a result of higher prices, and transmission revenues benefited from the completion of Phase 1 of the Dawn-Trafalgar expansion project, which was placed into service at the end of 2006.
Western Canada Transmission & Processing
The Western Canada Transmission & Processing business is focused on the gathering, processing and transmission of natural gas, and the extraction, fractionation, transportation, storage and marketing of natural gas liquids.
Western Canada Transmission & Processing reported second quarter 2007 segment EBIT of $48 million, compared with $89 million in second quarter 2006. The lower earnings were driven primarily by two scheduled plant maintenance turnarounds at the Pine River and Empress processing plants. In addition, the Fort Nelson region realized lower revenues due primarily to lower volumes associated with reduced producer activity.
Field Services
Field Services consists of Spectra Energy's 50 percent interest in DCP Midstream, a gathering and processing, transportation, storage and marketing company.
Field Services reported second quarter 2007 segment EBIT of $123 million, compared with $148 million in second quarter 2006. The 2007 earnings include $3 million in costs related to the creation of stand-alone corporate functions. The remaining decrease resulted primarily from reduced processing margins due to unplanned outages at plants, mostly in southeastern New Mexico and in western Kansas, that were caused by severe thunderstorms.
In addition, Field Services experienced higher operating costs in the second quarter, including higher planned spending on asset integrity and other cost increases resulting from industry price pressures. These earnings decreases were partially offset by favorable NGL prices over the prior year quarter.
 
During the quarter, Field Services paid tax distributions and dividends of approximately $111 million to Spectra Energy.
Other
"Other" is primarily comprised of corporate costs and captive insurance.
"Other" reported net costs of $26 million in the second quarter of 2007 which includes $7 million of separation costs, compared with net costs of $35 million in the second quarter of 2006, which includes $11 million of costs to achieve the Duke Energy/Cinergy merger and the gas spin-off separation.
Interest Expense
Interest expense was $156 million for the quarter, compared with $148 million for the second quarter 2006, increasing largely as a result of interest costs capitalized in the prior period for capital projects of businesses transferred to Duke Energy.
Income Taxes
Second quarter 2007 income tax expense from continuing operations was $85 million, compared with $73 million in the second quarter of 2006. For the 2007 quarter, Spectra Energy's effective tax rate was 32 percent, compared with the 2006 second quarter rate of 22 percent. The unusually low tax rate in the prior period resulted from a state income tax benefit of $30 million which resulted from the completion of Duke Energy's acquisition of Cinergy.
 
Additional Information
Additional information about second quarter 2007 earnings can be obtained at the Spectra Energy Web site:
www.spectraenergy.com
The analyst call is scheduled for 9 a.m. CDT today, Monday August 6, to discuss Spectra Energy's second quarter results. The conference call can be accessed via the of Spectra Energy's Web site (
investors' section
www.spectraenergy.com
) or by dialing in the United States or outside the United States. The confirmation code is "Spectra Energy ."
(888) 252-3715
(706) 634-8942
Analyst Call
Please call in five to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the conference call will be available until midnight CDT, November 6, 2007, by dialing (800) 642-1687 with a Conference ID 6556421. The international replay number is (706) 645-9291, Conference ID 6556421. A replay and transcript also will be available by accessing the of the company's Web site.
investors' section
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The primary performance measure used by management to evaluate segment performance is segment EBIT from continuing operations, which at the segment level represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating), including any equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the minority interest expense related to those profits. Management believes segment EBIT from continuing operations, which is the GAAP measure used to report segment results, is a good indicator of each segment's operating performance as it represents the results of our ownership interests in continuing operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures.
Spectra Energy's management uses ongoing diluted EPS, which is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations, adjusted for special items, as a measure to evaluate operations of the company. Special items
 
represent certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis. Management believes that the presentation of ongoing diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare the company's ongoing performance across periods. Ongoing diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses.
The most directly comparable GAAP measure for ongoing diluted EPS is reported diluted EPS from continuing operations, which includes the impact of special items. Due to the forward-looking nature of ongoing diluted EPS for future periods, information to reconcile such non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time as the company is unable to forecast any special items for future periods.
Spectra Energy also uses ongoing segment and Other EBIT as a measure of historical and anticipated future segment and other performance. When used for future periods, ongoing segment and Other EBIT may also include any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations. Ongoing segment and Other EBIT are non-GAAP financial measures as they represent reported segment and Other EBIT adjusted for special items. Management believes that the presentation of ongoing segment and Other EBIT provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare a segment's or Other's ongoing performance across all periods. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for ongoing segment or Other EBIT is reported segment or Other EBIT, which represents EBIT from continuing operations, including any special items. Due to the forward-looking nature of any forecasted ongoing segment or Other EBIT and any related growth rates for future periods, information to reconcile these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at this time as the company is unable to forecast any special items or any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations for future periods.
 
Forward-looking statement
This release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements represent our intentions, plans, expectations, assumptions and beliefs about future events. One can typically identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words such as: may, will, could, project, believe, expect, estimate, continue, potential, plan, forecast and other similar words. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside our control and could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. Those factors include: the levels of supply and demand for natural gas in our areas of operation; our ability to identify opportunities for our business units and the timing and success of efforts to develop pipeline, storage, gathering, processing and other infrastructure projects; our ability to successfully complete and integrate future acquisitions; the extent of success in connecting natural gas supplies to gathering, processing and transmission systems and in connecting to expanding gas markets; the implementation of state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an effect on rate structure, and affect the speed at and degree to which competition enters the natural gas industries; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including our credit ratings and general economic conditions; and our ability to operate effectively as a stand-alone, publicly-traded company. These factors, as well as additional factors that could affect our forward-looking statements, are described under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Forward-Looking Statements" in our 2006 Form 10-K, filed on April 2, 2007, and in our other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available at the SEC's website at
www.sec.gov
. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than we have described. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE: SE) is one of North America's premier natural gas infrastructure companies serving three key links in the natural gas value chain: gathering and processing, transmission and storage and distribution. For close to a century, Spectra Energy and its predecessor companies have developed critically important pipelines and related energy infrastructure connecting natural gas supply sources to premium markets. Based in Houston, Texas, the company operates in the United States and Canada approximately 17,500 miles of transmission pipeline, 265 billion cubic feet of storage, natural gas gathering and processing, natural gas liquids operations and local distribution assets. Spectra Energy Corp also has a 50 percent ownership in DCP Midstream, one of the largest natural gas gatherers and processors in the United States. Visit
www.spectraenergy.com
for more information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are net of minority interest, if applicable
 
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing) - in millions
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are net of minority interest, if applicable.
 
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing) - in millions
 
 


