FILE:SE/SE-8K-20070625193535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On June 21, 2007, Anthony Comper was appointed to the Board of Directors of Spectra Energy Corp (the "Company") to fill a new director position. Mr. Comper was appointed to serve as a Class II director. The term of office for the Class II directors expires in 2008. Mr. Comper will serve on the Compensation Committee and the Finance and Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Comper and any other persons or entities pursuant to which Mr. Comper was appointed as a director. As a non-employee director, Mr. Comper will receive compensation in accordance with the Company's policies for compensating outside directors.
The Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Comper to the Board on June 25, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 25, 2007
 

 
HOUSTON  Spectra Energy Corp has appointed Anthony Comper, the recently retired President and Chief Executive Officer of BMO Financial Group, to the company's board of directors. Mr. Comper will serve on the Compensation Committee and the Finance and Risk Management Committee.
Mr. Comper is an established Canadian business leader with over three decades of experience in banking, finance and international business. He has served in numerous management positions with BMO Financial Group.
"We are delighted to have Tony join our board," said Paul Anderson, Chairman, Spectra Energy. "He is a very dynamic, experienced executive with a rich and extensive background which will clearly further strengthen our board."
Previously elected members to the Spectra Energy Board are: Paul M. Anderson, chairman; and Fred J. Fowler, Martha B. Wyrsch, Roger Agnelli, William T. Esrey, Dennis R. Hendrix, Austin A. Adams, Peter B. Hamilton, Michael E.J. Phelps and Pamela L. Carter.
Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE: SE) is one of North America's premier pure play natural gas midstream companies serving three key links in the natural gas value
chain: gathering and processing, transmission and storage and distribution. For close to a century, Spectra Energy and its predecessor companies have developed critically important pipelines and related energy infrastructure connecting natural gas supply sources to premium markets. Based in Houston, Texas, the company operates in the United States and Canada approximately 17,500 miles of transmission pipeline, 265 billion cubic feet of storage, natural gas gathering and processing, natural gas liquids operations and local distribution assets. Spectra Energy Corp also has a 50 percent ownership in DCP Midstream, one of the largest natural gas gatherers and processors in the United States. Visit for more information.
www.spectraenergy.com


