FILE:SE/SE-8K-20070131170510.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
On January 31, 2007, Spectra Energy Corp issued a press release announcing the settlement of outstanding litigation related to a contract dispute between Citrus Trading Corp. and Spectra LNG Sales (formerly known as Duke Energy LNG Sales, Inc.), a subsidiary of Spectra Energy Corp. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 31, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
HOUSTON  Spectra Energy Corp announced today that it has agreed to settle outstanding litigation related to a contract dispute between Citrus Trading Corp. (Citrus) and Spectra LNG Sales (formerly known as Duke Energy LNG Sales, Inc.), a subsidiary of Spectra Energy.
The Citrus litigation was a liability assumed by Spectra Energy in connection with its spinoff from Duke Energy Corp on Jan. 2, 2007.
Under the terms of the settlement agreement, Spectra Energy will pay Citrus $100 million to settle a contract dispute that arose in connection with a 1998 contract regarding the purchase and re-sale of liquefied natural gas.
In December 2006, Spectra Energy Capital LLC (formerly known as Duke Capital LLC) had announced it would establish a reserve of $45 million associated with this liability. As a result of the settlement reached yesterday, the reserve recognized by Spectra Energy Capital in its fourth quarter 2006 results of operations has increased to $100 million. Spectra Energy Capital became a subsidiary of Spectra Energy on Jan. 1, 2007 in conjunction with its separation from Duke Energy.
Spectra Energy admitted no liability or fault for the matters alleged in the lawsuit.
"We are pleased to have settled this legacy contract dispute in a rational manner," said Fred Fowler, chief executive officer, Spectra Energy. "We believe this was the right course of action and outcome for our shareholders."
(NYSE: SE) is one of North America's premier pure play natural gas midstream companies serving three key links in the natural gas value chain: gathering and processing, transmission and storage and distribution. For close to a century, Spectra Energy and its predecessor companies have developed critically important pipelines and related energy infrastructure connecting natural gas supply sources to premium markets. Based in Houston, Texas, the company operates in the United States and Canada approximately 17,500 miles of transmission pipeline, 250 billion cubic feet of storage, natural gas gathering and processing, natural gas liquids operations and local distribution assets. Spectra Energy Corp also has a 50 percent ownership in DCP Midstream, one of the largest natural gas gatherers and processors in the United States. Visit
Spectra Energy Corp
www.spectraenergy.com
for more information.


