FILE:SE/SE-8K-20081204170914.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On December 1, 2008, the Board of Directors of Spectra Energy Corp appointed John Patrick (Pat) Reddy, age 55, as Chief Financial Officer, effective January 1, 2009. Mr. Reddy currently serves as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Atmos Energy Corporation, a position he has held since September 2000.
Mr. Reddy will receive a base salary at an annual rate of $500,000, subject to annual review. He will also receive an annual short-term incentive opportunity equal to 75% of his annual base salary based on the achievement of individual and company performance criteria to be established by Spectra Energy's Compensation Committee and an annual long-term incentive opportunity under our 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan equal to 155% of his base salary. Upon commencing employment, Mr. Reddy will receive a cash payment of $82,000 and will be granted phantom stock units with a value of $300,000, based on the value of Spectra Energy's common stock on the grant date. The phantom stock units will be granted under our 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan and will vest ratably over five years. Mr. Reddy will be entitled to participate in our other benefit, change of control and deferred compensation arrangements on terms consistent with those applicable to other executives generally.
A copy of the news release relating to this disclosure is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 5.02.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 4, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE: SE) today announced the appointment of John Patrick (Pat) Reddy as its new chief financial officer (CFO).
HOUSTON 
Reddy, currently senior vice president and CFO with Atmos Energy Corporation in Dallas, will join Spectra Energy on January 1, 2009.
"We are extremely pleased to have such an experienced financial executive as Pat join our team," said Greg Ebel, current CFO and incoming CEO, Spectra Energy. "His strong background, deep experience and excellent track record as a chief financial officer in our sector will be a tremendous asset to the company."
"Spectra Energy is a young company that has accomplished a great deal since its launch in 2007, and is well positioned to continue delivering value for its shareholders," said Reddy. "I look forward to helping support and contribute to the company's future growth and success."
Reddy has more than 28 years of finance experience in the energy industry. Prior to his current role, Reddy held the position of vice president, corporate development, and treasurer, with Atmos Energy Corporation, where he has been since 1998. Prior to that, he served as vice president, planning and advisory services, for Pacific Enterprises.
Reddy holds a master's degree in business administration (MBA) from the University of Southern California and a bachelor's degree in political science (BA) from the University of California at Los Angeles.
Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE: SE), a FORTUNE 500 company, is one of North America's premier natural gas infrastructure companies serving three key links in the natural gas value chain: gathering and processing, transmission and storage, and distribution. For nearly a century, Spectra Energy and its predecessor companies have developed critically important pipelines and related infrastructure connecting natural gas supply sources to premium markets. Based in Houston, Texas, the company operates in the United States and Canada approximately 18,300 miles of transmission pipeline, 265 billion cubic feet of storage, natural gas gathering and processing, natural gas liquids operations and local distribution assets. Spectra Energy Corp also has a 50 percent ownership in DCP Midstream, the largest natural gas gatherer and processor in the United States. Visit www.spectraenergy.com for more information.


