FILE:SE/SE-8K-20080118175716.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 17, 2008, Spectra Energy Corp presented its 2008 outlook and financial plan to analysts and investors and issued a news release regarding the information presented. Some of the financial information contained in the presentation and the press release relates to the 2007 fiscal year. A copy of the presentation is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and a copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
99.1    Spectra Energy Corp 2008 Outlook and Financial Plan, dated January 17, 2008
99.2    Press Release of Spectra Energy Corp, dated January 17, 2008
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 18, 2008
 

Spectra Energy Corp
Non-GAAP Reconciliation for SEC Regulation G
2008 Outlook and Financial Plan
January 17, 2008
Employee Incentive Targets
The materials for Spectra Energy's 2008 Outlook and Financial Plan January 17, 2008 presentation include a discussion of the 2007 and 2008 ongoing fully diluted earnings per share ("EPS") employee incentive targets and targeted annual ongoing diluted EPS growth from 2007-2009 for Spectra Energy. The EPS measure used for employee incentive bonuses is based on ongoing fully diluted EPS. Ongoing fully diluted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents fully diluted EPS from continuing operations adjusted for the per-share impact of special items. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for ongoing fully diluted EPS is fully diluted EPS from continuing operations, which includes the impact of special items. Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP financial measure, information to reconcile it to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time, as management is unable to forecast any special items for future periods.
2008 Forecasted Ongoing Net Income
The materials for Spectra Energy's 2008 Outlook and Financial Plan January 17, 2008 presentation include a discussion of the 2008 forecasted ongoing net income. Ongoing net income is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents net income adjusted for the impact of special items. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for ongoing net income is net income, which includes the impact of special items. Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP financial measure, information to reconcile it to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time, as management is unable to forecast any special items for future periods.
Forecasted 2008 Total Ongoing Segment and Other EBIT and EBITDA
The materials for Spectra Energy's 2008 Outlook and Financial Plan January 17, 2007 presentation include a discussion of forecasted 2008 ongoing EBIT and EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization) for Spectra Energy's reportable segments and for Other, which represents the remainder of Spectra Energy's operations. Forecasted 2008 ongoing segment and Other EBIT and EBITDA amounts are non-GAAP financial measures as they reflect segment and Other EBIT and EBITDA adjusted for the impact of special
items. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis. The most directly comparable GAAP measures for forecasted ongoing segment and Other EBIT and EBITDA are reported segment and Other EBIT and depreciation and amortization from continuing operations, which includes the impact of special items. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for total ongoing segment and Other EBIT and EBITDA is reported earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, which includes the impact of special items. Due to the forward-looking nature of these non-GAAP financial measures for future periods, information to reconcile these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time, as management is unable to forecast any special items for any future periods.
Credit Metrics
The materials for Spectra Energy's 2008 Outlook and Financial Plan January 17, 2008 presentation include a discussion of credit metrics including Funds From Operations (FFO) to Total Debt and an FFO Interest Coverage ratio. These metrics reflect non-GAAP financial measures. FFO is calculated as cash provided by operating activities on a GAAP basis less changes in working capital. The numerator of the FFO Interest Coverage ratio is FFO plus cash paid for interest, inclusive of capitalized interest. The denominator of the FFO Interest Coverage ratio is calculated as total interest expense, inclusive of capitalized interest.
Spectra Energy Corp
Cash Flow Reconciliation Required by SEC Regulation G
2008 Outlook and Financial Plan
January 17, 2008
($ in Millions)
 
Notes:
 
Spectra Energy Corp
Credit Metrics Reconciliations Required by SEC Regulation G
2008 Outlook and Financial Plan
January 17, 2008
($ in Millions)
 
DCP Midstream
Non-GAAP Reconciliation for SEC Regulation G
2008 Outlook and Financial Plan
January 17, 2008
Reconciliation of non-GAAP EBITDA
and EBIT to Net Income
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
HOUSTON  Spectra Energy (NYSE:SE) rolled out its financial plan for 2008 and beyond for analysts and investors today at a meeting in New York.
As part of its 2008 strategy, the Company expects to bring into service approximately $1.5 billion in new pipeline, gas processing, storage and distribution projects. This will involve continuing to invest more than $1 billion in projects a year over the 2008 to 2010 period which the Company expects will generate more than $500 million annually in incremental annual earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) by 2011. The Company also announced in January a 4 cent increase in its annual dividend, bringing it to 92 cents per share, in line with its targeted 60 percent payout ratio.
 
"In 2007 we demonstrated our ability to execute on our growth plan and at the same time reduced costs, maintained a strong balance sheet and met our financial targets. We also made significant strides in our three year capital expansion plan, investing more than $1 billion in capital expenditures in 2007, and placing into service 13 strategic new projects with a total capital invested of about $650 million," said Fred Fowler, president and chief executive officer, Spectra Energy. "We expect to exceed our previously stated 2007 ongoing diluted earnings per share (EPS) employee incentive target of $1.40 and are well positioned to build on this momentum in 2008 by implementing our key strategies to deliver profitable growth."
The company reiterated it's previously announced 2008 ongoing diluted EPS employee incentive target of $1.56 per share, an 11 percent increase over the 2007 target.
"We had a stand-out first year in 2007, and we look forward to delivering a stronger year two," said Fowler.
The webcast and full presentation from today's meeting is available on the investors' section of company's web site at .
www.spectraenergy.com
Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE: SE) is one of North America's premier natural gas infrastructure companies serving three key links in the natural gas value chain: gathering and processing, transmission and storage and distribution. For close to a century, Spectra Energy and its predecessor companies have developed critically important pipelines and related energy infrastructure connecting natural gas supply sources to premium markets. Based in Houston, Texas, the company operates in the United States and Canada approximately 17,500 miles of transmission pipeline, 265 billion cubic feet of storage, natural gas gathering and processing, natural gas liquids operations and local distribution assets. Spectra Energy Corp also has a 50 percent ownership in DCP Midstream, one of the largest natural gas gatherers and processors in the United States. Visit www.spectraenergy.com for more information.
 
Forward Looking Statements
This release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements represent our intentions, plans, expectations, assumptions and beliefs about future events. This release includes forward-looking statements concerning future developments at our facilities, including the anticipated timing and amount of planned capital expansions and anticipated future natural gas pipeline capacity as well as the demand for such capacity. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside our control and could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. Those factors include: the timing and success of efforts to develop infrastructure projects; the timing and receipt of required regulatory approvals; the timing and receipt of sufficient capacity commitments for the described project; and fluctuations in the demand for natural gas in the markets serviced by the described project. These factors, as well as additional factors that could affect our forward-looking statements, are described in our Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 2, 2007, and other filings that we make with the SEC, which are available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than we have described. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Non-GAAP Reconciliation for SEC Regulation G
This release includes a discussion of the 2007 and 2008 ongoing fully diluted earnings per share ("EPS") employee incentive targets for Spectra Energy. The EPS measure used for employee incentive bonuses is based on ongoing fully diluted EPS. Ongoing fully diluted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents fully diluted EPS from continuing operations adjusted for the per-share impact of special items. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for ongoing
 
fully diluted EPS is fully diluted EPS from continuing operations, which includes the impact of special items. Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP financial measure, information to reconcile it to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time, as management is unable to forecast any special items for future periods.
This release also includes a discussion of estimated annual EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) to be generated from planned expansion capital investments. EBIT is a non-GAAP financial measure. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for EBIT is earnings from continuing operations before income taxes excluding interest income and expense. Due to the forward-looking nature of this financial measure for future periods, information to reconcile this non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time, as management is unable to forecast interest and taxes applicable to earnings generated from the planned expansions for any future periods.
 


