FILE:SE/SE-8K-20080208172220.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 6, 2008, Spectra Energy Corp issued a news release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2007. A copy of this news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 8, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Spectra Energy Reports Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2007 Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Spectra Energy (NYSE:SE) today reported 2007 fourth quarter net income of $291 million, or $0.46 per share, up 14 percent over the prior year quarter net income of $255 million. Ongoing net income was $297 million compared with $253 million in the prior year quarter.
HOUSTON
 
The higher fourth quarter results reflect strong earnings at all businesses, partially offset by higher corporate costs, and a higher effective tax rate.
"We had a very strong quarter which contributed to an outstanding year," said Fred Fowler, president and chief executive officer of Spectra Energy. "I am confident we will maintain our strong momentum as we move into 2008, and we will continue to execute on our plan with diligence and focus."
Reported diluted earnings per share (EPS) for 2007 were $1.51, and reported net income was $957 million, compared with 2006 reported net income of $1.2 billion. 2006 results included $308 million for businesses that were retained by Duke Energy Corporation as part of the January 2007 spin-off of Spectra Energy.
Annual results reflect strong earnings at U.S. Transmission and Distribution, and higher commodity prices benefiting Western Canada and Field Services operations.
"We kept our promises and had an extremely successful first year. We beat our EPS employee incentive target, made tremendous progress on our capital expansion program, maintained an investment grade balance sheet, launched our master limited partnership at a record yield, and last month increased our annual dividend by 4 cents a share," concluded Fowler.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT PROGRESS
Annual capital expenditures totaled $1.5 billion with $1.0 billion of that directed toward expansion projects. During 2007, pipeline and storage expansion projects totaling $650 million were brought into service. Those projects will fuel revenue and earnings growth as the company moves into 2008.
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
U.S. Transmission
U.S. Transmission reported fourth quarter 2007 segment earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) of $221 million compared with $172 million in fourth quarter of 2006.
Strong revenues from U.S. pipeline and storage activities, primarily reflecting higher demand for services and increased earnings from expansion projects, drove the improvement. Higher commodity prices for gas processing associated with pipeline operations, and lower project development expenses in the fourth quarter of 2007 also contributed to the increase in segment earnings.
Year-end segment EBIT for U.S. Transmission increased 10 percent over the prior year with annual reported EBIT of $894 million compared with $816 million in 2006.
Spectra Energy's U.S. Transmission business provides transportation and storage of natural gas for customers in various regions of the Northeast and Southeast United States and the Maritimes Provinces in Canada.
Distribution
Distribution reported fourth quarter 2007 segment EBIT of $84 million, which was unchanged compared with last year. The Distribution segment benefited during the 2007 period from increased customer usage as a result of colder weather, as well as additional load from gas-fired power generation, higher distribution rates, and a stronger Canadian dollar as compared to fourth quarter 2006. These earnings contributions were offset by higher operating costs.
Year-end segment EBIT for Distribution increased 22 percent over the prior year with annual reported EBIT of $322 million compared with $265 million in 2006.
 
Spectra Energy's Distribution segment provides natural gas distribution services to commercial, industrial and residential customers in Ontario, as well as storage and transportation services for other utilities and end market participants in Ontario, Quebec, and the United States.
Western Canada Transmission & Processing
Western Canada Transmission & Processing reported fourth quarter 2007 segment EBIT of $142 million compared with $76 million in the fourth quarter 2006. The increase in EBIT primarily resulted from stronger NGL prices that benefited the Empress operations, as well as a stronger Canadian dollar in the fourth quarter 2007.
Year-end segment EBIT for Western Canada Transmission & Processing increased 6 percent over the prior year with annual reported EBIT of $366 million compared with $345 million in 2006.
The Western Canada Transmission & Processing business is focused on the gathering, processing and transmission of natural gas, and the extraction, fractionation, transportation, storage and marketing of natural gas liquids.
Field Services
Field Services, which consists of Spectra Energy's 50 percent interest in DCP Midstream, reported fourth quarter 2007 segment EBIT of $188 million which includes $6 million in costs related to the creation of stand-alone corporate functions. Ongoing fourth quarter 2007 segment EBIT of $194 million improved over the prior year quarter EBIT of $119 million. Earnings benefited from favorable oil prices, which averaged $91 per barrel in fourth quarter 2007 versus $61 per barrel in fourth quarter 2006, but were partially offset by lower margins due to a changed contract mix and lower plant efficiencies.
 
During the quarter, Field Services paid distributions of $260 million to Spectra Energy.
Year-end segment reported EBIT for Field Services was $533 million compared with $569 million in 2006.
DCP Midstream is a gathering and processing, transportation, storage and marketing company which is jointly owned by Spectra Energy and ConocoPhillips.
Other
"Other" reported net costs of $56 million in the fourth quarter of 2007, including $8 million of gas operations separation costs, compared with net costs of $12 million in the fourth quarter of 2006, including $17 million of costs to achieve the Duke Energy / Cinergy merger and the launch of Spectra Energy. The prior year also includes $24 million for management fees billed to Duke Energy affiliates and mark-to-market gains on discontinued hedge contracts. Excluding these items, net corporate costs were $29 million higher in fourth quarter 2007 compared with the prior year quarter; 2007 fourth quarter net corporate costs included higher employee incentive and benefits costs.
Year-end reported net costs for "Other" were $112 million for 2007, which includes $23 million of separation costs, compared with $77 million in 2006 which includes $35 million of costs to achieve the Duke Energy / Cinergy merger and separation costs.
"Other" is primarily comprised of corporate costs and results from captive insurance.
Interest Expense
Interest expense was $166 million for the quarter compared with $162 million for the fourth quarter 2006.
 
Income Taxes
Fourth quarter 2007 income tax expense from continuing operations was $129 million, compared with $42 million in fourth quarter 2006. For the 2007 quarter, Spectra Energy's effective tax rate was 31 percent compared with 15 percent in the prior year quarter. The lower tax rate for the prior period was primarily attributable to a tax benefit for the impairment of an international investment (no longer owned by Spectra Energy) and an adjustment of U.S. tax on the repatriation of Canadian earnings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Information
Additional information about fourth quarter and year-end 2007 earnings can be obtained at the Spectra Energy Web site: .
www.spectraenergy.com
The Analyst call is scheduled for 9 a.m. CST today, Wednesday, February 6, to discuss Spectra Energy's fourth quarter and year end results. The conference call can be accessed via the of Spectra Energy's Web site or by dialing (888) 252-3715 in the United States or (706) 634-8942 outside the United States. The confirmation code is "30607590" or "Spectra Energy 4
investors' section
th
Qtr Earnings Call."
Please call in five to ten minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the conference call will be available until midnight CST, May 10, 2008, by dialing (800) 642-1687 with a Conference ID 30607590. The international replay number is (706) 645-9291, Conference ID 30607590. A replay and transcript also will be available by accessing the of the company's Web site.
investors' section
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The primary performance measure used by management to evaluate segment performance is segment EBIT from continuing operations, which at the segment
 
level represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating), including any equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the minority interest expense related to those profits. Management believes segment EBIT from continuing operations, which is the GAAP measure used to report segment results, is a good indicator of each segment's operating performance as it represents the results of our ownership interests in continuing operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures.
Spectra Energy's management uses ongoing diluted EPS, which is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations, adjusted for special items, as a measure to evaluate operations of the company. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis. Management believes that the presentation of ongoing diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare the company's ongoing performance across periods. Ongoing diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses.
Spectra Energy also uses ongoing segment and Other EBIT as a measure of performance. Ongoing segment and Other EBIT are non-GAAP financial measures as they represent reported segment and Other EBIT adjusted for special items. Management believes that the presentation of ongoing segment and Other EBIT provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare a segment's or Other's ongoing performance across periods. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for ongoing segment or Other EBIT is reported segment or Other EBIT, which represents EBIT from continuing operations, including any special items.
Forward-looking statement
This release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Forward-looking statements represent our intentions, plans, expectations, assumptions and beliefs about future events. One can typically identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words such as: may, will, could, project, believe, expect, estimate, continue, potential, plan, forecast and other similar words. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside our control and could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. Those factors include: the levels of supply and demand for natural gas in our areas of operation; our ability to identify opportunities for our business units and the timing and success of efforts to develop pipeline, storage, gathering, processing and other infrastructure projects; our ability to successfully complete and integrate future acquisitions; the extent of success in connecting natural gas supplies to gathering, processing and transmission systems and in connecting to expanding gas markets; the implementation of state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an effect on rate structure, and affect the speed at and degree to which competition enters the natural gas industries; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including our credit ratings and general economic conditions; and our ability to operate effectively as a stand-alone, publicly-traded company. These factors, as well as additional factors that could affect our forward-looking statements, are described under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Forward-Looking Statements" in our 2006 Form 10-K, filed on April 2, 2007, and in our other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than we have described. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE: SE) is one of North America's premier natural gas infrastructure companies serving three key links in the natural gas value chain: gathering and processing, transmission and storage and distribution. For close to a century, Spectra Energy and its predecessor companies have developed critically important pipelines and related energy infrastructure connecting natural gas supply sources to premium markets. Based in Houston, Texas, the company operates in the United States and Canada approximately 17,500 miles of transmission pipeline, 265 billion cubic feet of storage, natural gas gathering and processing, natural gas liquids operations and local distribution assets. Spectra Energy Corp also has a 50 percent ownership in DCP Midstream, one of the largest natural gas gatherers and processors in the United States. Visit for more information.
www.spectraenergy.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are net of minority interest, if applicable
A - Costs to create stand-alone corporate functions at DCP Midstream.
B - Separation costs resulting from the spin-off from Duke Energy.
C - LNG litigation costs & Businesses sold or transferred to Duke.
D - Adjustment of deferred tax liability for deregulated storage at Distribution.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing) - in millions
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are net of minority interest, if applicable.
A - $11 million Gas Spin-Off costs to achieve allocated from Duke Energy; $6 million Cinergy merger costs to achieve allocated from Duke Energy.
B - Businesses sold or transferred to Duke.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing) - in millions
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are net of minority interest, if applicable
A - Costs to create stand-alone corporate functions at DCP Midstream.
B - Separation costs resulting from the spin-off from Duke Energy.
C - LNG litigation costs & businesses sold or transferred to Duke
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing) - in millions
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are net of minority interest, if applicable.
A - $23 million recorded in Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net and $1 million recorded in Other Income and Expenses, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B - Recorded in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
C - $15 million Separation costs resulting from the spin-off from Duke Energy, $20 million Cinergy costs to achieve allocated from Duke.
D - Gain on sale of Crescent interest and businesses transferred to Duke Energy prior to the spin-off of Spectra Energy.
E - Gain related to Spectra Energy Income Fund's issuance of additional units for the purchase of Westcoast Gas Services Inc.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing) - in millions
 
 


