FILE:SE/SE-8K-20080806171649.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 6, 2008, Spectra Energy Corp issued a news release announcing its financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of this news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 6, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Spectra Energy (NYSE: SE) today reported 2008 second quarter net income of $295 million, or $0.47 diluted earnings per share (EPS); and ongoing net income of $274 million, or $0.44 EPS.
HOUSTON
The higher second quarter results reflect strong earnings from all business segments, primarily attributable to the positive effect of higher commodity prices and sound performance across all underlying businesses.
"We are extremely pleased with this quarter's results, which again reflect improved earnings for the fourth consecutive quarter. We exceeded last year's second quarter reported net income by 51 percent and currently expect to significantly exceed this year's $1.56 EPS employee incentive target," said Fred J. Fowler, president and chief executive officer, Spectra Energy.
"Assuming commodity prices stay at current levels through 2010, together with earnings from our $4 billion capital expansion plan, we expect to deliver average annual EPS growth of 8 percent. That, combined with a dividend yield of about 3.5 percent, takes our expected total shareholder return over the next several years to more than 10 percent," said Fowler.
Last quarter, Spectra Energy announced a $600 million share repurchase program. As of June 30, 2008, the company had repurchased 10.5 million shares valued at $284 million. The program is expected to be completed in third quarter 2008.
SEGMENT RESULTS
U.S. Transmission
U.S. Transmission reported second quarter 2008 earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) of $244 million, compared with $223 million in second quarter 2007. The increase was primarily due to a $31 million special item received from a customer bankruptcy settlement.
Excluding the above special item, ongoing EBIT for second quarter 2008 was $213 million, compared with $223 million in the prior year quarter. Earnings from expansion projects and higher earnings as a result of capitalized interest on construction projects benefited the segment in the 2008 quarter. These increases were offset by increased transmission and storage operations costs, and $18 million in higher project development expenses, primarily as a result of the capitalization of project development costs in the prior year quarter.
Distribution
Distribution reported second quarter 2008 EBIT of $54 million, which was unchanged compared with second quarter 2007. The segment benefited during the period from higher storage and transportation revenues and a strong Canadian dollar. The quarterly results were offset by a $15 million charge as a result of a decision from the Ontario Energy Board (OEB) related to Union Gas' unregulated storage revenues. Union Gas has appealed the OEB's decision and expects a ruling by year-end.
Western Canada Transmission & Processing
Western Canada Transmission & Processing reported second quarter 2008 EBIT of $87 million, compared with $48 million in second quarter 2007. The significant increase primarily resulted from higher frac spreads and volumes that benefited the Empress operations, a strong Canadian dollar and increased processing revenues.
Field Services
Field Services reported second quarter 2008 EBIT of $216 million, compared with $123 million last year. The significant increase in earnings is primarily due to higher NGL prices, which correlate to higher crude oil prices. Crude oil averaged $124 per barrel in second quarter 2008 versus $65 per barrel during the same period 2007.
This quarter's results also reflect improved plant operating efficiencies and higher volumes. These increases were partially offset by non-cash mark-to-market losses from hedges used to protect distributable cash flow at DCP Midstream's master limited partnership.
For the quarter, DCP Midstream paid distributions of $444 million to Spectra Energy, which included a $250 million special dividend received in April.
Other
"Other" reported net costs of $28 million in second quarter 2008, compared with $26 million in second quarter 2007. The 2007 period included special items of $7 million in costs associated with the launch of Spectra Energy. The increase in net costs in 2008 primarily results from higher insurance claims and benefits costs.
Interest Expense
Interest expense was $149 million for the quarter, compared with $156 million for second quarter 2007. The decrease resulted from lower interest rates on commercial paper and higher capitalized interest costs. These decreases were partially offset by the effects of the stronger Canadian dollar on interest expense denominated in Canadian dollars.
Income Taxes
Second quarter 2008 income tax expense from continuing operations was $134 million, compared with $85 million reported in second quarter 2007. The increase is a result of higher earnings in second quarter 2008. The effective tax rate was 31 percent in the second quarters of both 2008 and 2007.
 
 
 
Additional Information
Additional information about second quarter 2008 earnings can be obtained via the Spectra Energy Web site: .
www.spectraenergy.com
The Analyst call is scheduled for 9 a.m. CDT today, Wednesday, August 6, to discuss Spectra Energy's second quarter results. The conference call can be accessed via the of Spectra Energy's Web site or by dialing (888) 252-3715 in the United States or (706) 634-8942 outside the United States. The confirmation code is "55350961" or "Spectra Energy 2
Investors Section
nd
Quarter Earnings Call."
Please call five to ten minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the call will be available from 11 a.m. CDT on August 6, until 11 p.m. CDT, November 6, 2008, by dialing (800) 642-1687 with Conference ID 55350961. The international replay number is (706) 645-9291, Conference ID 55350961. A replay and transcript also will be available by accessing the  of the company's Web site.
Investors Section
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The primary performance measure used by management to evaluate segment performance is segment EBIT from continuing operations, which at the segment level represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating) before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the minority interest expense related to those earnings. Management considers segment EBIT from continuing operations, which is the GAAP measure used to report segment results, to be a good indicator of each segment's operating performance as it represents the results of our ownership interests in operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures. Spectra Energy's management uses ongoing net income and ongoing diluted EPS, which are non-GAAP financial measures as they represent net income and diluted EPS from continuing operations, adjusted for special items, as measures to evaluate operations of the company. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis. Management believes that the presentation of ongoing net income and ongoing diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare the company's ongoing performance across periods. Ongoing diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses.
Spectra Energy also uses ongoing segment and Other EBIT as a measure of performance. Ongoing segment and Other EBIT is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents reported segment and Other EBIT adjusted for special items. Management believes that the presentation of ongoing segment and Other EBIT provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare a segment's or Other's ongoing performance across periods. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for ongoing segment or Other EBIT is reported segment or Other EBIT, which represents EBIT from continuing operations, including any special items.
Forward-Looking Statement
This release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements represent our intentions, plans, expectations, assumptions and beliefs about future events. One can typically identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words such as: may, will, could, project, believe, expect, estimate, continue, potential, plan, forecast and other similar words. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside our control and could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. Those factors include: the levels of supply and demand for natural gas in our areas of operation; our ability to identify opportunities for our business units and the timing and success of efforts to develop pipeline, storage, gathering, processing and other infrastructure projects; our ability to successfully complete and integrate future acquisitions; the extent of success in connecting natural gas supplies to gathering, processing and transmission systems and in connecting to expanding gas markets; the implementation of state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an effect on rate structure, and affect the speed at and degree to which competition enters the natural gas industries; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including our credit ratings and general economic conditions. These factors, as well as additional factors that could affect our forward-looking statements, are described under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Forward-Looking Statements" in our 2007 Form 10-K, filed on February 29, 2008, and
in our other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which are available via the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than we have described. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE: SE), a company, is one of North America's premier natural gas infrastructure companies serving three key links in the natural gas value chain: gathering and processing, transmission and storage, and distribution. For nearly a century, Spectra Energy and its predecessor companies have developed critically important pipelines and related infrastructure connecting natural gas supply sources to premium markets. Based in Houston, Texas, the company operates in the United States and Canada approximately 18,000 miles of transmission pipeline, 265 billion cubic feet of storage, natural gas gathering and processing, natural gas liquids operations and local distribution assets. Spectra Energy Corp also has a 50 percent ownership in DCP Midstream, the largest natural gas gatherer and processor in the United States. For more information, visit .
FORTUNE 500
www.spectraenergy.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ABankruptcy settlement of a customer's transportation contract.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing)in millions
 
 
ACosts to create stand-alone corporate functions at DCP Midstream.
BSeparation costs resulting from the spin-off from Duke Energy.
CSonatrach settlement.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing)in millions
 


