FILE:SE/SE-8K-20080630171827.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 27, 2008, Spectra Energy announced that Fred J. Fowler will retire from his position as President and Chief Executive Officer of Spectra Energy Corp effective January 1, 2009. Also on June 27, 2008, Spectra Energy's Board of Directors appointed Gregory L. Ebel to succeed Mr. Fowler as President and Chief Executive Officer effective as of the date of Mr. Fowler's departure and elected Mr. Ebel as a new director effective immediately.
Mr. Ebel, age 44, currently serves as Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer of Spectra Energy. He served as President of Union Gas Limited, a subsidiary of Spectra Energy, from January 2005 until assuming his current position. From November 2002 until January 2005, Mr. Ebel served as Vice President, Investor & Shareholder Relations of Duke Energy Corporation and prior to that was managing director of mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Ebel also serves on the Board of Directors of DCP Midstream, LLC, which is 50% owned by Spectra Energy.
As of the time of the filing of this report, Spectra Energy has not entered into any material plan, contract or arrangement to which Mr. Ebel is a party or in which he participates, or any material amendment, in connection with the appointment described above. In the event of such a material plan, contract or arrangement, or material amendment, Spectra Energy will file an amendment to this report within four business days thereof.
A copy of the news release relating to this disclosure is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 5.02.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 30, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
The Board of Directors of Spectra Energy today announced that Greg Ebel, currently Spectra Energy's Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has been selected to succeed Fred Fowler as President and Chief Executive Officer upon Fowler's retirement at the end of 2008.
HOUSTON 
Ebel has also been elected to Spectra Energy's Board of Directors effective immediately.
Paul Anderson, Chairman of the Board of Directors said, "Some time ago, Fred advised the Board of his intention to retire at the end of this year. We are announcing his successor at this time to allow for a smooth transition and to allow Greg the opportunity to develop the company's 2009 budget and underlying strategy for 2009 and beyond that he will be responsible for delivering. Fred will continue to be responsible for delivering the company's 2008 commitments."
"When Spectra Energy was launched in early 2007, it was Fred's intention to focus his leadership efforts in three main areas: successfully launching the new company,
developing a strategy to deliver long-term value and growth for shareholders, and developing his successor," continued Anderson. "He has done an outstanding job in achieving the first two objectives and will complete the third objective through a smooth transition."
"I have had a tremendously rewarding career and feel the time is right to begin the transition to the next generation of leadership," said Fowler. "Greg has the talent and background necessary to drive Spectra Energy to the next level and I am looking forward to seeing all he will accomplish."
"Effective immediately, I will be setting up an office of the CEO that will consist of Greg and me which will be responsible for coordinating matters related to the transition," continued Fowler.
"I am honored to be taking the reigns from someone who has done so much for this company and this industry, "said Ebel. "I am looking forward to building on the solid foundation Fred has put in place and ensuring that we are the company best positioned to meet the growing energy infrastructure needs of North America."
Prior to his current role as CFO for Spectra Energy, Ebel served as president of Union Gas Ltd, Spectra Energy's Canadian natural gas distribution company. He has broad experience in both the finance and energy sectors. He served as Duke Energy's vice president of investor and shareholder relations from 2002 to 2005 and prior to that, was managing director of mergers and acquisitions. From 1998 to 2002 he was vice president of strategic development for Westcoast Energy. He has also held senior roles at the World Bank in Washington DC and in the Canadian federal government. Ebel received a bachelor of arts degree from York University, Toronto, Ontario and is a graduate of the advanced management program at the Harvard Business School.
A FORTUNE 500 company, Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE: SE) is one of North America's premier natural gas infrastructure companies serving three key links in the natural gas value chain: gathering and processing, transmission and storage, and distribution. For nearly a century, Spectra Energy and its predecessor companies have developed critically important pipelines and related infrastructure connecting natural gas supply
sources to premium markets. Based in Houston, Texas, the company operates in the United States and Canada approximately 18,000 miles of transmission pipeline, 265 billion cubic feet of storage, natural gas gathering and processing, natural gas liquids operations and local distribution assets. Spectra Energy Corp also has a 50 percent ownership in DCP Midstream, the largest natural gas gatherer and processor in the United States. For more information, visit www.spectraenergy.com.


