FILE:SE/SE-8K-20090505064802.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 5, 2009, Spectra Energy Corp issued a news release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009. A copy of this news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 5, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE: SE) today reported 2009 first quarter net income from controlling interests of $298 million, or $0.47 diluted earnings per share (EPS), compared with $367 million, $0.58 diluted EPS, in the prior year quarter.
HOUSTON 
Reported first quarter results include a special item consisting of an $85 million after-tax gain at the Field Services business segment.
"We had a good quarter in a challenging environment and are pleased about where we are today," said Greg Ebel, president and chief executive officer, Spectra Energy Corp.
"Despite weaker than expected commodity prices and the Canadian exchange rate, there is good reason for optimism. Our core, fee-based businesses  which we expect will provide us with more than 80 percent of our earnings this year  all performed very well during the quarter. We put into service expansion projects in the United States and Canada, and made an attractive pipeline acquisition through our MLP," continued Ebel.
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
U.S. Transmission
U.S. Transmission reported first quarter 2009 earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) of $217 million, compared with $226 million in first quarter 2008. The segment benefited this quarter from business expansion projects placed into service last year. This was more than offset by lower gas processing revenues as a result of lower prices and volumes.
Distribution
Distribution reported first quarter 2009 EBIT of $152 million, compared with $165 million in first quarter 2008. Excluding the $36 million effect of the decline in the value of the Canadian dollar, earnings were $23 million higher, primarily as a result of higher storage and transportation revenues.
Western Canada Transmission & Processing
Western Canada Transmission & Processing reported first quarter 2009 EBIT of $81 million, compared with $129 million during first quarter 2008. Excluding the effect of the weaker Canadian dollar, earnings were $29 million lower than in 2008. Improved results in the base gathering and processing business were more than offset by lower Empress earnings, primarily as a result of lower natural gas liquids (NGL) prices.
Field Services
Field Services reported first quarter 2009 EBIT of $150 million, which includes a $135 million pre-tax recognition of a deferred gain associated with units previously issued by DCP Midstream's master limited partnership. Excluding this special item, the segment reported ongoing EBIT of $15 million, compared with $192 million in first quarter 2008. The decrease in earnings was primarily driven by lower NGL prices, which have a close relationship to lower crude oil prices. Crude oil averaged $43 per barrel during first quarter 2009 versus $98 per barrel during the same period in 2008. The NGL to crude oil relationship averaged 56 percent during first quarter 2009 versus 58 percent during the same period in 2008.
 
Other
"Other" reported net costs of $24 million in first quarter 2009, compared with net costs of $20 million in first quarter 2008.
Interest Expense
Interest expense was $150 million for first quarter 2009, compared with $158 million for first quarter 2008.
Income Taxes
First quarter 2009 income tax expense from continuing operations was $139 million, compared with $172 million reported in first quarter 2008. The decrease was primarily a result of lower earnings in the 2009 quarter. The effective tax rate was 31 percent in both first quarter 2009 and first quarter 2008.
 
 
 
Additional Information
Additional information about first quarter 2009 earnings can be obtained via the Spectra Energy Web site: .
www.spectraenergy.com
The Analyst call is scheduled for 9 a.m. CT today, Tuesday, May 5, to discuss Spectra Energy's first quarter results. The conference call can be accessed via the of Spectra Energy's Web site or by dialing (888) 252-3715 in the United States or Canada, or (706) 634-8942 outside the United States. The confirmation code is "95191276" or "Spectra Energy 1
Investors Section
st
Quarter Earnings Call."
Please call five to ten minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the call will be available until 7:00 p.m. CT, August 4, 2009, by dialing (800) 642-1687 with conference ID 95191276. The international replay number is (706) 645-9291, with above conference ID. A replay and transcript also will be available by accessing the  of the company's Web site.
Investors Section
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We use ongoing net income and ongoing diluted EPS, which are non-GAAP financial measures as they represent net income (controlling interests) and diluted EPS from continuing operations, adjusted for special items, as measures to evaluate operations of the company. Special items represent certain charges and credits which we believe will not be recurring on a regular basis. We believe that the presentation of ongoing net income and ongoing diluted EPS provide useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare our ongoing performance across periods. Ongoing diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses.
 
The primary performance measure used by us to evaluate segment performance is segment EBIT from continuing operations, which at the segment level represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating) before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of non-controlling interests related to those profits. We consider segment EBIT from continuing operations, which is the GAAP measure used to report segment results, to be a good indicator of each segment's operating performance as it represents the results of our ownership interests in operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures.
We also use ongoing segment and Other EBIT as a measure of performance. Ongoing segment and Other EBIT is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents reported segment and Other EBIT adjusted for special items. We believe that the presentation of ongoing segment and Other EBIT provide useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare a segment's or Other's ongoing performance across periods. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for ongoing segment or Other EBIT is reported segment or Other EBIT, which represents EBIT from continuing operations, including any special items.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements represent our intentions, plans, expectations, assumptions and beliefs about future events. One can typically identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words such as: may, will, could, project, believe, expect, estimate, continue, potential, plan, forecast and other similar words. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside our control and could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. Those factors include: the implementation of state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an effect on rate structure, and affect the speed at and degree to which competition enters the natural gas industries; the outcome of litigation and regulatory investigations, proceedings or inquiries; the effect of weather and other natural phenomena, including the economic, operational and other effects of hurricanes
 
and storms; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including our credit ratings and general economic conditions; the levels of supply and demand for natural gas in our areas of operation; the results of financing efforts, including the ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including credit ratings and general market and economic conditions; increases in the cost of goods and services required to complete capital projects; declines in the market prices of equity and debt securities and resulting funding requirements for defined benefit pension plans; the effects of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; the extent of success in connecting natural gas supplies to gathering, processing and transmission systems and in connecting to expanding gas markets; our ability to identify opportunities for our business units and the timing and success of efforts to develop pipeline, storage, gathering, processing and other infrastructure projects; and our ability to successfully complete and integrate future acquisitions. These factors, as well as additional factors that could affect our forward-looking statements, are described under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Forward-Looking Statements" in our 2008 Form 10-K, filed on February 27, 2009, and in our other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which are available via the SEC's Web site at www.sec.gov. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than we have described. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE: SE), a company, is one of North America's premier natural gas infrastructure companies serving three key links in the natural gas value chain: gathering and processing, transmission and storage, and distribution. For nearly a century, Spectra Energy and its predecessor companies have developed critically important pipelines and related infrastructure connecting natural gas supply sources to premium markets. Based in Houston, Texas, the company operates in the United States and Canada approximately 18,900 miles of transmission pipeline, more than 275 billion cubic feet of storage, as well as natural gas gathering and
FORTUNE 500
 
processing, natural gas liquids operations and local distribution assets. The company also has a 50 percent ownership in DCP Midstream, one of the largest natural gas gatherers and processors in the United States. Spectra Energy was recently ranked by as the world's "most admired" pipeline company. For more information, visit .
FORTUNE
www.spectraenergy.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A - Recognition of a deferred gain associated with units previously issued by DCP Midstream's master limited partnership.
B - Sonatrach settlement.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing) - in millions
 
 
 
A - Net results from Nevis and Brazeau River gathering and processing facilities in Western Canada.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing) - in millions
 
 


