FILE:SE/SE-8K-20090514170942.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 14, 2009, Maritimes & Northeast Pipeline, L.L.C., ("Maritimes & Northeast"), the member interests of which are owned through subsidiaries approximately 77.5% by Spectra Energy, 13% by Emera, Inc. and 9.5% by Exxon Mobil Corporation, issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of its 7.5% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "Notes"). The Notes were offered only to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A. The Notes have not and will not be registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Act") or any state securities laws, and may not be offered or sold except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Act and applicable state securities laws. The net proceeds of the offering will be used to fund a cash distribution to its members.
The Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, dated May 14, 2009, among Maritimes & Northeast and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee (the "Indenture"). Interest on the Notes will accrue from May 14, 2009. Maritimes & Northeast will pay interest on the Notes and make amortizing principal payments semi-annually on May 31 and November 30 of each year, beginning on November 30, 2009, until the Notes mature on May 31, 2014. Maritimes & Northeast may redeem some or all of the Notes at any time or from time to time pursuant to the terms of the Indenture. The Indenture contains covenants that limit the ability of Maritimes & Northeast to, among other things, incur indebtedness, make distributions, create liens on or sell its principal assets or merge with other entities. If an event of default, as specified in the Indenture, shall occur and be continuing, the maturity date of the Notes may accelerate. Payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest in respect of the Notes will be solely obligations of Maritimes & Northeast and noteholders will have no recourse against any member of Maritimes & Northeast.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 14, 2009


