FILE:SE/SE-8K-20091105072548.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 5, 2009, Spectra Energy Corp issued a news release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009. A copy of this news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
 
99.1  Press Release of Spectra Energy Corp, dated November 5, 2009
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 5, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE: SE) today reported 2009 third quarter net income from controlling interests of $191 million, or $0.30 EPS, compared with $296 million, or $0.48 diluted EPS, in the prior year quarter. Ongoing net income was $190 million, or $0.30 EPS, versus $302 million, or $0.49 EPS, during the same period last year.
HOUSTON 
"Spectra Energy had a solid quarter. We saw good performance from our fee-based businesses, which helped to offset the effects of much lower commodity prices, and continued executing extremely well on our capital expansion plan. Our 2009 expansion projects are being completed on time and on budget and we are realizing returns on these projects that exceed the high end of our expectations," said Greg Ebel, president and chief executive officer, Spectra Energy Corp.
"We are on track to meet the financial goals we have set for the year, including our 2009 EPS target of $1.15 and, given our 2010 expansion projects, we are well positioned to experience good earnings growth," said Ebel.
SEGMENT RESULTS
U.S. Transmission
U.S. Transmission reported third quarter 2009 earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) of $239 million, compared with $213 million in third quarter 2008. The 2008 period included a $4 million charge for the final resolution of a customer bankruptcy settlement.
Ongoing EBIT for third quarter 2009 was $239 million and, excluding the above special item, compares with $217 million in the prior year quarter. The segment benefited from business expansion projects and capitalization of previously expensed project development costs. These earnings were partially offset by lower gas processing revenues as a result of lower prices and volumes, and a non-cash regulatory accounting adjustment related to Southeast Supply Header.
Distribution
Distribution reported third quarter 2009 EBIT of $48 million, compared with $44 million in third quarter 2008. Excluding the effect of the weaker Canadian dollar, earnings were $6 million higher this quarter. The segment continued to benefit from higher storage and transportation revenues during the period.
Western Canada Transmission & Processing
Western Canada Transmission & Processing reported third quarter 2009 EBIT of $84 million, compared with $113 million during third quarter 2008. Excluding the effect of the weaker Canadian dollar, earnings were $24 million lower than in 2008. Improved revenues in the fee-based gathering and processing business, due primarily to stronger activity in the Fort Nelson and Grizzly Valley regions, were more than offset by lower Empress earnings, primarily as a result of lower frac spreads. Frac spreads at Empress averaged $6.75 for the quarter, compared with $10.86 in third quarter 2008.
Field Services
Field Services reported third quarter 2009 EBIT of $45 million, compared with $239 million in third quarter 2008. The decrease in earnings was primarily driven by lower commodity prices. During third quarter 2009, crude oil averaged approximately $68 per barrel, compared with approximately $118 per barrel in the prior year quarter and the NGL to crude relationship averaged 42 percent versus 51 percent in third quarter 2008. Additionally, NYMEX natural gas averaged $3.39 per million British thermal unit (MMBtu), compared with $10.24 per MMBtu during the same period in 2008.
Third quarter results were also affected by higher interest expense and lower non-cash mark-to-market gains on hedges used to protect distributable cash flow at DCP Midstream's master limited partnership. The decrease in earnings was partially offset by lower operating costs as a result of continued cost reduction initiatives.
For the quarter, DCP Midstream paid distributions of $31 million to Spectra Energy. DCP Midstream expects to have paid to Spectra Energy distributions totalling approximately $100 million by the end of the year.
Other
"Other" reported net costs of $10 million in third quarter 2009, compared with net costs of $9 million in third quarter 2008.
Interest Expense
Interest expense was $160 million for third quarter 2009, compared with $163 million for third quarter 2008.
Income Taxes
Third quarter 2009 income tax expense from continuing operations was $54 million, compared with $145 million reported in third quarter 2008. The decrease was primarily a result of lower earnings in 2009, as well as a lower effective tax rate. The effective tax rate was 20 percent in third quarter 2009, compared with 32 percent in third quarter 2008. The lower effective tax rate in third quarter 2009 is primarily the result of a higher proportion of earnings coming from Canadian sources that are taxed at lower rates, and favorable tax settlements.
 
 
 
Additional Information
Additional information about third quarter 2009 earnings can be obtained via the Spectra Energy Web site: .
www.spectraenergy.com
The Analyst call is scheduled for 9 a.m. CT today, November 5, to discuss Spectra Energy's third quarter results. The webcast can be accessed via the of Spectra Energy's Web site and the conference call can be accessed by dialing (888) 252-3715 in the United States or Canada, or (706) 634-8942 for International. The conference code is "34956220" or "Spectra Energy Quarterly Earnings Call."
Investors Section
Please call five to ten minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the call will be available until 7:00 p.m. CT, February 12, 2010, by dialing (800) 642-1687 with conference ID 34956220. The international replay number is (706) 645-9291, with above conference ID. A replay and transcript also will be available by accessing the  of the company's Web site.
Investors Section
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We use ongoing net income and ongoing diluted EPS, which are non-GAAP financial measures as they represent net income (controlling interests) and diluted EPS, adjusted for special items and discontinued operations, as measures to evaluate operations of the company. Special items represent certain charges and credits which we believe will not be recurring on a regular basis, and discontinued operations do not represent our ongoing core business. We believe that the presentation of ongoing net income and ongoing diluted EPS provide useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare our ongoing performance across periods. Ongoing diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses.
The primary performance measure used by us to evaluate segment performance is segment EBIT from continuing operations, which at the segment level represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating) before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of non-controlling interests related to those profits. We consider segment EBIT from continuing operations, which is the GAAP measure used to report segment results, to be a good indicator of each segment's operating performance as it represents the results of our ownership interests in operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures.
We also use ongoing segment and Other EBIT as a measure of performance. Ongoing segment and Other EBIT is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents reported segment and Other EBIT adjusted for special items. We believe that the presentation of ongoing segment and Other EBIT provide useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare a segment's or Other's ongoing performance across periods. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for ongoing segment or Other EBIT is reported segment or Other EBIT, which represents EBIT from continuing operations, including any special items.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements represent our intentions, plans, expectations, assumptions and beliefs about future events. One can typically identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words such as: may, will, could, project, believe, expect, estimate, continue, potential, plan, forecast and other similar words. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside our control and could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. Those factors include: the implementation of state, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, have an effect on rate structure, and affect the speed at and degree to which competition enters the natural gas industries; the outcome of litigation and regulatory investigations, proceedings or inquiries; the effect of weather and other natural phenomena, including the economic, operational and other effects of hurricanes and storms; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including our credit ratings and general economic conditions; the levels of supply and demand for natural gas in our areas of operation; the results of financing efforts, including the ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including credit ratings and general market and economic conditions; increases in the cost of goods and services required to complete capital projects; declines in the market prices of equity and debt securities and resulting funding requirements for defined benefit pension plans; the effects of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; the extent of success in connecting natural gas supplies to gathering, processing and transmission systems and in connecting to expanding gas markets; our ability to identify opportunities for our business units and the timing and success of efforts to develop pipeline, storage, gathering, processing and other infrastructure projects; and our ability to successfully complete and integrate future acquisitions. These factors, as well as additional factors that could affect our forward-looking statements, are described under the headings "Risk Factors" and "Forward-Looking
Statements" in our 2008 Form 10-K, filed on February 27, 2009, and in our other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which are available via the SEC's Web site at www.sec.gov. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than we have described. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE: SE), a company, is one of North America's premier natural gas infrastructure companies serving three key links in the natural gas value chain: gathering and processing, transmission and storage, and distribution. For nearly a century, Spectra Energy and its predecessor companies have developed critically important pipelines and related infrastructure connecting natural gas supply sources to premium markets. Based in Houston, Texas, the company operates in the United States and Canada approximately 19,100 miles of transmission pipeline, more than 285 billion cubic feet of storage, as well as natural gas gathering and processing, natural gas liquids operations and local distribution assets. The company also has a 50 percent ownership in DCP Midstream, one of the largest natural gas gatherers and processors in the United States. Spectra Energy was recently ranked by as the world's "most admired" pipeline company. For more information, visit .
FORTUNE 500
FORTUNE
www.spectraenergy.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  A - Net results from Nevis and Brazeau River gathering and processing facilities in Western Canada.
  Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing) - in millions
 
 
A - Bankruptcy settlement of a customer's transportation contract.
B - Net results from Nevis and Brazeau River gathering and processing facilities in Western Canada.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing) - in millions
 


