FILE:SE/SE-8K-20110708165233.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On July 7, 2011, Joseph Alvarado was appointed to the Board of Directors of Spectra Energy Corp (the "Company") to fill a new director position. Mr. Alvarado will serve on the Finance and Risk Management Committee of the Company's Board of Directors.
Mr. Alvarado currently serves as President and Chief Operating Officer of Commercial Metals Company ("CMC"). He will assume the role of President and Chief Executive Officer of CMC on September 1, 2011. Mr. Alvarado joined CMC as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in April 2010 and was promoted to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer in April 2011. He was employed as President and Chief Operating Officer at Lone Star Technologies, Inc. from 2004 to 2007. In 2007, United States Steel Corporation ("U.S. Steel") acquired Lone Star Technologies, Inc. and named Mr. Alvarado President, U.S. Steel Tubular Products, Inc., a division of U.S. Steel.
There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Alvarado and any other persons or entities pursuant to which Mr. Alvarado was appointed as a director. As a non-employee director, Mr. Alvarado will receive compensation in accordance with the Company's policies for compensating outside directors.
On July 8, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Alvarado to its Board of Directors. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 8, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE: SE) today announced Joseph Alvarado, currently president and chief operating officer, Commercial Metals Company, was appointed to its board of directors, effective immediately.
HOUSTON
Alvarado, 58, who will assume the role of president and chief executive officer, Commercial Metals Company, on September 1, 2011, has 35 years of relevant business and manufacturing industry experience, most notably steel manufacturing. Alvarado is the former president of U.S. Tubular Products, Inc., a division of U.S. Steel, and also was president of Lone Star Technologies, prior to its acquisition by U.S. Steel. He has held various executive-level positions in operations, sales and marketing, and finance with Ispat North America (now ArcelorMittal), Birmingham Steel and Inland Steel.
Alvarado holds a master's degree in business administration from Cornell University's Johnson School and a bachelor's degree from the University of Notre Dame.
"Joe brings a wealth of business knowledge and industry experience to this role," said Bill Esrey, chairman of the board, Spectra Energy Corp. "I am confident his wide-ranging expertise and keen insights will be valuable assets that will strengthen the mix of skills of our board."
Spectra Energy Corp (NYSE: SE), a company, is one of North America's premier natural gas infrastructure companies serving three key links in the natural gas value chain: gathering and processing, transmission and storage, and distribution. For nearly a century, Spectra Energy and its predecessor companies have developed critically important pipelines and related infrastructure connecting natural gas supply sources to premium markets.
FORTUNE 500
Based in Houston, Texas, the company operates in the United States and Canada approximately 19,100 miles of transmission pipeline, more than 305 billion cubic feet of storage, as well as natural gas gathering and processing, natural gas liquids operations and local distribution assets. The company also has a 50 percent ownership in DCP Midstream, one of the largest natural gas gatherers and processors in the United States. Spectra Energy is a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability World and North America Indexes and the U.S. S&P 500 Carbon Disclosure Project's Leadership Index for both Carbon Performance and Disclosure. For more information, visit www.spectraenergy.com.


