FILE:SE/SE-8K-20110422164707.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Approval of Spectra Energy Corp 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated
At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "Annual Meeting") of Spectra Energy Corp (the "Company") held on April 19, 2011, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment and restatement of the Spectra Energy Corp 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The Board of Directors of the Company had previously adopted and approved the amended and restated Plan on February 22, 2011, subject to shareholder approval.
The amendment and restatement includes: (1) increasing the shares authorized for issuance under the Plan by 10,000,000 shares, (2) amending certain share counting provisions of the Plan, (3) extending the term of the Plan by 10 years from the date of shareholder approval of the amended and restated Plan and (4) making certain other administrative changes. In addition, the shareholder approval was also a re-approval of the Plan for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of the Plan, as amended and restated, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Approval of Spectra Energy Corp Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated
At the Annual Meeting, the Company's shareholders also re-approved the Spectra Energy Corp Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan (the "STIP"), as amended and restated, for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code. The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of the STIP, as amended and restated, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
As described in Item 5.02 above, the Annual Meeting was held in Houston, Texas on April 19, 2011. The following matters were voted upon with the final results indicated below.
At Annual Meeting, the Company's shareholders elected William T. Esrey, Gregory L. Ebel, Austin A. Adams, Paul M. Anderson, Pamela L. Carter, F. Anthony Comper, Peter B. Hamilton, Dennis R. Hendrix, Michael McShane, Joseph H. Netherland and Michael E. J. Phelps to serve as directors until the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders. Below is a tabulation of votes with respect to each nominee for director at the Annual Meeting. There were 113,343,605 broker non-votes in the election of directors.
 
In addition, the Company's shareholders ratified the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP to act as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2011. Below is a tabulation of votes with respect to such ratification. There were no broker non-votes with respect to this proposal.
 
As described in Item 5.02 above, the Company's shareholders approved the Spectra Energy Corp 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated. Below is a tabulation with respect to this proposal. There were 113,343,605 broker non-votes with respect to this proposal.
 
As described in Item 5.02 above, the Company's shareholders approved the Spectra Energy Corp Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated. Below is a tabulation with respect to this proposal. There were 113,343,605 broker non-votes with respect to this proposal.
 
The Company's shareholders approved the advisory vote on executive compensation. Below is a tabulation with respect to this proposal. There were 113,343,605 broker non-votes with respect to this proposal.
 
The Company's shareholders indicated their preference, on an advisory basis, that the advisory vote on executive compensation be held annually. In light of the voting results, the Company's Board of Directors has decided to implement an annual advisory vote on executive compensation. Below is a tabulation with respect to this proposal. There were 113,343,605 broker non-votes with respect to this proposal.
 
The Company's shareholders did not approve a shareholder proposal for a director election majority vote standard. Below is a tabulation of votes with respect this proposal. There were 113,343,605 broker non-votes with respect to this proposal.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 22, 2011
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
The purpose of the amended and restated Spectra Energy Corp 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan is to promote the interests of the Corporation and its shareholders by strengthening the Corporation's ability to attract, motivate and retain key employees and directors of the Corporation upon whose judgment, initiative and efforts the financial success and growth of the business of the Corporation largely depend, and to provide an additional incentive for key employees and directors through stock ownership and other rights that promote and recognize the financial success and growth of the Corporation. In addition, the Spectra Energy Corp 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan permitted the issuance of long-term incentive awards in partial substitution of long-term incentive awards that covered shares of the common stock of Duke Energy Corporation immediately prior to the spin-off of Spectra Energy Corp by Duke Energy Corporation. The Plan was initially adopted and became effective immediately before the consummation of the separation transaction pursuant to which the Corporation became a separate publicly-held corporation for the first time, and was subsequently amended effective January 1, 2008, December 31, 2008 and January 1, 2009.
 
Wherever the following capitalized terms are used in this Plan they shall have the meanings specified below:
(a) "Award" means an award of an Option, Restricted Stock, Stock Appreciation Right, Performance Award, Phantom Stock, Stock Bonus or Dividend Equivalent granted under the Plan.
(b) "Award Agreement" means an agreement entered into between the Corporation and a Participant setting forth the terms and conditions of an Award granted to a Participant.
(c) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
(d) "Change in Control" shall have the meaning specified in Section 13 hereof.
(e) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(f) "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board, or such other committee or subcommittee of the Board or group of individuals appointed by the Board to administer the Plan from time to time.
(g) "Common Stock" means the common stock of the Corporation, or any security into which such Common Stock may be changed by reason of any transaction or event of the type described in Section 3.2.
(h) "Conversion Award" shall have the meaning specified in Section 15.15 hereof.
(i) "Corporation" means Spectra Energy Corp, a Delaware corporation.
(j) "Date of Grant" means the date on which an Award under the Plan is made by the Committee (which date shall not be earlier than the date on which the Committee takes action with respect thereto), or such later date as the Committee may specify that the Award becomes effective.
(k) "Dividend Equivalent" means an Award under Section 12 hereof entitling the Participant to receive payments with respect to dividends declared on the Common Stock.
(l) "Duke Energy" means Duke Energy Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
 
(m) "Duke Energy Award" shall have the meaning specified in Section 15.15 hereof.
(n) "Effective Date" means the Effective Date of this amended and restated Plan, as defined in Section 16.1 hereof.
(o) "Eligible Person" means any person who is an Employee, an Independent Contractor or an Independent Director.
(p) "Employee" means any person who is a key employee of the Corporation or any Subsidiary or who has agreed to serve in such capacity within 90 days after the Date of Grant; provided, however, that with respect to Incentive Stock Options, "Employee" means any person who is considered an employee of the Corporation or any Subsidiary for purposes of Treasury Regulation Section 1.421-1(h).
(q) "Fair Market Value" of a share of Common Stock as of a given date means the closing sales price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange as reflected on the composite index on the date as of which Fair Market Value is to be determined or, in the absence of any reported sales of Common Stock on such date, on the first preceding date on which any such sale shall have been reported. If Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange on the date as of which Fair Market Value is to be determined, the Committee shall determine in good faith the Fair Market Value in whatever manner it considers appropriate (but in any event such amount shall not be less than fair market value within the meaning of section 409A of the Code).
(r) "Incentive Stock Option" means an option to purchase Common Stock that is intended to qualify as an incentive stock option under section 422 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.
(s) "Independent Contractor" means a person who provides services to the Corporation or any Subsidiary, other than as an Employee or Independent Director.
(t) "Independent Director" means a member of the Board who is not an employee of the Corporation or any Subsidiary.
(u) "Nonqualified Stock Option" means an option to purchase Common Stock that is not an Incentive Stock Option.
(v) "Option" means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option granted under Section 6 hereof.
(w) "Participant" means any Eligible Person who holds an outstanding Award under the Plan.
(x) "Performance Award" means an Award made under Section 9 hereof entitling a Participant to a payment based on the Fair Market Value of Common Stock (a "Performance Share") or based on specified dollar units (a "Performance Unit") at the end of a performance period if certain conditions established by the Committee are satisfied.
(y) "Phantom Stock" means an Award under Section 10 hereof entitling a Participant to a payment at the end of a vesting period of a unit value based on the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock.
(z) "Plan" means this amended and restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan as set forth herein, and as it may be further amended from time to time.
(aa) "Restricted Stock" means an Award under Section 8 hereof entitling a Participant to shares of Common Stock that are nontransferable and subject to forfeiture until specific conditions established by the Committee are satisfied.
(bb) "Section 162(m)" means section 162(m) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.
(cc) "Section 162(m) Participant" means any Participant who, in the sole judgment of the Committee, could be treated as a "covered employee" under Section 162(m) at the time income may be recognized by such Participant in connection with an Award that is intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m).
 
(dd) "Separation Date" means the date upon which the Corporation became publicly traded in connection with its separation from Duke Energy.
(ee) "Separation From Service" means a Participants' separation from service within the meaning of section 409A of the Code.
(ff) "Specified Employee" means a Participant who is a "specified employee" (as defined in Code Section 409A(2)(B)(i)) of the Corporation (or an entity which is considered to be a single employer with the Corporation under Code Section 414(b) or 414(c)), as determined under Code Section 409A at any time during the twelve (12) month period ending on December 31, but only if the Corporation has any stock that is publicly traded on an established securities market or otherwise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant will be deemed to be a Specified Employee for the period of April 1 through March 31 following such December 31, except as otherwise required under Code Section 409A.
(gg) "Stock Appreciation Right" or "SAR" means an Award under Section 7 hereof entitling a Participant to receive an amount, representing the difference between the base price per share of the right and the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise.
(hh) "Stock Bonus" means an Award under Section 11 hereof entitling a Participant to receive an unrestricted share of Common Stock.
(ii) "Subsidiary" means an entity that is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, or any other affiliate of the Corporation that is so designated, from time to time, by the Committee, provided, however, that with respect to Incentive Stock Options, the term "Subsidiary" shall not include any entity that does not qualify within the meaning of section 424(f) of the Code as a "subsidiary corporation" with respect to the Corporation.
 
3.1. . Subject to the following provisions of this Section 3, the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued pursuant to all Awards under the Plan is 40,000,000 shares of Common Stock plus the number of shares of Common Stock that are covered by Conversion Awards. Shares of Common Stock that are issued in connection with Conversion Awards shall not count against the 40,000,000 share limit described above. Shares of Common Stock that are issued in settlement of Awards, other than Options and SARs, that were granted prior to the Effective Date shall be counted against the 40,000,000 share limit described above as four shares of Common Stock for every one share of Common Stock that is issued in connection with such Award. Shares of Common Stock that are issued in connection with Awards granted on and after the Effective Date will be counted against the 40,000,000 share limit described above as one share of Common Stock for every one share of Common Stock that is issued in connection with all Awards. Other than Conversion Awards, no more than 40,000,000 shares of Common Stock may be issued pursuant to Incentive Stock Options. The shares of Common Stock to be delivered under the Plan will be made available from authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock or treasury stock.
Number of Shares
Shares covered by an Award shall only be counted as used to the extent they are actually issued. Any Shares related to Awards (other than, in each case, Conversion Awards) that terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation or otherwise without the issuance of such Shares, are settled in cash in lieu of Shares, or are exchanged with the Committee's permission, prior to the issuance of Shares, for Awards not involving Shares, shall be available again for grant under the Plan. With respect to Awards that are settled on or after the Effective Date, including without limitation Awards that were granted prior to and remain outstanding as of the Effective Date, if the exercise price of an Option or the tax withholding requirements with respect to any Award granted under the Plan are satisfied through the withholding by the Corporation of Shares otherwise then deliverable in respect of such Award or actual or constructive transfer to the Corporation of Shares already owned, a number of Shares equal to such withheld or transferred Shares will again be available for issuance or transfer under the Plan, or if an SAR is exercised, only the number of Shares issued, net of the Shares tendered, if any, will be
 
deemed delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of Shares available for delivery under the Plan. Solely with respect to Awards that were granted and exercised or settled, as applicable, prior to the Effective Date, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, (A) Common Stock tendered in payment of the exercise price of an Option prior to the Effective Date shall not be added to the aggregate Plan limit described above; (B) Common Stock withheld by the Corporation to satisfy a tax withholding obligation prior to the Effective Date shall not be added to the aggregate Plan limit described above; (C) Common Stock that is repurchased by the Corporation with Option proceeds prior to the Effective Date shall not be added to the aggregate Plan limit described above and (D) all Common Stock covered by an SAR, to the extent that it is exercised and settled in Common Stock prior to the Effective Date, and whether or not Common Stock is actually issued or transferred to the Participant upon exercise of the SAR, shall be considered issued or transferred pursuant to the Plan.
To the extent permitted by applicable law or any exchange rule, Shares issued in assumption of, or in substitution for, any outstanding awards of any entity acquired in any form of combination by the Corporation or any affiliate shall not be counted against Shares available for grant pursuant to the Plan.
3.2. . If there shall occur any merger, consolidation, liquidation, issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, spin-off, split-off, stock split, reverse stock split or other distribution with respect to the shares of Common Stock, or any similar corporate transaction or event in respect of the Common Stock, then the Committee shall, in the manner and to the extent that it deems appropriate and equitable to the Participants and consistent with the terms of this Plan, cause a proportionate adjustment to be made in (i) the maximum numbers and kind of shares provided in Section 3.1 hereof, (ii) the maximum numbers and kind of shares set forth in Sections 6.1, 7.1, 8.2 and 9.4 hereof, (iii) the number and kind of shares of Common Stock, share units, or other rights subject to the then-outstanding Awards, (iv) the price for each share or unit or other right subject to then outstanding Awards without change in the aggregate purchase price or value as to which such Awards remain exercisable or subject to restrictions, (v) the performance targets or goals appropriate to any outstanding Performance Awards (subject to such limitations as appropriate for Awards intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m)) or (vi) any other terms of an Award that are affected by the event. Moreover, in the event of any such transaction or event, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in substitution for any or all outstanding awards under the Plan such alternative consideration (including cash) as it, in good faith, may determine to be equitable under the circumstances and may require in connection therewith the surrender of all awards so replaced. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any such adjustments shall be made in a manner consistent with the requirements of section 409A of the Code.
Adjustments
 
4.1. . Except as provided in Section 4.4 hereof, the Plan will be administered by the Committee, which unless otherwise determined by the Board will consist solely of two or more persons who satisfy the requirements for a "nonemployee director" under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and/or the requirements for an "outside director" under Section 162(m). The Committee may exercise such powers and authority as may be necessary or appropriate for the Committee to carry out its functions as described in the Plan. No member of the Committee will be liable for any action or determination made in good faith by the Committee with respect to the Plan or any Award under it.
Committee Members
4.2. . Subject to the express limitations of the Plan, the Committee has authority in its discretion to determine the Eligible Persons to whom, and the time or times at which, Awards may be granted, the number of shares, units or other rights subject to each Award, the exercise, base or purchase price of an Award (if any), the time or times at which an Award will become vested, exercisable or payable, the performance criteria, performance goals and other conditions of an Award, and the duration of the Award. The Committee also has discretionary authority to interpret the Plan, to make all factual determinations under the Plan, and to determine the terms and provisions of the respective Award Agreements and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for Plan administration. The Committee has authority to prescribe, amend, and rescind
Discretionary Authority
 
rules and regulations relating to the Plan. All interpretations, determinations, and actions by the Committee will be final, conclusive, and binding upon all parties.
4.3. . The Committee shall have the authority to effect, at any time and from time to time, with the consent of the affected Participants, (i) the cancellation of any or all outstanding Awards and the grant in substitution therefor of new Awards covering the same or different numbers of shares of Common Stock and having an exercise or base price which may be the same as or different than the exercise or base price of the canceled Awards or (ii) the amendment of the terms of any and all outstanding Awards; provided, however, that the Committee shall not have the authority to reduce the exercise or base price of an Award by amendment or cancellation and substitution of an existing Award without the approval of the Corporation's shareholders. The Committee may in its discretion accelerate the vesting or exercisability of an Award at any time or on the basis of any specified event.
Changes to Awards
4.4. . The Committee shall have the right, from time to time, to delegate to one or more officers or directors of the Corporation the authority of the Committee to grant and determine the terms and conditions of Awards under the Plan, subject to such limitations as the Committee shall determine; provided, however, that no such authority may be delegated with respect to Awards made to any member of the Board or any Section 162(m) Participant.
Delegation of Authority
4.5. . An Award to an Independent Director under the Plan shall be approved by the Board. With respect to Awards to Independent Directors, all rights, powers and authorities vested in the Committee under the Plan shall instead be exercised by the Board, and all provisions of the Plan relating to the Committee shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the foregoing by treating any such reference as a reference to the Board for such purpose.
Awards to Independent Directors
 
All Eligible Persons are eligible to be designated by the Committee to receive an Award under the Plan. The Committee has authority, in its sole discretion, to determine and designate from time to time those Eligible Persons who are to be granted Awards, the types of Awards to be granted and the number of shares or units subject to the Awards that are granted under the Plan. Each Award will be evidenced by an Award Agreement as described in Section 14 hereof between the Corporation and the Participant that shall include the terms and conditions consistent with the Plan as the Committee may determine.
 
6.1. . An Option may be granted to any Eligible Person selected by the Committee; provided, however, that only Employees shall be eligible for Awards of Incentive Stock Options. Each Option shall be designated, at the discretion of the Committee, as an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option. Other than Conversion Awards, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be granted under Options to any one Participant during any one calendar year shall be limited to 3,000,000 shares (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3.2 hereof).
Grant of Option
6.2. . The exercise price of the Option shall be determined by the Committee; provided, however, that the exercise price per share of an Option shall not be less than 100 percent of the Fair Market Value per share of the Common Stock on the Date of Grant.
Exercise Price
6.3. . The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall prescribe in the Award Agreement the time or times at which, or the conditions upon which, an Option or portion thereof shall become vested and exercisable, and may accelerate the exercisability of any Option at any time. An Option may become vested and exercisable upon a Participant's retirement, death, disability, Change in Control or other event, to the extent provided in an Award Agreement. The period during which a vested Option may be exercised shall be ten years
Vesting; Term of Option
 
from the Date of Grant, unless a shorter exercise period is specified by the Committee in an Award Agreement, and subject to such limitations as may apply under an Award Agreement relating to the termination of a Participant's employment or other service with the Corporation or any Subsidiary.
6.4. . Subject to such terms and conditions as shall be specified in an Award Agreement, an Option may be exercised in whole or in part at any time during the term thereof by notice to the Corporation together with payment of the aggregate exercise price therefor. Payment of the exercise price shall be made (i) in cash or by cash equivalent, (ii) at the discretion of the Committee, in shares of Common Stock acceptable to the Committee, valued at the Fair Market Value of such shares on the date of exercise, (iii) at the discretion of the Committee, by a delivery of a notice that the Participant has placed a market sell order (or similar instruction) with a broker with respect to shares of Common Stock then issuable upon exercise of the Option, and that the broker has been directed to pay a sufficient portion of the net proceeds of the sale to the Corporation in satisfaction of the Option exercise price (conditioned upon the payment of such net proceeds), (iv) at the discretion of the Committee, by withholding from delivery shares of Common Stock for which the Option is otherwise exercised, (v) at the discretion of the Committee, by a combination of the methods described above or (vi) by such other method as may be approved by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement. In addition to and at the time of payment of the exercise price, the Participant shall pay to the Corporation the full amount of any and all applicable income tax and employment tax amounts required to be withheld in connection with such exercise, payable under one or more of the methods described above for the payment of the exercise price of the Options or as otherwise may be approved by the Committee.
Option Exercise; Withholding
6.5. . Solely to the extent permitted by the Committee in an Award Agreement and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall specify, a Nonqualified Stock Option (but not an Incentive Stock Option) may be transferred to members of the Participant's immediate family (as determined by the Committee) or to trusts, partnerships or corporations whose beneficiaries, members or owners are members of the Participant's immediate family, and/or to such other persons or entities as may be approved by the Committee in advance and set forth in an Award Agreement, in each case subject to the condition that the Committee be satisfied that such transfer is being made for estate or tax planning purposes or for gratuitous or donative purposes, without consideration (other than nominal consideration) being received therefor. Except to the extent permitted by the Committee in accordance with the foregoing, an Option shall be nontransferable otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of a Participant only by such Participant.
Limited Transferability
6.6. .
Additional Rules for Incentive Stock Options
(a) . No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted to a Participant as a result of which the aggregate fair market value (determined as of the Date of Grant) of the stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time in any calendar year under the Plan, and any other stock option plans of the Corporation, any Subsidiary or any parent corporation, would exceed $100,000 (or such other amount provided under section 422(d) of the Code), determined in accordance with section 422(d) of the Code and Treasury Regulations thereunder. This limitation shall be applied by taking options into account in the order in which granted.
Annual Limits
(b) . An Award Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option may provide that such Option may be exercised not later than 3 months following termination of employment of the Participant with the Corporation and all Subsidiaries, subject to special rules relating to death and disability, as and to the extent determined by the Committee to be appropriate with regard to the requirements of section 422 of the Code and Treasury Regulations thereunder.
Termination of Employment
(c) . Any Incentive Stock Option granted hereunder shall contain such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of this Plan, as are deemed necessary or desirable by the Committee, which terms, together with the terms of this Plan, shall be intended and interpreted to cause such Incentive Stock Option to qualify as an "incentive stock option" under section 422 of the Code and Treasury Regulations thereunder. Such terms shall include,
Other Terms and Conditions; Nontransferability
 
if applicable, limitations on Incentive Stock Options granted to ten-percent owners of the Corporation. An Award Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option may provide that such Option shall be treated as a Nonqualified Stock Option to the extent that certain requirements applicable to "incentive stock options" under the Code shall not be satisfied. An Incentive Stock Option shall by its terms be nontransferable otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of a Participant only by such Participant.
(d) . If shares of Common Stock acquired by exercise of an Incentive Stock Option are disposed of within two years following the Date of Grant or one year following the transfer of such shares to the Participant upon exercise, the Participant shall, promptly following such disposition, notify the Corporation in writing of the date and terms of such disposition and provide such other information regarding the disposition as the Committee may reasonably require.
Disqualifying Dispositions
 
7.1. . A Stock Appreciation Right granted to a Participant is an Award in the form of a right to receive, upon surrender of the right, but without other payment, an amount based on appreciation in the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock over a base price established for the Award, exercisable at such time or times and upon conditions as may be approved by the Committee. Other than Conversion Awards, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be subject to SARs granted to any one Participant during any one calendar year shall be limited to 3,000,000 shares (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3.2 hereof).
Grant of SARs
7.2. . A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted in connection with an Option, either at the time of grant or at any time thereafter during the term of the Option. An SAR granted in connection with an Option will entitle the holder, upon exercise, to surrender such Option or any portion thereof to the extent unexercised, with respect to the number of shares as to which such SAR is exercised, and to receive payment of an amount computed as described in Section 7.4 hereof. Such Option will, to the extent and when surrendered, cease to be exercisable. An SAR granted in connection with an Option hereunder will have a base price per share equal to the per share exercise price of the Option, will be exercisable at such time or times, and only to the extent, that a related Option is exercisable, and will expire no later than the related Option expires.
Tandem SARs
7.3. . A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted without relationship to an Option and, in such case, will be exercisable as determined by the Committee, but in no event after 10 years from the Date of Grant. The base price of an SAR granted without relationship to an Option shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion; provided, however, that the base price per share of a freestanding SAR shall not be less than 100 percent of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Date of Grant.
Freestanding SARs
7.4. . An SAR will entitle the holder, upon exercise of the SAR, to receive payment of an amount determined by multiplying: (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise of the SAR over the base price of such SAR, by (ii) the number of shares as to which such SAR will have been exercised. Payment of the amount determined under the previous sentence may be made, in the discretion of the Committee as set forth in the Award Agreement, in a lump sum (i) in cash, (ii) in shares of Common Stock valued at their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise, or (iii) in a combination of cash and shares of Common Stock, and paid not later than sixty (60) days following the date of exercise of the SAR.
Payment of SARs
 
8.1. . An Award of Restricted Stock to a Participant represents shares of Common Stock that are issued subject to such restrictions on transfer and other incidents of ownership and such forfeiture conditions as the Committee may determine. The Committee may, in connection with an Award of Restricted Stock, require the payment of a specified purchase price. The Committee may grant Awards of Restricted Stock that are intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m), as well as Awards of Restricted Stock that are not intended to so qualify.
Grants of Restricted Stock
 
8.2. . The restrictions imposed on an Award of Restricted Stock shall lapse in accordance with the vesting requirements specified by the Committee in the Award Agreement. Such vesting requirements may be based on the continued employment or service of the Participant with the Corporation or its Subsidiaries for a specified time period or periods, provided that any such restriction shall not be scheduled to lapse in its entirety earlier than the first anniversary of the Date of Grant. Such vesting requirements may also be based on the attainment of specified business goals or measures established by the Committee in its sole discretion. In the case of any Award of Restricted Stock that is intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m), the vesting requirements shall be limited to the performance criteria identified in Section 9.3 below, and the terms of the Award shall otherwise comply with the Section 162(m) requirements described in Section 9.4 hereof. Other than Conversion Awards, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be subject to an Award of Restricted Stock granted to any one Participant during any one calendar year shall be separately limited to 600,000 shares (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3.2 hereof).
Vesting Requirements
8.3. . Shares of Restricted Stock may not be transferred, assigned or subject to any encumbrance, pledge or charge until all applicable restrictions are removed or expire or unless otherwise allowed by the Committee. The Committee may require the Participant to enter into an escrow agreement providing that the certificates representing Restricted Stock granted or sold pursuant to the Plan will remain in the physical custody of an escrow holder until all restrictions are removed or expire. Failure to satisfy any applicable restrictions shall result in the subject shares of Restricted Stock being forfeited and returned to the Corporation, with any purchase price paid by the Participant to be refunded, unless otherwise provided by the Committee. The Committee may require that certificates representing Restricted Stock granted under the Plan bear a legend making appropriate reference to the restrictions imposed.
Restrictions
8.4. . Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section 8 and the applicable Award Agreement, the Participant will have all rights of a shareholder with respect to shares of Restricted Stock granted to him, including the right to vote the shares and receive all dividends and other distributions paid or made with respect thereto, unless the Committee determines otherwise at the time the Restricted Stock is granted, as set forth in the Award Agreement.
Rights as Shareholder
8.5. . The Committee may provide in an Award Agreement that the Award of Restricted Stock is conditioned upon the Participant refraining from making an election with respect to the Award under section 83(b) of the Code. Irrespective of whether an Award is so conditioned, if a Participant makes an election pursuant to section 83(b) of the Code with respect to an Award of Restricted Stock, the Participant shall be required to promptly file a copy of such election with the Corporation.
Section 83(b) Election
 
9.1. . The Committee may grant Performance Awards under the Plan, which shall be represented by units denominated on the Date of Grant either in shares of Common Stock (Performance Shares) or in specified dollar amounts (Performance Units). The Committee may grant Performance Awards that are intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m), as well as Performance Awards that are not intended to so qualify. At the time a Performance Award is granted, the Committee shall determine, in its sole discretion, one or more performance periods and performance goals to be achieved during the applicable performance periods, as well as such other restrictions and conditions as the Committee deems appropriate. In the case of Performance Units, the Committee shall also determine a target unit value or a range of unit values for each Award. No performance period shall exceed ten years from the Date of Grant. The performance goals applicable to a Performance Award grant may be subject to such later revisions as the Committee shall deem appropriate to reflect significant unforeseen events such as changes in law, accounting practices or unusual or nonrecurring items or occurrences or to satisfy regulatory requirements. Any such adjustments shall be subject to such limitations as the Committee deems appropriate in the case of a Performance Award granted to a Section 162(m) Participant that is intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m).
Grant of Performance Awards
 
9.2. . At the end of the performance period, the Committee shall determine the extent to which performance goals have been attained or a degree of achievement between minimum and maximum levels in order to establish the level of payment to be made, if any, and shall determine if payment is to be made in the form of cash or shares of Common Stock (valued at their Fair Market Value at the time of payment) or a combination of cash and shares of Common Stock. Payment of Performance Awards shall be made not later than sixty (60) days following the end of the performance period, unless the applicable Performance Award provides otherwise.
Payment of Performance Awards
9.3. . The performance criteria upon which the payment or vesting of a Performance Award intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m) may be based shall be limited to the following business measures, which may be applied with respect to the Corporation, any Subsidiary or any business unit, or, if applicable, any Participant, and which may be measured on an absolute or relative to a peer-group or other market measure basis: total shareholder return; stock price increase; return on equity; return on capital; earnings per share; EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes); EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization); ongoing earnings; cash flow (including operating cash flow, free cash flow, discounted cash flow return on investment, and cash flow in excess of costs of capital); EVA (economic value added); economic profit (net operating profit after tax, less a cost of capital charge); SVA (shareholder value added); revenues; net income; operating income; pre-tax profit margin; performance against business plan; customer service; corporate governance quotient or rating; market share; employee satisfaction; safety; employee engagement; supplier diversity; workforce diversity; operating margins; credit rating; dividend payments; expenses; retained earnings; completion of acquisitions, divestitures and corporate restructurings; and individual goals based on objective business criteria underlying the goals listed above and which pertain to individual effort as to achievement of those goals or to one or more business criteria in the areas of litigation, human resources, information services, production, inventory, support services, site development, plant development, building development, facility development, government relations, product market share or management. At the time the Committee determines the terms of the Performance Target(s), the Committee may also specify any exclusion(s) for charges related to any event(s) or occurrence(s) which the Committee determines should appropriately be excluded, as applicable, for purposes of measuring performance against the applicable Performance Targets provided that such excluded items are objectively determinable by reference to the Corporation's financial statements, notes to the Corporation's financial statements and/or management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, appearing in the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the applicable year. If the Committee determines that a change in the business, operations, corporate structure or capital structure of the Corporation, or the manner in which it conducts its business, or other events or circumstances, render previously established Performance Targets unsuitable, the Committee may in its discretion modify such Performance Targets, in whole or in part, as the Committee deems appropriate and equitable; provided that, unless the Committee determines otherwise, no such action shall be taken if and to the extent it would result in the loss of an otherwise available exemption of the Award under Section 162(m). In the case of Performance Awards that are not intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m), the Committee shall designate performance criteria from among the foregoing or such other business criteria as it shall determine in its sole discretion.
Performance Criteria
9.4. . In the case of a Performance Award granted to a Section 162(m) Participant that is intended to comply with the requirements for exemption under Section 162(m), the Committee shall make all determinations necessary to establish a Performance Award within 90 days of the beginning of the performance period (or such other time period required under Section 162(m)), including, without limitation, the designation of the Section 162(m) Participants to whom Performance Awards are made, the performance criteria or criterion applicable to the Award and the performance goals that relate to such criteria, and the dollar amounts or number of shares of Common Stock payable upon achieving the applicable performance goals. As and to the extent required by Section 162(m), the terms of a Performance Award granted to a Section 162(m) Participant must state, in terms of an objective formula or standard, the method of computing the amount of compensation payable to the Section 162(m) Participant, and must preclude discretion to increase the amount of compensation payable that would otherwise be due under the terms of the Award, and, prior to the payment of such compensation, the Committee shall have certified in writing that the applicable performance goal has been
Section 162(m) Requirements
 
satisfied. Other than Conversion Awards, the maximum amount of compensation that may be payable under Performance Units granted to any one Participant during any one calendar year shall not exceed $7,500,000. Other than Conversion Awards, the maximum number of Common Stock units that may be subject to a Performance Share Award granted to any one Participant during any one calendar year shall be 750,000 share units (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3.2 hereof).
 
10.1. . Phantom Stock is an Award to a Participant of a number of hypothetical share units with respect to shares of Common Stock, with an initial value based on the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Date of Grant. Phantom Stock shall be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall determine. On the Date of Grant, the Committee shall determine, in its sole discretion, the installment or other vesting period of the Phantom Stock and the maximum value of the Phantom Stock, if any. No vesting period shall exceed 10 years from the Date of Grant.
Grant of Phantom Stock
10.2. . Upon the vesting date or dates applicable to Phantom Stock granted to a Participant, an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock upon such vesting dates (subject to any applicable maximum value) shall be paid with respect to such Phantom Stock unit granted to the Participant. Payment may be made, at the discretion of the Committee, in cash or in shares of Common Stock valued at their Fair Market Value on the applicable vesting dates, or in a combination thereof. Payment of Phantom Stock shall be made not later than sixty (60) days following the vesting date, unless the applicable Phantom Stock Award provides otherwise.
Payment of Phantom Stock
 
11.1. . An Award of a Stock Bonus to a Participant represents a specified number of shares of Common Stock that are issued without restrictions on transfer or forfeiture conditions. The Committee may, in connection with an Award of a Stock Bonus, require the payment of a specified purchase price.
Grant of Stock Bonus
11.2. . In the event that the Committee grants a Stock Bonus, a certificate for (or book entry representing) the shares of Common Stock constituting such Stock Bonus shall be issued in the name of the Participant to whom such grant was made as soon as practicable after the date on which such Stock Bonus is payable, but not later than sixty (60) days following such date.
Payment of Stock Bonus
 
12.1. . A Dividend Equivalent granted to a Participant is an Award in the form of a right to receive cash payments determined by reference to dividends declared on the Common Stock from time to time during the term of the Award, which shall not exceed 10 years from the Date of Grant. Dividend Equivalents may be granted on a stand-alone basis or in tandem with other Awards. Dividend Equivalents granted on a tandem basis shall expire at the time the underlying Award is exercised or otherwise becomes payable to the Participant, or expires or is forfeited.
Grant of Dividend Equivalents
12.2. . Dividend Equivalent Awards shall be payable in cash or in shares of Common Stock, valued at their Fair Market Value on either the date the related dividends are declared or the Dividend Equivalents are paid to a Participant, as determined by the Committee. Dividend Equivalents shall be payable to a Participant as soon as practicable following the date dividends are declared and paid with respect to Common Stock, but not later than sixty (60) days following such date, or at such later date as the Committee shall specify in the Award Agreement. Dividend Equivalents granted with respect to Options shall be payable, in accordance with the terms and in compliance with section 409A of the Code, regardless of whether the Option is exercised.
Payment of Dividend Equivalents
 
13.1. . The Committee may, in an Award Agreement or at any time thereafter, provide for the effect of a Change in Control on an Award. Such provisions may include any one or more of the following, which need not be uniform and may vary among Participants and Awards: (i) the acceleration or extension of time periods for purposes of exercising, vesting in, or realizing gain from any Award, (ii) the waiver or modification of performance or other conditions related to the payment or other rights under an Award; (iii) provision for the cash settlement of an Award for an equivalent cash value, as determined by the Committee, (iv) the assumption of any such Award by an acquirer or successor or (v) such other modification or adjustment to an Award as the Committee deems appropriate to maintain and protect the rights and interests of Participants upon or following a Change in Control.
Effect of Change in Control
13.2. . Except as otherwise provided by the Committee in an Award Agreement, for purposes hereof, a "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred upon:
Definition of Change in Control
(a) an acquisition subsequent to the Separation Date by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of thirty percent (30%) or more of either (A) the then outstanding shares of Common Stock or (B) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; excluding, however, the following: (1) any acquisition directly from the Corporation, other than an acquisition by virtue of the exercise of a conversion privilege unless the security being so converted was itself acquired directly from the Corporation, (2) any acquisition by the Corporation and (3) any acquisition by an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Corporation or any Subsidiary;
(b) during any period of two (2) consecutive years (not including any period prior to the Separation Date), individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board (and any new directors whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Corporation's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was so approved) cease for any reason (except for death, disability or voluntary retirement) to constitute a majority thereof;
(c) the consummation of a merger, consolidation, reorganization or similar corporate transaction which has been approved by the shareholders of the Corporation, whether or not the Corporation is the surviving corporation in such transaction, other than a merger, consolidation, or reorganization that would result in the voting securities of the Corporation outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Corporation (or such surviving entity) outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation, or reorganization; or
(d) the consummation of (A) the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation or (B) a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation, which has been approved by the shareholders of the Corporation;
provided that in no event shall a Change in Control be deemed to have occurred by reason of any of the events resulting from the separation transaction pursuant to which the Corporation becomes a separate publicly-held corporation for the first time.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to an Award (i) that is subject to Code Section 409A and (ii) for which a Change in Control would accelerate the timing of payment thereunder, the term "Change in Control" shall mean a change in the ownership or effective control of the Corporation, or in the ownership of a substantial
 
portion of the Corporation as defined in Code Section 409A and authoritative guidance thereunder, but only to the extent inconsistent with the above definition and as necessary to comply with Code Section 409A as determined by the Committee.
 
14.1. . Each Award under this Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement in a form approved by the Committee setting forth the number of shares of Common Stock, units or other rights (as applicable) subject to the Award, the exercise, base or purchase price (if any) of the Award, the time or times at which an Award will become vested, exercisable or payable, the duration of the Award and, in the case of Performance Awards, the applicable performance criteria and goals. The Award Agreement shall also set forth other material terms and conditions applicable to the Award as determined by the Committee consistent with the limitations of this Plan. Award Agreements evidencing Awards intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m) shall contain such terms and conditions as may be necessary to meet the applicable requirements of Section 162(m). Award Agreements evidencing Incentive Stock Options shall contain such terms and conditions as may be necessary to meet the applicable provisions of section 422 of the Code.
Form of Agreement
14.2. . The Award Agreements may include provisions describing the treatment of an Award in the event of the retirement, disability, death or Separation From Service, such as provisions relating to the vesting, exercisability, acceleration, forfeiture or cancellation of the Award in these circumstances, including any such provisions as may be appropriate for Incentive Stock Options as described in Section 6.6(b) hereof.
Termination of Service
14.3. . The Committee may specify in an Award Agreement that the Participant's rights, payments and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture or recoupment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award. Such events shall include, but shall not be limited to, Separation From Service for cause, violation of material Corporation or Subsidiary policies, breach of noncompetition, confidentiality or other restrictive covenants that may apply to the Participant, or other conduct by the Participant that is detrimental to the business or reputation of the Corporation or any Subsidiary.
Forfeiture Events
14.4. . Any obligation of the Corporation to any Participant with respect to an Award shall be based solely upon contractual obligations created by an Award Agreement. Other than Conversion Awards, no Award shall be enforceable until the Award Agreement has been signed on behalf of the Corporation (electronically or otherwise) by its authorized representative and acknowledged by the Participant (electronically or otherwise) and returned to the Corporation. By executing the Award Agreement, a Participant shall be deemed to have accepted and consented to the terms of this Plan and any action taken in good faith under this Plan by and within the discretion of the Committee, the Board or their delegates. Award Agreements covering outstanding Awards may be amended or modified by the Committee in any manner that may be permitted for the grant of Awards under the Plan, subject to the consent of the Participant to the extent provided in the Award Agreement. In accordance with such procedures as the Corporation may prescribe, a Participant may sign or otherwise execute an Award Agreement and may consent to amendments of modifications of Award Agreements covering outstanding Awards by electronic means.
Contract Rights; Amendment
 
15.1. . Except as provided in Section 6.5 hereof, Awards under the Plan shall not be assignable or transferable, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and during the lifetime of a Participant the Award shall be exercised only by such Participant or by his guardian or legal representative. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may provide in the terms of an Award Agreement that the Participant shall have the right to designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries who shall be entitled to any rights, payments or other specified benefits under an Award following the Participant's death.
No Assignment or Transfer; Beneficiaries
 
15.2. . At the discretion of the Committee, a Participant may elect in writing to defer the receipt of payment of cash or delivery of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be due to the Participant by virtue of the exercise of a right or the satisfaction of vesting or other conditions with respect to an Award; provided, however, that (i) such election will not take effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date upon which the election is made by the Participant, (ii) except in the case of payment of account of the Participant's death or disability (within the meaning of Code Section 409A), the payment with respect to which such election is made must be deferred for a period of not less than five (5) years from the date the payment would otherwise have been paid, and (iii) such election cannot be made at a time less than twelve (12) months prior to the date the payment was otherwise scheduled to be made. Any subsequent deferral election made by the Participant pursuant to this Section 15.2 must be consistent with the requirements of Code Section 409A. This Section 15.2 shall not apply to an Option or a Stock Appreciation Right issued under the Plan.
Deferrals of Payment
15.3. . A Participant shall have no rights as a holder of Common Stock with respect to any unissued securities covered by an Award until the date the Participant becomes the holder of record of those securities. Except as provided in Section 3.2 or Section 8.4 hereof, no adjustment or other provision shall be made for dividends or other shareholder rights, except to the extent that the Award Agreement provides for Dividend Equivalents, dividend payments or similar economic benefits.
Rights as Shareholder
15.4. . Nothing in the Plan, in the grant of any Award or in any Award Agreement shall confer upon any Eligible Person the right to continue in the capacity in which he is employed by or otherwise serves the Corporation or any Subsidiary.
Employment or Service
15.5. . No shares of Common Stock will be issued or transferred pursuant to an Award unless and until all then applicable requirements imposed by federal and state securities and other laws, rules and regulations and by any regulatory agencies having jurisdiction, and by any stock exchanges upon which the Common Stock may be listed, have been fully met. As a condition precedent to the issuance of shares pursuant to the grant or exercise of an Award, the Corporation may require the Participant to take any reasonable action to meet such requirements. The Committee may impose such conditions on any shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, under the requirements of any stock exchange upon which such shares of the same class are then listed, and under any blue sky or other securities laws applicable to such shares.
Securities Laws
15.6. . The Participant shall be responsible for payment of any taxes or similar charges required by law to be withheld from an Award or an amount paid in satisfaction of an Award, which shall be paid by the Participant on or prior to the payment or other event that results in taxable income in respect of an Award. The Award Agreement shall specify the manner in which the withholding obligation shall be satisfied with respect to the particular type of Award, provided that, if shares of Common Stock are withheld from delivery upon exercise of an Option or a Stock Appreciation Right, the Fair Market Value of the shares withheld shall not exceed, as of the time the withholding occurs, the minimum amount of tax for which withholding is required.
Tax Withholding
15.7. . The adoption of this Plan and any setting aside of cash amounts or shares of Common Stock by the Corporation with which to discharge its obligations hereunder shall not be deemed to create a trust or other funded arrangement. The benefits provided under this Plan shall be a general, unsecured obligation of the Corporation payable solely from the general assets of the Corporation, and neither a Participant nor the Participant's permitted transferees or estate shall have any interest in any assets of the Corporation by virtue of this Plan, except as a general unsecured creditor of the Corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall have the right to implement or set aside funds in a grantor trust subject to the claims of the Corporation's creditors to discharge its obligations under the Plan.
Unfunded Plan
15.8. . The adoption of the Plan shall not affect any other stock incentive or other compensation plans in effect for the Corporation or any Subsidiary, nor shall the Plan preclude the Corporation from establishing any other forms of stock incentive or other compensation for employees of the
Other Compensation and Benefit Plans
 
Corporation or any Subsidiary. The amount of any compensation deemed to be received by Participant pursuant to an Award shall not constitute compensation with respect to which any other employee benefits of such Participant are determined, including, without limitation, benefits under any bonus, pension, profit sharing, life insurance or salary continuation plan, except as otherwise specifically provided by the terms of such plan.
15.9. . The Plan shall be binding upon the Corporation, its successors and assigns, and the Participant, his executor, administrator and permitted transferees and beneficiaries.
Plan Binding on Successors
15.10. . Whenever used herein, nouns in the singular shall include the plural, and the masculine pronoun shall include the feminine gender. Headings of Articles and Sections hereof are inserted for convenience and reference and constitute no part of the Plan.
Construction and Interpretation
15.11. . If any provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement shall be determined to be illegal or unenforceable by any court of law in any jurisdiction, the remaining provisions hereof and thereof shall be severable and enforceable in accordance with their terms, and all provisions shall remain enforceable in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
15.12. . The validity and construction of this Plan and of the Award Agreements shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
15.13. . In order to facilitate the making of any grant or combination of grants under this Plan, the Committee may provide for such special terms for awards to Participants who are foreign nationals, who are employed by the Corporation or any Subsidiary outside of the United States of America or who provide services to the Corporation under an agreement with a foreign nation or agency, as the Committee may consider necessary or appropriate to accommodate differences in local law, tax policy or custom. Moreover, the Committee may approve such supplements to, or amendments, restatements or alternative versions of, this Plan as it may consider necessary or appropriate for such purposes without thereby affecting the terms of this Plan as in effect for any other purpose, and the Secretary or other appropriate officer of the Corporation may certify any such document as having been approved and adopted in the same manner as this Plan. No such special terms, supplements, amendments or restatements shall include any provisions that are inconsistent with the terms of this Plan as then in effect unless this Plan could have been amended to eliminate such inconsistency without further approval by the shareholders of the Corporation.
Non-U.S. Employees
15.14. . This Plan is intended to comply and shall be administered in a manner that is intended to comply with section 409A of the Code and shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent. To the extent that an Award, issuance and/or payment is subject to section 409A of the Code, it shall be awarded and/or issued or paid in a manner that will comply with section 409A of the Code, including proposed, temporary or final regulations or any other guidance issued by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service with respect thereto. To the extent any terms of the Plan or Award Agreements are ambiguous, such terms shall be interpreted as necessary to comply with section 409A of the Code.
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
15.15. . In connection with the separation of the corporation from Duke Energy, the Corporation was authorized to issue Awards ("Conversion Awards") in connection with the equitable adjustment by Duke Energy of certain stock options, performance shares, phantom stock awards, restricted stock awards and other equity-based awards previously granted by Duke Energy (collectively, the "Duke Energy Awards"). Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, including but not limited to Sections 5, 6.2 and 7.3, and in any event in accordance with a formula for the conversion of Duke Energy Awards determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion consistent with the terms of the Employee Matters Agreement entered into in connection with the separation of the Corporation from Duke Energy, (i) the number of shares to be subject to a Conversion Award was determined by the Committee and (ii) the other terms and conditions of each Conversion Award, including option exercise price, was determined by the Committee.
Converted Duke Energy Awards
 
15.16. .Notwithstanding any provision in this Plan to the contrary, if the payment of any benefit herein would be subject to additional taxes and interest under Code Section 409A because the timing of such payment is not delayed as required under Section 409A for a Specified Employee, then any such payment that the Participant would otherwise be entitled to receive during the first six months following the date of Participant's separation from service shall be accumulated and paid within fifteen (15) business days after the date that is six months following the date of the participant's separation from service, or such earlier date upon which such amount can be paid under Code Section 409A without being subject to such additional taxes and interest.
Six Month Delay
15.17. . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Corporation will be entitled to the extent permitted or required by applicable law or Company policy as in effect from time to time to include in any Award Agreement the Corporation's right to recoup compensation of whatever kind paid by the Corporation or any of its affiliates at any time to a Participant under this Plan.
Clawback
 
16.1. . The Effective Date of the amended and restated Plan shall be the date of approval by the Corporation's shareholders.
Effective Date
16.2. . The Plan shall terminate on the date immediately preceding the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date. The Board may, in its sole discretion and at any earlier date, terminate the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no termination of the Plan shall in any manner affect any Award theretofore granted without the consent of the Participant or the permitted transferee of the Award.
Termination
16.3. . The Board may at any time and from time to time and in any respect, amend or modify the Plan; provided, however, that no amendment or modification of the Plan shall be effective without the consent of the Corporation's shareholders that would (i) change the class of Eligible Persons under the Plan, (ii) increase the number of shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan or for certain types of Awards under Section 3.1 hereof, or (iii) allow the grant of SARs or Options at an exercise price below Fair Market Value, or allow the repricing of SARs or Options without shareholder approval. In addition, the Board may seek the approval of any amendment or modification by the Corporation's shareholders to the extent it deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion for purposes of compliance with Section 162(m) or section 422 of the Code, the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange or for any other purpose. No amendment or modification of the Plan shall materially adversely affect any Award theretofore granted without the consent of the Participant or the permitted transferee of the Award.
Amendment
IN WITNESS OF its amendment and restatement by the Board on February 22, 2011, this Plan is executed on behalf of the Corporation this 8
th
day of March, 2011.
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
SECTION 1.1 The purpose of the amended and restated Spectra Energy Corp Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan, (the "Plan") is to benefit and advance the interests of Spectra Energy Corp, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), by rewarding selected senior executives of the Corporation and its subsidiaries for their contributions to the Corporation's financial success and thereby motivate them to continue to make such contributions in the future by granting annual performance-based awards (individually, "Award").
 Purpose.
SECTION 1.2 The Plan shall be administered by a committee ("Committee") which shall adopt such rules as it may deem appropriate in order to carry out the purpose of the Plan. The Committee shall be the Compensation Committee of the Corporation's Board of Directors ("Board") (or such subcommittee as may be appointed by the Board) except that (i) the number of directors on the Committee shall not be less than two (2) and (ii) each member of the Committee shall be an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). All questions of interpretation, administration, and application of the Plan shall be determined by a majority of the members of the Committee, except that the Committee may authorize any one or more of its members, or any officer of the Corporation, to execute and deliver documents on behalf of the Committee to the extent consistent with the provisions of Section 162(m) of the Code. The determination of such majority shall be final and binding in all matters relating to the Plan. The Committee shall have authority and discretion to determine the terms and conditions of the Awards granted to eligible persons specified in Section 1.3 below ("Participants").
 Administration of the Plan.
SECTION 1.3 Awards may be granted to key employees of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries who are designated as such by the Committee. An individual shall not be deemed an employee for purposes of the Plan unless such individual receives compensation from either the Corporation or one of its subsidiaries for services performed as an employee of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries.
 Eligible Persons.
SECTION 2.1 The Committee may grant Awards to eligible employees with respect to each fiscal year of the Corporation, or such other performance period determined by the Committee, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.
 Awards.
SECTION 2.2 No later than 90 days after the commencement of each fiscal year of the Corporation, or within the period required to qualify for the "performance-based compensation" exception to Code Section 162(m) with respect to other performance periods, the Committee shall establish (i) performance targets ("Performance Targets") for the Corporation for such fiscal year or other period ("Performance Periods") and (ii) target awards ("Target Awards") that correspond to the Performance Targets, for each eligible employee to whom an Award for the Performance Period is granted ("Participant"). The Committee may establish Performance Targets for Awards that are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code in terms of specified levels of any of the following business measures, which may be applied with respect to the Corporation, or any of its subsidiaries or business units, and which may be measured on an absolute or relative to peer-group basis: total shareholder return; stock price increase; return on equity; return on capital; earnings per share; EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes); EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization); ongoing earnings (as defined by management); cash flow (including operating cash flow, free cash flow, discounted cash flow return on investment, and cash flow in excess of costs of capital); EVA (economic value added); economic profit (net operating profit after tax, less a
 Terms of Awards.
 
cost of capital charge); SVA (shareholder value added); revenues; net income; operating income; pre-tax profit margin; performance against business plan; customer service; corporate governance quotient or rating; market share; employee satisfaction; safety; employee engagement; supplier diversity; workforce diversity; operating margins; credit rating; dividend payments; expenses; retained earnings; completion of acquisitions, divestitures and corporate restructuring; and individual goals based on objective business criteria underlying the goals listed above and which pertain to individual effort as to achievement of those goals or to one or more business criteria in the areas of litigation, human resources, information services, production, inventory, support services, site development, plant development, building development, facility development, government relations, product market share or management. At the time the Committee determines the terms of the Performance Target(s), the Committee may also specify any exclusion(s) for charges related to any event(s) or occurrence(s) which the Committee determines should appropriately be excluded, as applicable, for purposes of measuring performance against the applicable Performance Targets provided that such excluded items are objectively determinable by reference to the Corporation's financial statements, notes to the Corporation's financial statements and/or management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, appearing in the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the applicable year. If the Committee determines that a change in the business, operations, corporate structure or capital structure of the Corporation, or the manner in which it conducts its business, or other events or circumstances, render previously established Performance Targets unsuitable, the Committee may modify such Performance Targets, in whole or in part, as the Committee deems appropriate and equitable; provided that, unless the Committee determines otherwise, no such action shall be taken if and to the extent it would result in the loss of an otherwise available exemption of the Award under Section 162(m). In addition, a performance measure used to determine a Performance Target may be subject to such later revisions as the Committee shall deem appropriate to reflect significant unforeseen events such as changes in law, accounting practices or unusual or nonrecurring items or occurrences or to satisfy applicable regulatory requirements. Any such adjustments shall be subject to such limitations as the Committee deems appropriate in the case of an Award that is intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m). Alternatively, the Committee may establish Performance Targets in terms of such strategic objectives as it may from time to time specify for Awards that are not intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
SECTION 2.3 The aggregate amount of all Awards payable to any Participant during any one calendar year shall not exceed Four Million Dollars ($4,000,000.00).
 Limitation on Awards.
SECTION 2.4 The Committee shall, promptly after the date on which the necessary financial or other information for a particular Performance Period becomes available, certify in writing whether any Performance Target has been achieved, and, if so, the highest Performance Target that has been achieved, all in the manner required by Section 162(m) of the Code. If any Performance Target has been achieved, the Awards, determined for each Participant with reference to the Target Award that corresponds to the highest Performance Target achieved, for such Performance Period shall have been earned except that the Committee may reduce the amount of any Award to reflect the Committee's assessment of the Participant's individual performance, to reflect the failure of the Participant to remain in the continuous employ of the Corporation or its subsidiaries throughout the applicable Performance Period, or for any other reason. Such awards shall become payable in cash as promptly as practicable thereafter, but in no event more than two and one-half months following the end of the year in which the Performance Period ends. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may permit a Participant to elect to defer payment of all or any portion of the Award the Participant might earn for a Performance Period, by making a deferral election on such terms and conditions as the Committee may establish from time to time.
 Determination of Award.
SECTION 3.1 No employee shall have any claim or right to receive Awards under the Plan. Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving an employee any right to be retained by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries.
 No Rights to Awards or Continued Employment.
 
SECTION 3.2Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, the Corporation will be entitled to the extent permitted or required by applicable law or Company policy as in effect from time to time to recoup compensation of whatever kind paid by the Corporation or any of its affiliates at any time to a Participant under the Plan.
 Clawback.
SECTION 3.3  Awards (or interests therein) to a Participant or amounts payable with respect to a Participant under the Plan are not subject to assignment or alienation, whether voluntary or involuntary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant may designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive, in the event of the Participant's death, any amounts remaining to be paid with respect to the Participant under the Plan. The Participant shall have the right to revoke any such designation and to redesignate a beneficiary or beneficiaries. To be effective, any such designation, revocation, or redesignation must be in such written form as the Corporation may prescribe and must be received by the Corporation prior to the Participant's death. If a Participant dies without effectively designating a beneficiary or if all designated beneficiaries predecease the Participant, any amounts remaining to be paid with respect to the Participant under the Plan, shall be paid to the Participant's estate.
Restriction on Transfer, Beneficiary.
SECTION 3.4 The Corporation or a subsidiary thereof, as appropriate, shall have the right to deduct from all payments made under the Plan to a Participant or to a Participant's beneficiary or beneficiaries federal, state, local or other taxes with respect to such payments.
 Tax Withholding.
SECTION 3.5 The Plan shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Corporation or its shareholders to make or authorize any recapitalization, reorganization, merger, acquisition, divestiture, consolidation, spin off, combination, liquidation, dissolution, sale of assets, or other similar corporate transaction or event involving the Corporation or a subsidiary or division thereof or any other event or series of events, whether of a similar character or otherwise.
 No Restriction on Right of Corporation to Effect Changes; No Restriction on Other Compensation.
Nothing in the Plan shall preclude or limit the ability of the Corporation to pay any compensation to a Participant under the Corporation's other compensation and benefit plans and programs, including without limitation any equity or bonus plan program or arrangement.
SECTION 3.6 The Corporation shall not have any obligation to establish any separate fund or trust or other segregation of assets to provide for payments under the Plan. To the extent any person acquires any rights to receive payments hereunder from the Corporation, such rights shall be no greater than those of an unsecured creditor.
 Source of Payments.
SECTION 3.7 The Plan shall continue in effect until terminated by the Board. The Committee may at any time amend or otherwise modify the Plan in such respects as it deems advisable; provided, however, no such amendment or modification may be effective without Board approval or Corporation shareholder approval if such approval is necessary to comply with the requirements for qualified performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
 Termination and Amendment.
SECTION 3.8 The Plan, and all Awards hereunder, shall be subject to all applicable rules and regulations of governmental or other authorities.
 Governmental Regulations.
SECTION 3.9 The headings of sections and subsections herein are included solely for convenience of reference and shall not affect the meaning of any of the provisions of the Plan.
 Headings.
SECTION 3.10 The Plan and all rights and Awards hereunder shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the state of Texas.
 Governing Law.
SECTION 3.11 The Effective Date of the amended and restated Plan shall be the date of approval by the Corporation's shareholders.
 Effective Date.
 
IN WITNESS OF its amendment and restatement by the Board on February 22, 2011, this Plan is executed on behalf of the Corporation this 8th day of March, 2011.
 
 


