FILE:RHI/RHI-8K-20030415164145.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Item 7.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)
Exhibits
Item 12.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
        On April 15, 2003, Robert Half International Inc. issued a press release reporting earnings for the first fiscal quarter of 2003.
        A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
SIGNATURES

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC.
REPORTS FIRST-QUARTER REVENUES AND EARNINGS
        MENLO PARK, California, April 15, 2003Robert Half International Inc. (NYSE symbol: RHI) today reported revenues and earnings for the first quarter ended March 31, 2003.
        For the quarter ended March 31, 2003, the company recorded a net loss of $3.4 million or $.02 per share, on revenues of $473.2 million. Net income for the prior year's first quarter was $9.1 million or $.05 per share, on revenues of $468.5 million. The $.02 loss per share reported for the first quarter of 2003 is after a $.05 loss per share impact from the company's new Protiviti subsidiary.
SM
        Harold M. Messmer, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of Robert Half International Inc., said, "The lengthy recession continues to affect business in our staffing operations. Labor markets remained weak in the first quarter as the already uncertain U.S. economy was further impacted by the uncertain geopolitical climate leading up to the war in Iraq."
        Messmer noted that the company was pleased with the results of its Protiviti subsidiary. "First-quarter revenues for Protiviti exceeded our expectations. We have seen a significant increase in activity, most notably in the areas of Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 compliance, regulatory and forensic investigations, technology security and the establishment of new internal audit functions," he said.
        Robert Half International management will conduct a conference call today at 5 p.m. EDT to discuss the quarterly financial results. The dial-in number is 888-458-9977 (+1-712-271-1112 outside the United States) and the passcode is "Robert Half International." A taped recording of this call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 9 p.m. EDT today and ending at 8 p.m. EDT on April 18, 2003. The dial-in number for the replay is 800-925-0856 (+1-402-998-0865 outside the United States). The conference call will also be archived in audio format on the company's website at www.rhi.com.
        Robert Half International Inc. is the world's largest provider of specialized staffing services. Its divisions include Accountemps, Robert Half Finance & Accounting and Robert Half Management Resources, for temporary, full-time and project professionals, respectively, in the fields of accounting and finance; OfficeTeam, for highly skilled temporary administrative support personnel; Robert Half Technology, for information technology professionals; The Affiliates, for legal personnel; and The Creative Group, for advertising, marketing and web design professionals. The company serves its clients and candidates through more than 320 offices worldwide and through online job search services at its divisional websites, all of which can be accessed at www.rhi.com. Robert Half International is also the parent company of Protiviti (www.protiviti.com), a leading independent business risk consulting and internal audit firm.
        Certain information contained in this press release may be deemed forward-looking statements regarding events and financial trends that may affect the company's future operating results or financial positions. These statements may be identified by words such as "estimate", "forecast", "project", "plan", "intend", "believe", "expect", "anticipate", or variations or negatives thereof, or by similar or comparable words or phrases. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
        These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in levels of unemployment and other economic conditions in the United States or foreign countries where the company does business, or in particular regions or industries; reduction in the supply of qualified candidates for temporary employment or the company's ability to attract qualified candidates; the entry of new competitors into the marketplace or expansion by existing competitors; the ability of the company to maintain existing client relationships and attract new clients in the context of changing economic or competitive conditions; the impact of competitive pressures, including any change in the demand for the company's services, on the company's ability to maintain its profit margins; the possibility of the company incurring liability for its activities, including the activities of its temporary employees, or for events impacting its temporary employees on clients' premises; the success of the company in attracting, training and retaining qualified management personnel and other staff employees; and whether governments will impose additional regulations or licensing requirements on personnel services businesses in particular or on employer/employee relationships in general.
        With respect to Protiviti, other risks and uncertainties include the fact that future success will depend on its ability to retain employees and attract clients; significant costs and diversion of management time could be incurred in integrating key personnel into Protiviti; certain capitalizable costs associated with the employment arrangements could become impaired and written off; failure to produce projected revenues could adversely affect financial results; and we could become involved in litigation relating to prior transactions or activities.
        Because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the company's business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. The company undertakes no obligation to update information contained in this release.
        A copy of this press release is available at www.rhi.com.
QuickLinks
Exhibit 99
ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS (in thousands, except per share amounts)
ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION (in thousands)


