FILE:RHI/RHI-8K-20080129161143.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 29, 2008, Robert Half International Inc. issued a press release reporting earnings for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2007. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The foregoing information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such future filing.
Item 8.01    Other Events.
On December 6, 2004, Plaintiffs Ian O'Donnell and David Jolicoeur, on behalf of themselves and a putative class of salaried Staffing Managers, Account Executives and Account Managers, filed a complaint in Massachusetts Superior Court, later removed to the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, naming the Company and one of its wholly owned subsidiaries as Defendants. As previously reported, the Court allowed Plaintiffs to amend their complaint to add claims that the Company failed to pay its exempt employees on a "salary basis" as required by Massachusetts and federal law, but denied Plaintiffs' first motion seeking conditional certification of their federal claims as a collective action on behalf of a group of Staffing Managers, Account Executives and Account Managers. The Plaintiffs later filed a second motion for conditional certification, which the Court denied on May 10, 2007. On January 9, 2008, the Court denied two other motions brought by the Plaintiffs, for reconsideration of the Court's denial of conditional certification and for certification of that question to the First Circuit Court of Appeals. In the same January 9, 2008 decision, the Court also denied cross-motions for summary judgment on Plaintiffs' salary basis claims. Finally, the Court reserved judgment regarding Plaintiffs' motion for certification of a class based on state law claims, subject to further briefing by the parties. At this stage of the litigation, it is not feasible to predict its outcome or a range of loss, should a loss occur. Accordingly, no amounts have been provided in the accompanying financial statements. Reference is made to Note G to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) included in the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2007 for a complete description of this case.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)    Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC. REPORTS RECORD REVENUES AND EARNINGS FOR THE FOURTH QUARTER OF 2007
MENLO PARK, California, January 29, 2008  Robert Half International Inc. (NYSE symbol: RHI) today reported record revenues and earnings for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2007.
For the quarter ended December 31, 2007, net income was $78.8 million or $.50 per share, on revenues of $1.22 billion. Net income for the prior year's fourth quarter was $75.4 million or $.45 per share, on revenues of $1.06 billion.
For the year ended December 31, 2007, net income was $296.2 million or $1.81 per share, on revenues of $4.65 billion. For the year ended December 31, 2006, net income was $283.2 million or $1.65 per share, on revenues of $4.01 billion.
Harold M. Messmer, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of Robert Half International, said: "The fourth quarter of 2007 saw a continuation of the double-digit, year-over-year revenue growth we have seen for 16 consecutive quarters. International operations reported particularly strong fourth-quarter results."
Messmer continued, "2007 capped a very successful five-year period for RHI. Companywide revenues increased from $2 billion to $4.6 billion during this time frame, a compound annual growth rate of 20 percent, the vast majority of which was organic growth. Return on equity during this period averaged 22 percent per year, growing to 29 percent in 2007."
Robert Half International management will conduct a conference call today at 5 p.m. EST following the release. The dial-in number is 800-862-9098 (+1-785-424-1051 outside the United States) and the passcode is "Robert Half International." A taped recording of this call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 8 p.m. EST today and ending at 8 p.m. EST on February 5. The dial-in number for the replay is 800-283-4641 (+1-402-220-0851 outside the United States). The conference call also will be archived in audio format on the company's website at www.rhi.com.
Founded in 1948, Robert Half International Inc., the world's first and largest specialized staffing firm, is a recognized leader in professional consulting and staffing services, and is the parent company of Protiviti (www.protiviti.com), a leading independent internal audit and risk consulting firm. The company's specialized staffing divisions include Accountemps, Robert Half Finance & Accounting and Robert Half Management Resources, for temporary, full-time and project professionals, respectively, in the fields of accounting and finance; OfficeTeam, for highly skilled temporary administrative support personnel; Robert Half Technology, for information technology professionals; Robert Half Legal, for legal personnel; and The Creative Group, for advertising, marketing and web design professionals. The company has staffing and consulting operations in more than 400 locations worldwide.
Certain information contained in this press release may be deemed forward-looking statements regarding events and financial trends that may affect the company's future operating results or financial positions. These statements may be identified by words such as "estimate", "forecast", "project", "plan", "intend", "believe", "expect", "anticipate", or variations or negatives thereof, or by similar or comparable words or phrases.
Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in levels of unemployment and other economic conditions in the United States or foreign countries where the company does business, or in particular regions or industries; reduction in the supply of candidates for temporary employment or the company's ability to attract candidates; the entry of new competitors into the marketplace or expansion by existing competitors; the ability of the company to maintain existing client relationships and attract new clients in the context of changing economic or competitive conditions; the impact of competitive pressures, including any change in the demand for the company's services, on the company's ability to maintain its margins; the possibility of the company incurring liability for its activities, including the activities of its temporary employees, or for events impacting its temporary employees on clients' premises; the possibility that adverse publicity could impact the company's ability to attract and retain clients and candidates; the success of the company in attracting, training, and retaining qualified management personnel and other staff employees; whether governments will impose additional regulations or licensing requirements on personnel services businesses in particular or on employer/employee relationships in general; whether there will be ongoing demand for Sarbanes-Oxley or other regulatory compliance services; and litigation relating to prior or current transactions or activities, including litigation that may be disclosed from time to time in the company's SEC filings.
Additionally, with respect to Protiviti, other risks and uncertainties include the fact that future success will depend on its ability to retain employees and attract clients; there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for Sarbanes-Oxley or other regulatory compliance services; failure to produce projected revenues could adversely affect financial results; and there is the possibility of involvement in litigation relating to prior or current transactions or activities.
Because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the company's business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. The company undertakes no obligation to update information contained in this release.
A copy of this release is available at www.rhi.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


