FILE:RHI/RHI-8K-20120724162458.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 24, 2012, Robert Half International Inc. issued a press release reporting earnings for the second fiscal quarter of 2012. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The foregoing information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such future filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL REPORTS SECOND-QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS
U.S. Staffing Revenue Up 17 Percent on Continued Demand for Skilled Talent
MENLO PARK, California, July 24, 2012  Robert Half International Inc. (NYSE symbol: RHI) today reported revenues and earnings for the second quarter ended June 30, 2012.
For the quarter ended June 30, 2012, net income was $45.3 million, or $.32 per share, on revenues of $1.03 billion. Net income and income per share this quarter were reduced by $8.1 million, or $.06 per share, related to a nonrecurring litigation settlement and the resolution of certain tax matters disclosed in the company's July 5, 2012, Form 8-K filing. Net income for the prior year's second quarter was $36.4 million, or $.25 per share, on revenues of $938.0 million.
For the six months ended June 30, 2012, net income was $93.7 million, or $.67 per share, on revenues of $2.04 billion. For the six months ended June 30, 2011, net income was $63.1 million, or $.43 per share, on revenues of $1.82 billion.
"Demand for our specialized staffing and consulting services remained strong during the quarter, particularly in our U.S. staffing operations, which grew 17 percent versus the prior year," said Harold M. Messmer, Jr., chairman and CEO of Robert Half International. "Gross margins continued to expand with an increasing mix of permanent placement and temp-to-hire conversion revenues."
Robert Half International management will conduct a conference call today at 5 p.m. EDT. The dial-in number is 877-814-0475 (+1-706-643-9224 outside the United States). The password to access the call is "Robert Half." A taped recording of this call will be available for replay beginning at approximately 8 p.m. EDT today and ending at 8 p.m. EDT on August 24. The dial-in number for the replay is 855-859-2056 (+1-404-537-3406 outside the United States). To access the replay, enter conference ID# 97002140. The conference call also will be archived in audio format on the company's website at www.rhi.com.
Founded in 1948, Robert Half International Inc., the world's first and largest specialized staffing firm, is a recognized leader in professional consulting and staffing services, and is the parent company of Protiviti, a global consulting and internal audit firm composed of experts in risk, advisory and transaction services. The company's specialized staffing divisions include Accountemps, Robert Half Finance & Accounting and Robert Half Management Resources, for temporary, full-time and senior-level project professionals, respectively, in the fields of accounting and finance; OfficeTeam, for highly skilled temporary administrative support personnel; Robert Half Technology, for information technology professionals; Robert Half Legal, for legal personnel; and The Creative Group, for interactive, design, marketing, advertising and public relations professionals.
Robert Half International has staffing and consulting operations in more than 400 locations worldwide.
Certain information contained in this press release may be deemed forward-looking statements regarding events and financial trends that may affect the company's future operating results or financial positions. These statements may be identified by words such as "estimate", "forecast", "project", "plan", "intend", "believe",
"expect", "anticipate", or variations or negatives thereof, or by similar or comparable words or phrases. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: the global financial and economic situation; changes in levels of unemployment and other economic conditions in the United States or foreign countries where the company does business, or in particular regions or industries; reduction in the supply of candidates for temporary employment or the company's ability to attract candidates; the entry of new competitors into the marketplace or expansion by existing competitors; the ability of the company to maintain existing client relationships and attract new clients in the context of changing economic or competitive conditions; the impact of competitive pressures, including any change in the demand for the company's services, on the company's ability to maintain its margins; the possibility of the company incurring liability for its activities, including the activities of its temporary employees, or for events impacting its temporary employees on clients' premises; the possibility that adverse publicity could impact the company's ability to attract and retain clients and candidates; the success of the company in attracting, training, and retaining qualified management personnel and other staff employees; the company's ability to comply with governmental regulations affecting personnel services businesses in particular or employer/employee relationships in general; whether there will be ongoing demand for Sarbanes-Oxley or other regulatory compliance services; the company's reliance on short-term contracts for a significant percentage of its business; litigation relating to prior or current transactions or activities, including litigation that may be disclosed from time to time in the company's SEC filings; the ability of the company to manage its international operations and comply with foreign laws and regulations; the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the possibility that the additional costs the company will incur as a result of health care reform legislation may adversely affect the company's profit margins or the demand for the company's services; the possibility that the company's computer and communications hardware and software systems could be damaged or their service interrupted; and the possibility that the company may fail to maintain adequate financial and management controls and as a result suffer errors in its financial reporting.
Additionally, with respect to Protiviti, other risks and uncertainties include the fact that future success will depend on its ability to retain employees and attract clients; there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for Sarbanes-Oxley or other regulatory compliance services; failure to produce projected revenues could adversely affect financial results; and there is the possibility of involvement in litigation relating to prior or current transactions or activities.
Because long-term contracts are not a significant part of the company's business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. The company undertakes no obligation to update information contained in this release.
A copy of this release is available at www.rhi.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The financial results of Robert Half International Inc. (the "company") are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). To help readers understand the company's financial performance, the company supplements its GAAP financial results with revenue growth rates derived from Non-GAAP revenue amounts.
Variations in the company's financial results include the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and billing days. The company provides "same billing days and constant currency" revenue growth calculations to remove the impact of these items. These calculations show the year-over-year revenue growth rates for the company's staffing lines of business on both a reported basis and also on a same-day, constant-currency basis for Global, U.S. and International operations. This information is presented for each of the five previous quarters. The company has provided this data because management believes it better reflects the company's actual revenue growth rates and aids in evaluating revenue trends over time. The company expresses year-over-year revenue changes as calculated percentages using the same number of billing days and constant currency exchange rates.
The Non-GAAP financial measures provided herein may not provide information that is directly comparable to that provided by other companies in the company's industry, as other companies may calculate such financial results differently. The company's Non-GAAP financial measures are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP, and should not be considered as alternatives to actual revenue growth derived from revenue amounts presented in accordance with GAAP. The company does not consider these Non-GAAP financial measures to be a substitute for, or superior to, the information provided by GAAP financial results. A reconciliation of the Non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is provided on the following pages.
 
STAFFING REVENUE GROWTH RATES (%) (UNAUDITED):
 
The Non-GAAP financial measures included in the table above adjust for the following items:
The "As Reported" revenue growth rates are based upon reported revenues which include the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to calculate "Constant Currency" revenue growth rates, as-reported amounts are retranslated using foreign exchange rates from the prior year's comparable period.
Foreign Currency Translation.
The "As Reported" revenue growth rates are based upon reported revenues. Management calculates a global, weighted-average number of billing days for each reporting period based upon input from all countries and all Staffing lines of business. In order to remove the fluctuations caused by comparable periods having different billing days, the company calculates "same billing day" revenue growth rates by dividing each comparative period's reported revenues by the calculated number of billing days for that period, to arrive at a "per billing day" amount. The "Same Billing Day" growth rates are then calculated based upon the "per billing day" amounts.
Billing Days.
The term "same billing days and constant currency" means that the impact of different billing days has been removed from constant currency calculation. A reconciliation of the Non-GAAP year-over-year revenue growth rates to the "As Reported" year-over-year revenue growth rates is included herein on Pages 8-9.
 
STAFFING REVENUE GROWTH RATE (%) RECONCILIATION (UNAUDITED):
 
 
STAFFING REVENUE GROWTH RATE (%) RECONCILIATION (UNAUDITED):
 
 
 


