Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Factors that May Affect Future Operating Results, for a discussion of certain factors that could cause the Companys actual operating results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements. General In June 2004, the Company changed its corporate name from Patterson Dental Company to Patterson Companies, Inc. (Patterson or the Company). Patterson retained its existing Nasdaq stock symbol. The corporate name change was adopted to reflect Pattersons expanding base of business, which now encompasses the veterinary and rehabilitation supply markets, as well as its traditional base of operations in the dental supply market. Pattersons operating units include Patterson Dental, Webster Veterinary and Patterson Medical, formerly known as AbilityOne Corporation. Patterson is a value added distributor serving three major markets: North American dental supply; U.S. companion pet (dogs, cats and other common household pets) and equine veterinary supply; and The worldwide rehabilitation and non wheelchair assistive products supply market. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to Patterson or the Company include its subsidiaries: Direct Dental Supply Co., Patterson Dental Canada Inc., Patterson Dental Supply, Inc., Webster Veterinary Supply, Inc., PDC Funding Company, LLC, Patterson Technology Center, Inc., Patterson Office Supplies, Inc., Webster Management LP, Patterson Medical Holdings, Inc., Patterson Medical Supply, Inc., Sammons Preston Canada, Inc., AO Liquidation, Inc., Tumble Forms, Inc., Midland Manufacturing Company, Inc., Medco Supply Company, Inc., Intra Corp., Patterson Logistics Services, Inc., Accu Bite, Inc., Accu Bite Dental Products Limited Liability Company, Williamston Industrial Center, LLC, Strategic Dental Marketing, Inc., AbilityOne Homecraft Limited, AbilityOne Limited, AbilityOne Kinetec S. A. and AOC Vertriebs GmbH. Patterson began distributing dental supplies in 1877. The modern history of the business dates to May 1985, when the Companys management and certain investors purchased the Company from a subsidiary of The Beatrice Companies, Inc. Patterson became a publicly traded company in October 1992. The Company is a corporation organized under the laws of Minnesota. The Company historically reported under one operating segment, dental supply. In July 2001, the Company purchased the veterinary supply assets of J. A. Webster, Inc., which became a reportable business segment. Then in September 2003, the Company acquired AbilityOne Products Corp., creating a third business that serves the rehabilitation supply market. The Companys three reportable segments, dental supply, veterinary supply and rehabilitation supply, are strategic business units that offer similar products and services to different customer bases. Each business is a market leader with a strong competitive position, serves a fragmented market that offers consolidation opportunities and offers relatively low cost consumable supplies, making the Companys value added business proposition highly attractive to customers. Shared Services Initiative To streamline Pattersons cost structure, the Company is consolidating its distribution infrastructure and business systems. With respect to the distribution infrastructure, the first step in this process came in March 2005 3 Table of Contents when the Company opened a facility in Columbia, South Carolina, that replaced the individual dental and veterinary distribution centers that were serving this region. Next, the Company consolidated separate dental and veterinary facilities in Seattle into a new shared distribution center in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. During the first quarter of 2007, the Company also opened a new distribution center in eastern Pennsylvania that is replacing nearby, separate dental and veterinary facilities. Plans call for this distribution center to stock Patterson Medical inventory beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2007. Patterson Medicals distribution facility in Bolingbrook, IL will close later in calendar year 2006. This units products are now stocked in shared distribution facilities in Dinuba, CA, Jacksonville, FL and Fort Worth, TX. The second phase of the Companys consolidation plan, which will include a lower level of capital expenditure than the preceding initiatives, is expected to start later in fiscal 2007 with the modification of another existing facility that will accommodate products for multiple business units. Dental Supply Overview As Pattersons largest business, Patterson Dental is one of the two largest distributors of dental products in North America. The business has operations in the United States and Canada. Patterson Dental, a full service, value added supplier to dentists, dental laboratories, institutions, and other healthcare professionals, provides: consumable products (including x ray film, restorative materials, hand instruments and sterilization products); basic and advanced technology dental equipment; practice management and clinical software; patient education systems; and office forms and stationery. Patterson Dental offers its customers a broad selection of dental products including more than 90,000 stock keeping units (SKUs) of which approximately 4,500 are private label products sold under the Patterson name. Patterson Dental also offers customers a full range of related services including dental equipment installation, maintenance and repair, dental office design and equipment financing. Patterson Dental markets its dental products and services through approximately 1,540 direct sales representatives, 398 of whom are equipment specialists. Patterson Dental has over 125 years of experience providing quality service to dental professionals. Net sales of this segment have increased from $165.8 million in fiscal 1986 to nearly $2.0 billion in fiscal 2006 and profitability has increased from an operating loss in fiscal 1986 to operating income of $249.8 million in fiscal 2006. Patterson estimates the dental supply market it serves to be approximately $6.0 billion annually and that its share of this market is approximately 32%. The underlying structure of the dental supply market consists of a sizeable geographically dispersed number of fragmented dental practices and is attractive for the Companys role as a value added, full service distributor. According to the American Dental Association, there are over 160,000 dentists practicing in the United States in approximately 135,000 dental practices. In Canada, there are approximately 18,000 licensed dentists according to the Canadian Dental Association. The average general practitioner generated approximately $560,000 in annual revenue in 2003, while the average specialty practitioner produced about $800,000. The Company believes that a dentist uses between 5% and 7% of annual revenue to purchase consumable supplies used in the daily operations of the practice. This translates into between $28,000 and $39,000 of supplies being purchased by the average practice each year. The Company believes the average dental practitioner purchases about 40% of their supplies from their top supplier. Total expenditures for dental services in the United States increased from $31 billion in 1990 to $84 billion in 2005. Domestic dental care expenditures are projected by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to grow 6% annually, reaching $116 billion by the year 2010. The Company believes that the demand for dental services, equipment and supplies will continue to be influenced by the following factors: Demographics. The U.S. population grew from 235 million in 1980 to 297 million in 2005, and is expected to reach 309 million by 2010. The median age of the population is also increasing and the Company believes that older dental patients spend more on a per capita basis for dental services. Dental products and techniques. Technological developments in dental products have contributed to advances in dental techniques and procedures, including cosmetic dentistry and dental implants. 4 Table of Contents Demand for certain dental procedures. Demand is growing for preventive dentistry and specialty services such as periodontic (the treatment of gums), endodontic (root canals), orthodontic (braces), and other dental procedures that enable patients to keep their natural teeth longer and improve their appearance. Increased dental office productivity. The number of dentists per 100,000 persons in the U.S. is forecasted to decline over the next two decades. As a result, the number of patients per dental practice is expected to grow. For this reason dentists are showing increased willingness to invest in dental equipment and office infrastructure that can strengthen the productivity of their practices. Demand for infection control products. Greater public awareness as well as regulations and guidelines instituted by OSHA, the American Dental Association and state regulatory authorities have resulted in increased use of infection control (asepsis) products such as protective clothing, gloves, facemasks, and sterilization equipment to prevent the spread of communicable diseases such as AIDS, hepatitis and herpes. Coverage by dental plans. An increasing number of dental services are being funded by private dental insurance. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services statistics on expenditures for dental services in the United States indicate that private dental insurance paid approximately 50% of the $84 billion in total expenditures for 2005. Strategy Pattersons objective is to remain a leading national distributor of supplies, equipment and related services in the market while continuing to improve its profitability and enhance its value to customers. To achieve this objective, Patterson has adopted a strategy of emphasizing its value added, full service capabilities, using technology to enhance customer service, continuing to improve operating efficiencies, and growing through internal expansion and acquisitions. Emphasizing Value Added, Full Service Capabilities. Patterson Dental is positioned to meet virtually all of the needs of dental practitioners by providing a full range of consumable supplies, equipment and software, and value added services. The Company believes that its customers value full service and responsive delivery of quality supplies and equipment. Customers also increasingly expect suppliers to be knowledgeable about products and services, and generally a superior sales representative can create a special relationship with the practitioner by providing an informational link to the overall industry. The Companys knowledgeable sales representatives assist customers in the selection and purchase of supplies and equipment. In addition, the high quality sales force allows Patterson to offer broader product lines. Since most dental practices lack a significant degree of back office support, the convenience of our full service capabilities enables dentists to spend more time with patients and, thus, generate additional revenues. Patterson meets its customers requirements by delivering frequent, small quantity orders rapidly and reliably from its strategically located distribution centers. Equipment specialists, technology representatives, and service technicians also support the Companys value added strategy in the dental supply market. Equipment specialists offer consultation on office design, equipment requirements and financing. Technology representatives provide guidance on integrating technology solutions including practice management and clinical software, digital radiography, custom hardware and networking into the dental practice. The Companys experienced service technicians perform equipment installation, maintenance and repair services including services on products not purchased through Patterson. Using Technology to Enhance Customer Service. As part of its commitment to providing superior customer service, the Company offers its customers easy order placement. The Company has offered electronic ordering capability to its dental supply segment since 1987 when it first introduced Remote Order Entry (REMOSM). The Company believes that its computerized order entry systems help to establish relationships with new customers and increase loyalty among existing customers. The remote order entry systems permit customers to place orders from 5 Table of Contents their offices directly to Patterson 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Over the years, the Company has continued to introduce new order entry systems designed to meet the varying needs of its customers. Today the Company offers four systems to the dental supply segment, eMAGINE&reg;, REMOSM, PDXpress&reg; and www.pattersoncompanies.com. Customers, as well as the Companys sales force, use these systems. Over the years, the number of orders transmitted electronically has grown steadily to approximately 60% of Pattersons consumable dental product volume or $655 million in fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2002, the Company introduced its newest order entry system, eMAGINE&reg;. eMAGINE&reg; has become the standard platform for the sales representative and includes many new features and upgrades including: up to three years of order history for the customers reference, faster searches for products and reports, order tracking, instant information on monthly product specials, descriptions and photographs of popular products and an electronic custom catalog, including a printable version with scannable bar codes. For those dental customers not using eMAGINE&reg;, the Company offers two alternative order entry products. REMOSM gives customers direct and immediate ordering access through a personal computer to a database containing Pattersons complete inventory. PDXpress&reg; is a handheld order entry system that eliminates handwritten order forms by permitting a user to scan a product bar code from an inventory tag system or from Pattersons bar coded catalog. These systems, including eMAGINE&reg;, are provided at no additional charge to customers who maintain certain minimum purchase requirements. The goal of the Companys Internet strategy is to distribute information and service related products over the Internet to enhance customers practices and to increase sales force productivity. The Companys Internet environment includes order entry, access to Patterson Today articles and manufacturers product information. Additionally, Patterson utilizes a tool, InfoSource, to provide real time customer and Company information to the Companys sales force, managers and vendors via the Internet. In addition to enhancing customer service, by offering electronic order entry systems to its customers, the Company enables its sales representatives to spend more time with existing customers and to call on additional customers. The Companys proprietary practice management and clinical software, EagleSoft&reg;, is developed and maintained by the Patterson Technology Center (PTC). The Company believes the PTC differentiates Patterson Dental from the competition by positioning Patterson Dental as the only company providing a single source solution for the high growth area of digital radiography. This technology, which we expect to be installed eventually in most dental offices, has a current market penetration of approximately 25%. Among its many specialized capabilities, the PTC provides system configuration, as well as the seamless integration of all digital operatory components with clinical software, including our EagleSoft&reg; line. This integration creates an electronic patient database that combines the patients front office record with digital information from the clinical x ray, intra oral camera, CEREC&reg; and other digital equipment. The PTC also will network the digital x ray system throughout the entire office and provide all required custom computer hardware for the system. In addition, the PTC provides installation and customer training, as well as a call center for troubleshooting customer problems and arranging for local service. Software and digital radiography customers also have access to the support capabilities of the PTC. The PTC provides support for our proprietary products as well as select branded product from our manufacturers. In addition to troubleshooting problems through its customer call center, the PTC designs and configures local area networks and assembles custom hardware. The PTC also develops and supports the Companys order entry systems. Continuing to Improve Operating Efficiencies. Patterson continues to implement programs designed to improve operating efficiencies and allow for continued sales growth over time. These programs include a wide variety of initiatives from investing in management information systems to consolidating distribution centers. Recent initiatives include upgrading the Companys communications architecture, developing a new technical service system, and implementation of the shared services concept. 6 Table of Contents The Company has improved operating efficiencies by converting its communications architecture to faster, higher capacity data lines that combine voice and data transmissions while reducing overall communication costs. The Company has made substantial progress in the development of a new field service management tool for its technical service operations. This new tool will allow the Company to fundamentally change its technical service business processes, improving the Companys ability to coordinate the actions of its service technicians and enhancing customer service while reducing the overall cost of operations. An integral part of Companys shared services concept is the consolidation and leveraging of distribution centers between the segments of the Company. The execution of this strategy is expected to take several years and the first stage is now largely complete. In fiscal 2005, the Company accomplished significant goals that included opening the first new, shared distribution facility in South Carolina. In fiscal 2006, the Company opened a new, shared distribution facility in Washington state that replaced dental and veterinary facilities previously operated in the area. In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company opened a new, shared distribution facility in eastern Pennsylvania. This facility consists of approximately 200,000 square feet of warehouse and office space and will support the distribution of products from all three of the operating units. As a result of these and other efforts, the Company expects to continue to improve its operating leverage and efficiencies going forward. Growing Through Internal Expansion and Acquisitions. The Company intends to continue to grow by opening additional sales offices, hiring established sales representatives, hiring and training college graduates as territory sales representatives, and acquiring other distributors in order to enter new markets and expand its customer base. The Company believes that it is well positioned to take advantage of expected continued consolidation in the dental distribution market. Over the past 18 years the Company has made a number of acquisitions, including the following: Dental distribution acquisitions in the United States In August 1987, Patterson acquired the D.L. Saslow Co., which at the time was the third largest distributor of dental products in the United States. Between 1989 and 2005, Patterson acquired certain assets of 25 smaller dental dealers throughout the United States. During fiscal 2002, the Company acquired Thompson Dental Company of Columbia, SC, a leading value added distributor of dental supplies, equipment and services in the mid Atlantic and southeastern U.S. Thompson ranked among the 10 largest dental distributors in the country. In September 2005, the Company acquired Accu Bite, Inc., a Michigan based dental distributor with approximately 60 field sales representatives. Dental distribution acquisitions in Canada In October 1993, Patterson Dental completed the acquisition of Healthco International, Inc.s Canadian subsidiary, Healthco Canada, Inc. In August 1997, the Company acquired Canadian Dental Supply Ltd., which expanded the Companys market share in British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan and Ontario. In July 2002, the Company acquired Distribution Quebec Dentaire, Inc., augmenting the Companys market share in Quebec. As a combined operation known as Patterson Dental Canada Inc., this subsidiary, which the Company believes is one of the two largest full service dental products distributors in Canada, employs approximately 495 people, 130 of whom are sales representatives. Printed office products acquisitions In October 1996, Patterson acquired the Colwell Systems division of Deluxe Corporation, now known as Patterson Office Supplies. This operation produces and sells a variety of printed office products used in medical, dental and veterinary offices. Software acquisitions In July 1997, Patterson Dental acquired EagleSoft, Inc., a developer and marketer of Windows&reg; based practice management and clinical software for dental offices. EagleSofts operation, now known as the Patterson Technology Center, is located in Effingham, Illinois. In September 2000, the Company 7 Table of Contents acquired eCheck up.com, a web based, value added service that complements and expands the Companys current product offerings to the front office of the dental practice. eCheck up.com is an Internet service that provides on line practice performance and benchmarking services to subscribing dental customers through its website. In December 2001, the Company purchased Modern Practice Technologies, a company that provides custom computing solutions to the dental industry. This acquisition helped Patterson to position itself to provide all of the custom hardware and networking required for interfacing the entire dental office. In May 2004, Patterson Dental acquired CAESY Education Systems, Inc., the leading provider of electronic patient education services to dental practices in North America. Headquartered in Vancouver, Washington, CAESY provides dental practices with a range of communications media that educate patients about professional dental care, procedures and treatment alternatives with the goal of influencing patient decisions about dental services and increasing the productivity of the dental professional. Educational materials are communicated through CD/DVD media, computer programs and the dentists web site. These materials can be used within the dental waiting room, at chair side and in the patients home. Products and Services The following table sets forth the sales by principal categories of products and services offered to dental supply customers: 2006 2005 2004 Consumable and printed products 55 % 54 % 57 % Equipment and software 36 37 34 Other (1) 9 9 9 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Consists of other value added products and services including technical service and software maintenance. Consumable and Printed Products Dental Supplies. Patterson offers a broad product line of consumable dental supplies such as x ray film and solutions; impression materials; restorative materials (composites and alloys); hand instruments; sterilization products; anesthetics; infection control products such as protective clothing, gloves and facemasks; paper, cotton and other disposable products; toothbrushes and a full line of dental accessories including instruments, burs, and diamonds. Patterson markets its own private label line of dental supplies including anesthetics, instruments, preventive and restorative products, and cotton and paper products. Compared to most name brand supplies, the private label line provides lower prices for the Companys customers and higher margins for the Company. Printed Office Products. Patterson Dental provides a variety of printed office products, office filing supplies, and practice management systems to office based healthcare providers including dental, veterinary and medical offices. Products include custom printed products, insurance and billing forms, stationery, envelopes and business cards, labels, file folders, appointment books and other stock office supply products. Products are sold through two channels: The Companys dental and veterinary supply sales force Direct mail catalogs distributed to over 100,000 customers several times a year A staff of telemarketing personnel located in Champaign, Illinois supports both channels. Orders are received by telephone, through the mail or electronically from the dental and veterinary distribution order processing system. 8 Table of Contents Equipment and Software Dental Equipment. Patterson Dental is the largest supplier of dental equipment in the U.S. and Canada by a factor of more than two times when compared to its next largest competitor. It offers a wide range of dental equipment products including x ray machines, high and low speed handpieces, dental chairs, dental handpiece control units, diagnostic equipment, sterilizers, dental lights and compressors. The Company also distributes newer technology equipment that provides customers with the tools to improve productivity and patient satisfaction. Examples of such innovative and high productivity products include the CEREC&reg; family of products, a chair side restoration system; digital x rays; and inter oral cameras. Software. Patterson develops and markets its own line of practice management and clinical software for dental professionals. Products include software for scheduling, billing, charting and capture/storage/retrieval of digital images. The Company also sells software products developed by third parties including Sidexis by Sirona and Dimax2 by Planmeca. These value added products are designed to help achieve office productivity improvements, which translate into higher profitability for the customer. Hardware. Patterson Dental offers custom hardware and networking solutions required for integrating the entire dental office. This product offering is available to all of the Companys dental customers. This initiative marked another step in Pattersons overall strategy of providing customers with the convenience and cost effectiveness of a virtually complete range of products and value added services and is one of the newest components of Pattersons single source solution for dental offices. Patient Education Services. With the acquisition of CAESY Education Systems, Inc., Patterson Dental expanded its offering of value added services to include patient education services. These communications tools are designed to influence patient decisions about services in an efficient, cost effective manner. Other Software Services. The Company offers a variety of services to complement its software products such as service agreements, electronic claims processing and billing statement processing. These services provide value to customers by allowing them to keep software products current, or receive payments more rapidly while obtaining greater productivity. Equipment Installation, Repair and Maintenance. To keep their practices running efficiently, dentists require reliable performance from their equipment. All major equipment sold by Patterson includes installation and Pattersons 90 day labor warranty at no additional charge. Patterson also provides complete repair and maintenance services for all dental equipment, whether or not purchased from Patterson, including 24 hour handpiece repair service. In addition to service technicians who provide installation and repair services on basic dental equipment, the Company has also invested in personnel who specialize in installing and troubleshooting issues with technology solutions such as practice management software, digital imaging products, hardware and networking. The goal of this group, which is comprised of both local service technicians and the Patterson Technology Center, is to help customers integrate newer technology into their dental practice. The Patterson Technology Center helps the customer minimize costly downtime by offering a single point of contact for post sale technology related issues. A new technical service tool is being developed that will both enhance customer service as well as reduce costs of the Companys traditional and technology specific service personnel. Dental Office Design. Patterson provides dental office layout and design services through the use of a computer aided design (CAD) program. Equipment specialists can create original or revised dental office designs in a fraction of the time required to produce conventional drawings. Customers purchasing major equipment items receive dental office design services at no additional charge. Equipment Financing. Patterson Dental provides a variety of options to fulfill its customers financing needs. For qualified purchasers of equipment, the Company will arrange financing for the customer through 9 Table of Contents Patterson or a third party. For non equipment related needs, customers are referred to a third party organization. This alternative allows the Company to offer its customers convenience while still meeting their diverse financing needs. In fiscal 2006, the Company originated over $345 million of equipment finance contracts. The Company, or its vendor partner, financed approximately 43% of the equipment purchased by customers during fiscal 2006. Since November 1998, Patterson has also maintained one or more finance referral agreements with an outside finance company to provide a more extensive selection of finance opportunities to its customers. This might include financing for practice transactions, working capital, leasing, real estate and long term capital. Currently this service is provided by HPSC Inc. There are no recourse provisions under this agreement. Patterson receives referral fees under this agreement and HPSC Inc. extends credit and services the accounts. To meet the needs of its customers, Patterson also initiates installment sale contracts that can be sold to either a commercial paper conduit managed by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., or to a group of banks led by U.S. Bank National Association. Patterson created a special purpose entity (SPE), PDC Funding Company, LLC, a wholly owned and fully consolidated subsidiary, and entered into a Receivables Purchase Agreement in order to participate in the commercial paper conduit. The Company transfers installment sale contracts to the SPE. In turn, the SPE sells the contracts to the commercial paper conduit. The capacity under this agreement, as amended, is $440 million of contract purchases. There is no recourse to the Company for contracts purchased by the commercial paper conduit, but there is a holdback by the conduit equal to 10% of the principal of these contracts. The group of banks, led by U.S. Bank, can also purchase the Companys installment sale contracts that are secured by dental equipment, on a limited recourse basis. The contract purchase agreement with the banks allows for a maximum capacity of $110 million. Patterson services the customer contracts under both of the preceding arrangements for which it receives a fee. Sales and Marketing During fiscal 2006, Patterson Dental sold products or services to over 120,000 customers in the U.S. and Canada who made one or more purchases during the year. Patterson Dentals customers include dentists, laboratories, institutions and other healthcare professionals. No single customer accounted for more than 1% of sales during fiscal 2006, and Patterson is not dependent on any single customer or geographic group of customers. The Companys sales and marketing efforts are designed to establish and improve customer relationships through personal interaction with its sales representatives and frequent direct marketing contact, which underscores the Companys value added approach. Patterson Dental has over 90 local offices throughout the U.S. and Canada so that it can provide a presence in the market and decision making near the customer. These offices, or branches, are staffed with a complete complement of Patterson Dental capabilities, including sales, customer service and technical service personnel, as well as a local manager who has broad decision making authority with regard to customer related transactions and issues. The branches are grouped into seven regions in the U.S. and one in Canada. A primary component of Pattersons value added approach is its sales force. Due to the fragmented nature of the dental supply market, Patterson believes that a large sales force is necessary to reach potential customers and to provide full service. Sales representatives provide an informational link to the overall industry; assist practitioners in selecting and purchasing products and help customers efficiently manage their supply inventories. Each representative works within an assigned sales territory under the supervision of a location (branch) manager. Sales representatives are all Patterson employees and are generally compensated on a commission basis, with some, less experienced, representatives receiving a base salary and commission. 10 Table of Contents To assist its sales representatives, Patterson Dental publishes a variety of catalogs and fliers containing product and service information. Dental customers receive a full line product catalog containing over 30,000 inventoried items. The catalog includes pictures of products, detailed descriptions and specifications of products and is utilized by practitioners as a reference source. Selected consumable supplies, new products, specially priced items and high demand items such as infection control products are promoted through merchandise fliers printed and distributed bi monthly to the dental supply market. In addition, dental equipment sold by Patterson is featured in Pattersons tri yearly publication, Patterson Today, which also includes articles on dental office design, trends in dental practice, products and services offered by Patterson and information on equipment maintenance. To enhance the total value it brings to its customers, Patterson Dental created a value added benefit program for its preferred customers. The Patterson PlusSM program entitles its best dental customers to priority technical services, automated supply management systems at no charge, a variety of product discounts and reduced rates on financial products, practice management software and technical services. Distribution Patterson Dental believes that responsive delivery of quality supplies and equipment is a key element to providing complete customer satisfaction. Patterson ships dental consumable supplies from 10 strategically located distribution centers in the U.S. and Canada. Orders for consumable dental supplies can be placed by telephone or electronically 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Printed office products are shipped from the Companys manufacturing facility in Illinois. All orders are routed through Pattersons centralized computer ordering, shipping and inventory management systems, which are linked to each of the Companys strategically located distribution centers. If an item is not available in the distribution center nearest to the customer, the computer system automatically directs shipment of the item from another center. Rapid and accurate order fulfillment is another principal component of the Companys value added approach. Patterson Dental estimates that 98% of its consumable goods orders are shipped to the customer on time, which is generally within 24 hours. In order to assure the availability of Patterson Dentals broad product lines for prompt delivery to customers, Patterson must maintain sufficient inventories at its distribution centers. Purchasing of consumables and standard equipment is centralized and the purchasing department uses a real time perpetual inventory system to manage inventory levels. The Companys inventory consists mostly of consumable supply items. By utilizing its computerized inventory management and ordering systems, the Company is able to accurately predict inventory turns in order to minimize inventory levels for each item. Patterson Dentals more than 90 dental sales offices are generally configured with display areas where the latest dental equipment can be demonstrated. Dental equipment inventory is generally custom ordered and is staged at the Companys sales offices before delivery to dental offices for installation. Sources of Supply Effective purchasing is a key strategy the Company has adopted in order to achieve its objective of continuing to improve profitability. The Company has a program to effectuate electronic data interchange (EDI) with its major vendor partners. In fiscal 2006, the Company processed over 70% of its invoices from dental vendors using EDI capabilities. In addition, 57% of Pattersons dental purchase order volume was conducted employing EDI, which represented 61% of dental purchase order dollars placed during the fiscal year. Utilizing EDI allows the Company to improve efficiencies and reduce administrative costs. Patterson Dental obtains products from approximately 1,100 vendors in the dental segment. Patterson has exclusive distribution agreements with several quality dental equipment manufacturers including Sirona Dental 11 Table of Contents Systems GmbH for the CEREC&reg;, and Schick Technologies, Inc. for digital x rays. In June 2006, Sirona and Schick merged to create Sirona Dental Systems, Inc. This merger did not affect the existing exclusive distribution agreements. The Company is the only national dealer for A dec equipment, including chairs, units and cabinetry. A dec is the largest manufacturer of dental equipment in the U.S. While the Company makes purchases from many suppliers and there is generally more than one source of supply for most of the categories of products sold by the Company, the concentration of business with key suppliers is considerable. The Companys top ten supply vendors accounted for approximately 45% and 52% of the cost of dental products sold in fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively. Of these ten, the top two vendors accounted for 9% and 9%, and 12% and 11% of fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 cost of sales, respectively. Competition The highly competitive U.S. dental products distribution industry consists principally of national, regional and local full service distributors and mail order distributors. The dental supply market is extremely fragmented. In addition to Patterson and one other national, full service firm, Sullivan Schein Dental, a unit of Henry Schein, Inc., there are at least 17 full service distributors that operate on a regional level, and hundreds of small local distributors. Also, some manufacturers sell directly to end users. The Company approaches its markets by emphasizing and delivering a value added model to the practitioner. To differentiate itself from its competition it deploys a strategy of premium customer service, a highly qualified and motivated sales force, experienced service technicians, an extensive breadth and mix of products and services, accurate and timely delivery of product, strategic location of sales offices and distribution centers, and competitive pricing. The Company also experiences competition in Canada in the dental supply market. The principal competitor is a national, full service dental distributor, Henry Schein Ash Arcona, a unit of Henry Schein, Inc. The Company believes it competes in Canada on essentially the same basis as in the United States. Veterinary Supply Overview Webster Veterinary, or Webster, is the leading distributor of veterinary supplies to companion pet (dogs, cats and other common household pets) veterinary clinics in the eastern United States. Management believes Webster is the second largest distributor of companion pet veterinary supplies nationally. In addition, through its fiscal 2005 acquisition of Milburn Distributions, Inc., Webster is the leading national equine distributor in the United States. Webster provides products used for the diagnosis, treatment and or prevention of diseases in companion pets and equine animals. Founded in 1946 and headquartered in Sterling, Massachusetts, Webster has developed a strong brand identity as a value added, full service distributor of a virtually complete range of consumable supplies, equipment, diagnostic supplies, biologicals (vaccines) and pharmaceuticals. Webster does not distribute pet foods. Websters product offering, totaling more than 11,000 items, is sold by approximately 165 field sales representatives. In addition to its core business of distributing veterinary products, Webster has a significant agency commission business with a few large pharmaceutical manufacturers. Under the agency relationships, Webster typically earns a commission for soliciting orders through its sales force. In the agency relationship, Webster processes the order to the manufacturer but handles none of the product nor does Webster bill and collect from the customer. The agency commissions that Webster earns range from 3% to 10%, a portion of which is shared with the direct sales personnel. Websters agency commissions accounted for less than 2% of its net sales in fiscal 2006. Net sales by Webster in fiscal 2006 were $346.1 million. Operating income totaled $18.4 million. The Company estimates the market for pharmaceuticals and supplies sold to companion pet and equine veterinarians through distribution is approximately $2.8 billion on an annual basis. Based upon the estimated 12 Table of Contents $2.8 billion market, the Company believes its share of this market is approximately 13%. Similar to the dental supply market, the veterinary supply market is fragmented and geographically diverse. There are approximately 79,000 veterinarians practicing at 27,000 animal health clinics. The vast majority, approximately 67% of veterinarians, work in private animal health clinics specializing in small animals, predominately companion pets. The average private veterinary practice generates approximately $770,000 of annual revenue. These practices purchase between $80,000 and $120,000 of supplies each year, and similar to the dental practitioner, do not maintain a large supply of inventory on hand. The typical veterinary practice purchases approximately 80% of its supplies from its top two suppliers. The average purchase of consumables by the veterinary practice is noticeably higher than that of the dental practitioner due predominately to pharmaceutical products which are administered and dispensed by veterinarians. According to a market study prepared by KPMG LLP for three veterinary professional organizations in 1999, the demand for veterinary services has historically grown significantly faster than growth in the overall economy. Total expenditures for veterinary services in the United States grew at an inflation adjusted real annual rate of 7.2% from 1980 through 1997, and are projected to grow 5% on a real basis annually, through the year 2015. The companion pet segment is the fastest growing area of the overall U.S. veterinary supply market. The Company believes this growth is sustainable due to the following favorable factors: Number of households with companion pets. The number of households with companion pets is steadily expanding which increases the demand for veterinary services. Today, 63% of U.S. households own a companion pet compared with 56% in 1988. Overall, 45% of all households in the U.S. own more than one pet. Veterinary expenditures per household. The amount pet owners are willing to spend caring for their pets is increasing substantially. The American Pet Products Manufacturers Association estimates that pet owners will spend $38.4 billion in 2006 to care for the American pet population, or $555 per household. This is a 125% increase over the $17 billion spent in 1994. Veterinary products and techniques. Many new therapeutic and preventive products are being developed for the companion pet market. Technological developments have resulted in new innovative veterinary products and advances in veterinary services. Strategy Websters objective is to build a leading national position in the companion pet veterinary market through internal expansion and acquisitions, while continuing to improve its profitability and enhance its value to customers. Its key strategies and priorities for accomplishing this objective are to open new geographic markets, make acquisitions that expand market share, emphasize value added capabilities, consistently improve operating efficiencies and broaden the product offering. Growing Through Internal Expansion and Acquisitions. In April 2004, Webster acquired the assets of ProVet, which was the companion pet veterinary supply division of Lextron, Inc. ProVet was a distributor with locations in Indianapolis, Kansas City, Houston, Denver and Seattle. Management believes this acquisition made Webster the second largest distributor of companion pet veterinary supplies in the U.S. This acquisition added 44 sales representative territories expanding Websters geographic coverage to include the states of Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, Kansas, Oklahoma, Colorado, Nevada, Idaho and Oregon. In addition, the acquisition increased market coverage in Washington state and Texas where Webster already had a presence. In October 2004, Webster acquired Milburn Distributions, Inc., the largest distributor specializing in the U.S. equine veterinary supply market. Milburns annualized sales exceed $50 million. The company operates facilities in Arizona, Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Texas and Florida. Most companion pet and large animal veterinary supply distributors have not successfully served the nations equine veterinarians due to the highly specialized nature of this niche market. Milburn has capitalized on this opportunity by focusing exclusively on the unique needs of equine veterinarians. 13 Table of Contents In fiscal 2006, Webster grew through both an acquisition and greenfield expansion. In December 2005, it acquired Intra Corp., one of the nations leading developers of veterinary practice management software that is marketed under the IntraVet brand name. IntraVet has approximately 1,600 software installations nationwide and furthers Websters strategy of establishing a value added business platform similar to that of Patterson Dental. Also in fiscal 2006, Webster developed business through a program of internal start ups, including operations in Ohio, Michigan and California. The expansion into California, which had been Websters largest unserved market, was particularly successful and made a solid contribution to Websters fiscal 2006 sales results. Further expansion of Websters geographic marketplace is anticipated in the future. Emphasizing Value Added, Full Service Capabilities. Webster believes that veterinary customers value full service and responsive delivery of product, in addition to competitive prices. Customers also increasingly expect suppliers to be knowledgeable about products and services, and generally a superior sales representative can create a special relationship with the practitioner by providing an informational link to the overall industry. Websters knowledgeable sales representatives assist customers in the selection and purchasing of supplies. Most veterinarians are independent, or small unit based, practitioners who are unable to store and manage large volumes of supplies in their offices. Webster meets its customers requirements by delivering frequent, small quantity orders rapidly and reliably from its strategically located distribution centers. Continuing to Improve Operating Efficiencies. Webster continuously pursues opportunities to lower costs and improve efficiencies. This is being done through the sharing of distribution capacity with Pattersons other two business segments and the integration of new and proven systems that improve service levels and can be shared with multiple business segments. A new corporate level officer position was created in early fiscal 2005 in order to identify, implement and manage shared services strategies across all business segments. This process started when the Company created a veterinary version of the eMAGINE&reg; electronic order entry system and began to distribute veterinary products from its Kent, Washington dental distribution center. This strategy continues to be executed, as additional distribution centers are being integrated, are currently under construction, or are being planned, which include capacity for distributing dental as well as veterinary and rehabilitation products. In addition, a new customer system that can be used by multiple business segments but will maintain the same look and feel of the eMAGINE&reg; system was implemented initially in the veterinary supply segment and is now fully deployed within the unit. The new system provides customer support staff with integrated customer information on one screen. Broaden the Product Line. Webster continuously seeks to broaden its portfolio of product offerings to maximize the opportunities within its existing customer base. For example, in the past two years Websters expansion of its product offerings included the entire line of Pfizer Animal Health equine products, Rimadyl&reg; canine analgesic, Vetsulin canine insulin, Continuum small animal vaccines, equine anti inflammatory Surpass&reg;, feline nutraceutical Enisyl F and canine nutraceutical Welactin, Alphatrack blood glucose monitor, Cislak dental instruments, Previcox&reg; canine analgesic, Mometamax otic preparation, Genesis topical spray, SCA2000 blood coagulation analyzer, Polymune equine plasma, Solitude feed through fly preventive, and SNAP Bile Acid diagnostic test. Webster also strives to consistently introduce innovative products. In fiscal 2005, Webster successfully launched its private label initiative to supply veterinary customers with quality consumable goods (exam gloves, sutures, surgical blades and microscope slides) at value prices and this initiative continued in fiscal 2006 with the introduction of various white goods such as gauze, cotton bandages, and cohesive tape. Management believes that product innovation allows Webster to maintain its competitive position and helps fuel internal growth. Management also believes that its emphasis on new product offerings enables its sales force to remain effective in creating demand among veterinarians. Broadening the product line also includes bringing new, innovative services to the customer to allow them to generate greater revenues and profitability from their practice. As Webster continues to expand and build its 14 Table of Contents equipment business, it has added clinic and hospital design capabilities and technical service personnel to install and repair equipment that is sold by Webster as well as by others. With the recent acquisition of the IntraVet software product, new services and revenue opportunities have become possible. In addition, as the equipment and software business grows, more financing transactions should result. Products and Services The following table sets forth the sales by principal categories of products and services offered to veterinary supply customers: 2006 2005 2004 Consumable and printed products 93 % 94 % 94 % Equipment and software 5 4 4 Other 2 2 2 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Consumable and Printed Products Webster offers its customers a broad selection of veterinary supply products including consumable supplies, pharmaceuticals, diagnostics, and biologicals. Consumable supplies distributed by Webster include lab supplies, various types and sizes of paper goods, needles and syringes, gauze and wound dressings, sutures, latex gloves, orthopedic and casting products. Websters pharmaceutical products include anesthetics, antibiotics, injectibles, ointments and nutraceuticals. The diagnostics product category includes on site testing products for heartworm, FIV, FELV and Parvo virus. Biological products are comprised of vaccines and injectibles. Many of the office supply products sold to the dental supply market are also offered to the veterinary supply market. Equipment Webster sells equipment for hospital, laboratory and general surgical use within the veterinary practice. Fiscal 2006 equipment sales increased 49% from fiscal 2005 and accounted for about 5% of veterinary segment sales. Webster offers innovative, quality equipment that differentiates Webster from the competition. New equipment offerings in fiscal 2006 included iM3 Dental stations, ScanX Digital Radiography System, Schick Dental Digital Radiography System, EVA VET Digital Dental X ray System, Sedecal Veterinary X Ray Systems, Min Xray High Frequency Radiology Systems, Image Vet 70ACP Dental X ray unit, Provecta V Mobile Dental X Ray unit, Sunnex Surgical Lights, European Design and Midmark Medical Cabinets. About 50% of veterinary equipment orders are drop shipped directly to the customer, of which 15% are custom ordered from the manufacturer. The balance of veterinary equipment is distributed in a fashion similar to consumable supplies. Other Other products and services include commissions on agency sales and freight recovery on shipments to customers. Sales and Marketing A primary component of Websters value added approach is its sales force. Due to the fragmented nature of the veterinary supply market, Webster believes that a large sales force is necessary to reach potential customers and to provide full service. Sales representatives provide an informational link to the overall industry, assist practitioners in selecting and purchasing products, and help customers efficiently manage their supply inventories. Each representative works within an assigned sales territory under the supervision of a location (branch) manager. Sales representatives are employees and are generally compensated on a commission basis, with some, less experienced, representatives receiving a base salary and commission. 15 Table of Contents To assist its sales representatives, Webster publishes a catalog, which contains approximately 11,000 SKUs. This catalog includes detailed descriptions and specifications of products and is utilized by practitioners as a reference source. Selected consumable supplies, new products, specially priced items and high demand items are promoted through merchandise fliers printed and distributed monthly. During fiscal 2005, Webster released an updated version of its website. Based upon the proven technology of the Patterson Dental website, this new site allows customers the ability to order items 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The website also incorporates value added functions that permit customers to check their invoice, payment and credit history, build a shopping list of frequently purchased items and track their order status. Distribution As of April 29, 2006, the decentralized distribution network in the veterinary supply segment consisted of 12 distribution centers. The distribution network is complemented by telesales representatives who are responsible for processing approximately 70% of customer orders in this segment. In order to meet the rapid delivery requirements of customers, most consumable products are delivered within 24 hours. Webster estimates that approximately 98% of its consumable orders are delivered to the customer on time. During fiscal year 2005, Webster merged its existing Charlotte, North Carolina distribution center into Pattersons new Blythewood, South Carolina distribution facility. In fiscal 2006, Webster merged its Washington state distribution center into a shared distribution center with the dental segment in Kent, Washington. In fiscal 2007, Webster products will begin shipping out of the new, eastern Pennsylvania shared distribution center that opened in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Sources of Supply Webster obtains products from nearly 550 vendors. While Webster makes purchases from many suppliers and there is generally more than one source of supply for most of the categories of products, the concentration of business with key suppliers is considerable. In fiscal 2006 and 2005, Websters top 10 veterinary supply manufacturers comprised 67% and 64%, respectively, and the single largest supplier comprised 19% and 19%, respectively, of the total cost of veterinary supply sales. Competition Within the companion pet market segment, competitors range from small local distributors to large national and regional full service companies, and to a lesser extent, mail order distributors or buying groups. Webster also competes directly with pharmaceutical companies who sell certain products directly to the customer. The Company approaches its markets by emphasizing and delivering a value added model to the practitioner. To differentiate itself from its competition it deploys a strategy of premium customer service, a highly qualified and motivated sales force, an extensive breadth and mix of products and services, accurate and timely delivery of product, strategic location of sales offices and competitive pricing. Rehabilitation Supply Overview Patterson Medical, formerly known as AbilityOne Corporation, is headquartered in Bolingbrook, Illinois and is the worlds leading distributor of rehabilitation medical supplies and non wheelchair assistive products. Patterson Medical believes it offers the most comprehensive range of distributed and self manufactured rehabilitation products to health care professionals globally. Its mission is to provide health care professionals 16 Table of Contents and their patients with access to products that improve peoples lives by helping them to attain their highest achievable level of independence, safety and comfort. Patterson Medical operates as Sammons Preston Rolyan in North America and Homecraft in International markets. Patterson Medical serves as the gateway through which over 23,000 rehabilitation products originating from more than 2,000 suppliers and manufacturers are sold to a diverse customer base with an emphasis on physical therapists (PTs) and occupational therapists (OTs). It offers its customers a one stop shop through what it believes to be the most comprehensive catalog in the industry, one of the largest direct sales forces and the categorys most efficient customer service and distribution operations. Major channels of distribution are acute care hospitals, long term care facilities, rehabilitation clinics, dealers and schools. In addition, Patterson believes Patterson Medicals reputation, global market presence and highly transferable business model will facilitate entry into new markets. Patterson Medical offers a wide range of differentiated, non invasive products and expertise to users and their health care providers, while focusing on niches, worldwide, where its capabilities, reputation and customer partnerships can result in a competitive advantage. Its goal is to become its customers first choice for rehabilitation medical supplies and assistive products in each of its chosen markets. Patterson Medical is highly diversified with no single product, customer or purchasing group representing a significant percentage of total revenue. In addition, given the relatively small average order size (approximately $225), Patterson Medicals products often do not represent a major expense category for its customers. In March 2002, Patterson Medical completed the acquisition of the Smith & Nephew Rehabilitation (SNR) division of Smith & Nephew plc, and in doing so, acquired the Rolyan, Homecraft and Kinetec brand names. The SNR acquisition added 3,500 additional products, as well as a broad array of other brand names and proprietary products. The acquisition of SNR combined the two leading distributors of rehabilitation medical supplies to create what Patterson believes is the only one stop shop in the industry. Patterson Medical manufactures or has exclusively manufactured for it products representing approximately 30% of its total revenue and purchases products representing the remaining 70%. Approximately 80% of its revenue is in North America. Patterson Medical believes the rehabilitation medical supplies and assistive products industry is approximately $4.4 billion in the U.S. and $6.0 billion worldwide and is expected to grow approximately 6% over the next several years. Industry growth is driven by strong growth in the physical and occupational therapy markets and favorable demographic trends associated with the aging of the baby boom generation. Patterson Medical does not compete in wheelchairs or scooters, markets estimated to be a combined $2.0 billion worldwide. Therefore, Patterson Medicals addressable market (defined as the collective market for products sold by Patterson Medical) is approximately $4.0 billion worldwide. Patterson Medical believes that it has an industry leading market share of approximately 5% in a highly fragmented rehabilitation and assistive products market. Patterson Medical believes that the demand for rehabilitation products will continue to be influenced by the following factors: Favorable Demographics. Favorable demographic trends such as extended life expectancy, active lifestyles and a general willingness to spend discretionary income on health care and well being, are expected to contribute to increased demand for products distributed by Patterson Medical. Specifically, the aging baby boomer population, together with their increased disposable income and desire for independence, will fuel product purchases to assist with the frailties associated with old age and provide sustained sales growth. The U.S. Census Bureau has projected the 85 and older population in the U.S. to more than triple from four million in 2000 to 14 million by 2040. The 65 to 84 year old population is expected to more than double during the same time period. Current trends indicate that these age groups represent the majority of home and community based health care patients. 17 Table of Contents The aging of the population is a revenue growth driver because approximately 10% of people over the age of 65 and approximately 50% of people over the age of 85 need assistance with everyday activities. Patterson Medical believes it is well positioned to benefit from this trend by providing aids to daily living, namely dressing devices; toileting, dining, bathing aids; and grooming devices, all of which promote greater patient independence, improved patient responsibility and improved responsiveness to treatment. Increasing Number of PTs and OTs, Patterson Medicals Primary User Groups. According to the U.S. Department of Labor Occupational Outlook Handbook, there were approximately 132,000 PTs and 78,000 OTs in the U.S. in 2000. Approximately two thirds of PTs were employed in either hospitals or offices of physical therapists. The remaining one third of PTs was employed in home health agencies, outpatient rehabilitation clinics, physician offices and nursing homes. The majority of OTs works in hospitals, including many in rehabilitation and psychiatric hospitals. The remaining OTs work in outpatient occupational therapy offices and clinics, schools, home health agencies, nursing homes, community mental health centers, adult day care programs, job training services and residential care facilities. The demand for PTs and OTs is expected to remain strong largely driven by the (i) increase in the number of individuals with disabilities or limited function requiring therapy services; (ii) rapidly growing elderly population which is particularly vulnerable to chronic and debilitating conditions that require therapeutic services; (iii) baby boom generation which is entering the prime age for heart attacks and strokes, increasing the demand for cardiac and physical rehabilitation; (iv) advances in medical technology which permit treatment of more disabling conditions; and (v) widespread interest in health promotion. Increasing Frequency of Reconstructive and Implant Surgery. Another important driver of the growth in the PT market is the growing need for rehabilitation products resulting from the increasing frequency of reconstructive implant procedures, including hip and knee replacements. The worldwide reconstructive implant market is currently in excess of $5.0 billion and expected to grow between 7% and 8% annually. This growth trajectory is largely driven by favorable demographics, as patient populations are expanding at both ends of the age spectrum. Among seniors, more active lifestyles and longer life expectancies are responsible for the increasing frequency of reconstructive implants. Younger patients are opting for reconstructive implants over less invasive alternatives due to improved and longer lasting implant technology. Patterson Medical believes it is well positioned to benefit from the growth in reconstructive implants, by providing orthopedic products, namely Continuous Passive Motion machines and splinting, which are critical to post operatory rehabilitation. International Operations Patterson Medicals international operations are based in the United Kingdom (U.K.) and made up of two divisions: Homecraft in the U.K. and Kinetec in France. The international operations broadly reflect the same business model as used in the North American market. In the U.K., Homecraft operations include sales and marketing, customer service, distribution, purchasing and administration. In France, Kinetec is a self contained manufacturing unit with limited sales and marketing, distribution, administration and purchasing. Homecraft is a leading supplier of aids to daily living (ADL) and rehabilitation products in the U.K., and a significant player in the international markets. Having developed and designed many proprietary products, Homecraft is the prime source for numerous established and market leading ADL brands, including products sold under the Sammons Preston Rolyan brand. The Homecraft catalog offers a broad line of ADL, therapy, rehabilitation and pediatric products containing over 10,000 items. Their catalog is circulated to PTs, OTs, loan equipment stores and private clinics, trade outlets and the general public. Homecrafts central sales and marketing strategy is to provide a one stop shop proposition to hospitals, local government and trade customers throughout the U.K. Customers are reached through a combination of mail order, a 13 person sales force, telemarketing and in market promotional and exhibition activity. 18 Table of Contents Kinetec consists of two operations, the manufacturing and distribution of Continuous Passive Motions machines (CPMs) for sale on a worldwide basis and the sale and distribution of Sammons Preston Rolyan and Homecraft products in France. Products are marketed to customers through product brochures, mailings, tele marketing and a 6 person sales force that covers the French rehabilitation market. Strategy Patterson Medicals objective is to be the customers first choice for rehabilitation medical supplies and non wheelchair assistive products in each of its chosen markets. It intends to grow through internal expansion and acquisitions in both rehabilitation and related products. In the second half of fiscal 2006, a new management team was installed and is responsible for accelerating the units adoption of Pattersons value added strategy. Emphasizing Value Added, Full Service Capabilities. Patterson Medical currently offers its customers a one stop shop for products through their industry leading catalog with over 20,000 items, focused primarily on physical and occupational therapy products. Patterson Medical adds new products each year to its ever expanding catalog and is committed to doing so long term. Consistent with Patterson Medicals current product offering, some of these new products are branded, exclusive or self manufactured. Patterson Medical recognizes that different customer groups have very different economic, product, distribution channel requirements and treatment goals. Patterson Medical proactively attempts to anticipate and flexibly respond to the diverse needs of its customers, while focusing on niches, worldwide, where its capabilities, reputation and customer partnerships can result in a competitive advantage. As such, Patterson Medical foresees an on going evolution of its product offerings to meet the ever increasing demands of its diverse customer segments. Improving Operating Efficiencies. Patterson Medicals proprietary products, which consist of self manufactured products, products manufactured for Patterson Medical and products sold through exclusive distribution arrangements, represent approximately 30% of total revenues. The accelerated adoption of Pattersons value added strategy at this unit will require investments in new sales and marketing programs during fiscal 2007. The Company believes these investments will result in additional sales and operating efficiencies in the future. Growing Through Internal Expansion and Acquisitions. Patterson Medical believes it is well positioned to expand in its core markets. Patterson Medicals market presence, clinical understanding and close customer relationships allow Patterson Medical to anticipate and flexibly respond to the diverse needs of its customers. Patterson Medical believes its market knowledge, strong vendor relationships and manufacturing capabilities will continue to drive the delivery of value added solutions through the continual enrichment of its product mix. Additionally, Patterson Medical believes its broad portfolio of national accounts and commitment to expand its sales force will enhance Patterson Medicals growth and penetration within its current and new customer base. Patterson Medical acquired Homecraft and Kinetec as part of the SNR transaction. Patterson Medical is leveraging this platform to accelerate international expansion, in terms of both product lines and geographic regions. Since the SNR transaction, Patterson Medical has added over 550 pages of new products to the Homecraft catalog. Homecraft and Kinetec brought with them a proven capability to source products at favorable costs and at high levels of quality from China, which has resulted in meaningful cost savings. Patterson Medicals management team believes its business model is transferable to other countries, and is using Homecraft to cultivate new relationships through an enhanced product array, sales effort, distribution capabilities and catalog expertise. In May 2004, Patterson Medical acquired the assets of Medco Supply Company, Inc. (Medco) from NCH Corporation. With sales of nearly $50 million, Medco is one of the nations leading sports medicine distributors and is based in Buffalo, New York. In addition to its sports medicine business, it sells first aid, safety and medical consumable products to commercial and institutional customers, as well as consumable supplies and 19 Table of Contents equipment to podiatrists. The complete product offering includes approximately 10,000 SKUs that are sold through direct mail catalogs and 15 territory sales people. Medco markets to athletic trainers, schools and school nurses, daycare providers and healthcare professionals including podiatrists, chiropractors and physical therapists. Patterson Medical operates in the highly fragmented rehabilitation medical supplies and non wheelchair assistive products industry. Patterson Medicals competition is generally either locally or regionally focused. Patterson Medical intends to opportunistically pursue expansion opportunities in order to add products, customers and capabilities, which will further differentiate Patterson Medical from its competition. Patterson Medical plans to penetrate several new markets. Target markets with significant core business product overlap include chiropractic, podiatry, sports medicine and institutional activities and crafts. These markets are similar to Patterson Medicals core business in that they are characterized by large patient volumes and heavy reliance on the course of treatment advice of the respective professional. Products and Services The following table sets forth the sales by principal categories offered to rehabilitation supply customers: 2006 2005 2004 Consumable and printed products 86 % 85 % 81 % Equipment 9 11 15 Other 5 4 4 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Consumable and Printed Products Patterson Medical offers a large selection of supply products that can be categorized as follows: Aids to Daily Living dressing devices, toileting, dining, bathing aids and grooming devices Orthopedic Soft Goods / Splints braces, splints and orthonics for protecting, supporting and positioning Clinical products that assist in the examination and treatment of patients, such as exercise bands, putty, weights balls and mats Mobility walkers, canes and wheelchair accessories such as gloves, trays and carrying bags Pediatric Seating and Positioning rolls, wedges, specialty seating and standers and mobility assistance products for special needs children. This category also includes sensory motor stimulation products such as toys, crafts and devices to assist with balance. Modalities products for heating and cooling therapies, electrical stimulation, laser, ultrasound, paraffin, iontophoresis and therapeutic creams and lotions Equipment Rehabilitation equipment consists of exercise, examination, treatment and therapy equipment and furniture. These products include parallel bars, treatment tables, mat platforms, treadmills, stationary bicycles and CPMs. Sales and Marketing Its PT and OT customers generally know Patterson Medical as Sammons Preston Rolyan in the U.S. and Canada, and Homecraft in the remainder of the world. The Sammons Preston Rolyan and Homecraft business models, which Patterson Medical employs in the U.S., Canada and the U.K., have driven revenue growth and profitability. 20 Table of Contents A core element of Sammons Preston Rolyans strategy is to maintain the most comprehensive single catalog of rehabilitation products and supplies. The catalog, published for over 50 years, is considered the gold standard of the industry and features the most comprehensive product offering with longstanding industry leading positions and recognized brand names. Patterson Medical has an experienced sales force, national account contracts with major customer groups, unmatched customer service within the industry and the proven ability to introduce new products each year, allowing Patterson Medical to compete across the entire spectrum of the rehabilitation medical supplies and non wheelchair assistive products industry. A key priority in fiscal 2007 will be expanding the sales force, which is currently 149 worldwide. Like the current sales force, new sales representatives will be hired from the ranks of PTs and OTs, manufacturers representatives and others with extensive industry knowledge. Additionally, Patterson Medical will be developing branch offices in fiscal 2007. Much like a dental branch, these offices will have a showroom, commissioned sales staff and service department that provides equipment installation, repair and warranty service for equipment manufacturers. The branch office structure is expected to expand through a combination of internal start ups and dealer/distributor acquisitions. Patterson Medical recently acquired Dale Surgical Professional Supply in a June 2006 transaction. This business will be the platform for a branch operation in the New York metropolitan market. In the Chicago market, a branch operation will be initiated during the summer of calendar 2006 by hiring the needed personnel and combining them with existing sales customer service personnel. Sammons Preston Rolyans national accounts group collaborates with its sales force to meet the changing needs of its expanding account base. The product management group works closely with customers, suppliers and the sales force to evaluate new products for inclusion in Sammons Preston Rolyans product offering. Sammons Preston Rolyan adds approximately 2,500 new products to the catalog each year. Sammons Preston Rolyans U.S. national accounts program is staffed by seasoned professionals who have developed a comprehensive portfolio of contracts. Furthermore, the integrated Sammons Preston Rolyan organization has national contracts with major purchasing groups within each submarket, including hospitals, nursing homes and dealers. For many years, Sammons Preston and SNR had the only national sales forces in the U.S. dedicated to the clinical education and sale of products to institutionally based PTs and OTs. With the acquisition and integration of SNR, Patterson Medicals clinical presence and sales capability have been enhanced with a broader product offering and a more complete range of proprietary brands. The Patterson Medical sales professionals, many whom are therapists, are located throughout the U.S. and Canada. These sales professionals have utilized the extensive product line and the comprehensive national contracts portfolio to establish direct sales to U.S. hospitals, nursing homes and rehab clinics. Patterson Medical also distributes to national distributors and local dealers. The rehabilitation medical supplies and non wheelchair assistive products that Patterson Medical offers are generally not subject to direct reimbursement pressures from Medicare and Medicaid. Patterson Medical does not engage in third party billing and collection activities, but sells to customers, including dealers, who provide this service. The rehabilitation medical supplies and non wheelchair assistive products industry is highly fragmented. No one manufacturer, distributor or customer represents a significant portion of Patterson Medicals revenue. Distribution Patterson Medicals distribution process centers on its ability to fill small unit size and small dollar amount orders. In the U.S., over 5,000 packages ship daily from six locations. The primary distribution center is located 21 Table of Contents in Bolingbrook, IL, with certain high volume product also fulfilled from multi segment facilities within the Patterson distribution network. Approximately 95% of the packages in the U.S. ship via UPS. During fiscal 2007, the distribution operations at the Bolingbrook, IL location will moving to the new, shared services facility located in eastern Pennsylvania that will be shipping products for all three Patterson operating units. Patterson Medicals call center operates from 7am 7pm Monday through Friday, processing in excess of 4,000 calls per day. Order entry capability from 7pm 7am from Monday through Friday and weekends exists through an offsite, third party contractor with limited systems access. The combination of in house staff, supplemented with contracted, third party services, provide customers with 24 hours a day, 7 days a week ordering capabilities. In addition, fax orders and EDI capabilities support the larger, more technologically advanced customers, including dealers, hospitals and long term care facilities. While Internet ordering capabilities currently exist, customer reception to ordering products via the Internet is currently minimal, but growing. Sources of Supply Among Patterson Medicals core strengths is its ability to obtain premier products from vendors. Patterson Medical purchases its products from over 2,000 suppliers and manufacturers. Although no single supplier accounted for more than 4% of Patterson Medicals total purchases in fiscal 2006, Patterson Medical frequently is the largest single customer of these manufacturers. Suppliers view the ability to distribute their products through Sammons Preston Rolyan and Homecraft positively due to reputation, longstanding industry leading position, comprehensive catalogs, national account contracts, sales force presence and distribution capabilities. Patterson Medical continually works at strengthening its supplier relationships through the introduction of supplier programs. Competition Patterson Medical believes it is the only national player to offer one stop shopping to its customers. Patterson Medicals competition is generally highly fragmented, locally or regionally focused and without the product offering necessary to be a one stop shop. Patterson Medicals national and international scale and purchasing power provide Patterson Medical with a favorable cost position and strong pricing trends relative to its competition. Patterson Companies, Inc. For further information on each of the Companys three operating segments, and operations by geographic area, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this document and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Trademarks Patterson has registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office the trademarks Patterson&reg;, PDXpress&reg;, EagleSoft&reg; and eMAGINE&reg;. With the addition of AbilityOne, the Company acquired the marks Sammons, Preston, Roylan, Homecraft and numerous other tradenames and trademarks. The Company believes that the Patterson trademark is well recognized in the dental products industry and by dental professionals, and is therefore a valuable asset of the Company. Employees As of April 29, 2006, the Company had approximately 6,440 employees. Patterson has not experienced a shortage of qualified personnel in the past, and believes that it will be able to attract such employees in the future. None of Pattersons employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements or represented by a union. The Company considers its relations with its employees to be good. 22 Table of Contents Website The Company makes available, free of charge, on its website, its Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. This material may be accessed by visiting the Investor Relations section of the Companys website at www.pattersoncompanies.com. Information relating to corporate governance at Patterson, including our Principles of Business Conduct and Code of Ethics and information concerning our executive officers, directors and Board committees, and transactions in Patterson securities by directors and officers, is available on or through our website www.pattersoncompanies.com under the Corporate Governance and Investor Relations captions. We are not including the information maintained on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, our Annual Report on Form 10 K. Governmental Regulation The marketing, distribution and sale of certain products sold by the Company are subject to the requirements of various federal, state and local laws and regulations. The Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Food and Drug Administration, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the U.S. Department of Transportation. Among the federal laws which impact the Company are the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which regulates the advertising, record keeping, labeling, handling, storage and sale of drugs and medical devices which are distributed by the Company, and which requires the Company to be registered with the Federal Food and Drug Administration; the Safe Medical Devices Act, which imposes certain reporting requirements on the Company in the event of an incident involving serious illness, injury or death caused by a medical device distributed by the Company; and the Controlled Substance Act, which regulates the record keeping, handling, storage and sale of certain drugs sold by the Company, and which requires the Company to be registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration. In addition, the transportation of certain products distributed by the Company that are considered hazardous materials is subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation. The Company also is required to be licensed as a distributor of drugs and medical devices by each state in which it conducts business. In addition, several state Boards of Pharmacy require the Company to be licensed in their state for the sale of animal health products within their jurisdiction. The Company is also subject to the requirements of foreign laws and regulations, which impact the Companys operations in those foreign countries where the Company conducts business. While the Company believes it is in substantial compliance with the laws and regulations which regulate its business, and that it possesses all the licenses required in the conduct of its business, the failure to comply with any of those laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations could negatively impact the Companys business. 23 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant Set forth below is the name, age and position of the executive officers of the Company as of July 7, 2006. James W. Wiltz 61 President and Chief Executive Officer Patterson Companies, Inc. Peter L. Frechette 68 Chairman of the Board Patterson Companies, Inc. R. Stephen Armstrong 55 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Patterson Companies, Inc. Gary D. Johnson 59 Vice President, Operations Patterson Companies, Inc. Lynn E. Askew 43 Vice President, Management Information Systems Patterson Companies, Inc. Jerome E. Thygesen 48 Vice President, Human Resources Patterson Companies, Inc. Scott P. Anderson 39 President Patterson Dental Supply, Inc. Jeffrey H. Webster 44 President Webster Veterinary Supply, Inc. David P. Sproat 39 President Patterson Medical Products, Inc. The officers of the Company are elected annually and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Background of Executive Officers James W. Wiltz was named the Companys Chief Executive Officer in May 2005. Mr. Wiltz had held the position of President and Chief Operating Officer since April 2003. Upon being elected Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Wiltz retained the title of President, however the Company eliminated the Chief Operating Officer position. Mr. Wiltz also served as a Vice President of the Company from 1986 to 2003 and as President of Patterson Dental Supply, Inc., from 1996 to 2003. Patterson has employed him since September 1969, initially as a territory sales representative. Mr. Wiltz was appointed to the Board of Directors in March 2001. Peter L. Frechette was Chief Executive Officer of the Company from September 1982 to May 2005. Mr. Frechette has been a Director of Patterson since March 1983 and was named Chairman of the Board in May 1985. Mr. Frechette served as President of the Company from September 1982 to April 2003. Prior to joining Patterson, Mr. Frechette was employed by American Hospital Supply Corporation for 18 years, the last seven of which he served as President of its Scientific Products Division. R. Stephen Armstrong was elected Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company effective July 1999. Prior to joining Patterson, Mr. Armstrong had been an Assurance Partner with Ernst & Young LLP. Ernst & Young LLP is currently the Companys independent registered public accounting firm. Mr. Armstrong has been a director of Delphax Technologies, Inc. since 2000. Gary D. Johnson was elected Vice President, Operations, Patterson Companies, Inc. in June 2004. Mr. Johnson held the position of Vice President, Sales, of Patterson Dental Supply, Inc. from October 1996 through May 2004. Mr. Johnson has served in various sales and management positions since he joined the Company in August 1981. Lynn E. Askew became Vice President, Management Information Systems, in September 1999. Mr. Askew joined Patterson in 1994 as Manager, Distributed Systems, and was promoted to Director, Systems and Development in 1996. Prior to joining Patterson, Mr. Askew provided advanced technology consulting and project management services to various organizations, including Patterson. Jerome E. Thygesen became our Vice President, Human Resources in March 2006. Prior to joining Patterson, Mr. Thygesen was Vice President, Organizational Development for Fairview Red Wing Health Services from September 2001 to February 2006, and Director of Human Resources for Red Wing Shoe Company from March 1987 to June 2001. 24 Table of Contents Scott P. Anderson was named President of the Companys subsidiary Patterson Dental Supply, Inc., in June 2006. Mr. Anderson most recently held the position of Vice President, Sales of Patterson Dental Supply, Inc. and prior to that was the units Vice President of Marketing. Mr. Anderson joined Patterson in 1993 and was recently elected to the board of directors of the Dental Trade Alliance, the trade association of dental manufacturers, distributors and laboratories. Jeffrey H. Webster has been President of Webster Veterinary Supply, Inc., since its acquisition by Patterson in July 2001. Mr. Webster held various management positions with J. A. Webster, Inc. since 1984. At the time of the acquisition, Mr. Webster was President of J. A. Webster, Inc. David P. Sproat was named President of Patterson Medical Products, Inc. in September 2005. Mr. Sproat joined Patterson Companies in 1997 and has served in various sales and marketing capacities, most recently as Vice President, Sales, of the Patterson Dental Supply, Inc. unit from June 2004 through September 2005. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following list describes several risk factors that are specific to our company. The risk factors described below should be carefully considered, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K and other documents filed with the SEC. We compete in distribution industries that are highly competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully. Our competitors include numerous manufacturers and distributors. Some of our competitors may have different resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. Many of our products are available from several resources and our customers tend to have relationships with several different distributors. Competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. Our failure to compete effectively may limit and or reduce our revenues, profitability and cash flow. Acquisitions of businesses could negatively impact our profitability and return on invested capital. As a part of our business strategy, we have acquired businesses in the ordinary course and expect to continue acquiring businesses in the future. These acquisitions can involve a number of risks and challenges, any of which could cause significant operating inefficiencies and adversely affect our growth and profitability. Such risks and challenges include underperformance relative to our expectations and the price paid for the acquisition; unanticipated demands on our management and operational resources; difficulty in integrating personnel, operations and systems; retention of customers of the combined businesses; assumption of contingent liabilities; and acquisition related earnings charges. Our international operations are subject to risks that could adversely affect our operating results. There are a number of risks inherent in foreign operations, which include regulatory, economic and political requirements and changes. Additionally, foreign operations expose us to foreign currency fluctuations that could impact our results of operations and financial condition based on the movements of the applicable foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. Dollar. Our future operating results can be affected by our relationships with our sales representatives and vendors and manufacturers of products that we distribute. The inability to attract or retain qualified sales personnel or build or maintain relationships with vendors and manufacturers of products that we distribute may have an adverse effect on our business. 25 Table of Contents We sell products that could be subject to market and technological obsolescence. We carry over 100,000 different product stock keeping units. Some of these products are subject to technological obsolescence that may not be within our control since we do not manufacture the products. If we were no longer able to sell these products due to customers making decisions not to buy them, we may have to record expense related to the diminution in value of inventories we have in stock that would adversely impact our operating results. Audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities. We are subject to a variety of litigation that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to a variety of litigation incidental to our business, including claims for damages arising out of the use of products we distribute, claims relating to intellectual property matters, and claims involving employment matters. We are also subject to securities litigation. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our managements attention, we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. Sales of dental equipment can significantly fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Sales of dental equipment can experience large fluctuations from quarter to quarter and future sales patterns of equipment are difficult to predict. Such fluctuations can adversely affect our operating results. An equipment purchase generally represents a significant capital expenditure for a dental practitioner and reflecting this significance, there is a generally long lead time associated with such purchases. Other factors that can cause fluctuations in the sale of dental equipment include product availability; timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; timing of the introduction of new or improved products; general economic conditions; changes in the tax code; and changes in technology. Our compensation strategy includes a substantial amount of targeted incentive compensation. Actual incentive compensation awarded can be significantly different from year to year. Our compensation strategy includes a substantial amount of targeted incentive compensation. Incentive compensation amounts awarded are based on financial and or operational goals of individual business units and or the consolidated Company. Incentive compensation expense for any year can vary within a significant range based on the actual results as compared to the applicable goals. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired. Our balance sheet includes goodwill and other intangible assets. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, if impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in the period of such determination. We are exposed to the risk of an increase in interest rates. Our balance sheet includes variable rate long term debt and certain non current assets that are sensitive to movements in short term interest rates. The variable rates are comprised of LIBOR plus a spread and reset on certain dates, as prescribed by the respective agreements. 26 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved comments from the staff of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of fiscal 2006. Item 2. PROPERTIES The Company owns its principal executive offices in St. Paul, Minnesota, and the majority of its distribution and manufacturing facilities. Leases of other distribution, manufacturing and administrative facilities generally are on a long term basis, expiring at various times, with options to renew for additional periods. Most sales offices are leased for varying and usually shorter periods, with or without renewal options. The Company believes its properties are in good operating condition and are suitable for the purposes for which they are being used. Corporate Effective at the beginning of fiscal 2007, the majority of assets used to distribute product that were previously owned and operated by individual business units were transferred to a wholly owned subsidiary of Patterson Companies, Inc. The new entity, Patterson Logistics Services, Inc., will operate the distribution function for the benefit of all three of the sales and marketing business units. The discussion that follows describes the former ownership of the assets prior to this change. Dental Supply Patterson Dental had 10 dental distribution centers as well as a location used to manufacture and ship printed office products. These facilities are located in California, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, South Carolina, Pennsylvania, Texas, Washington and Quebec and Alberta, Canada. The total size of this distribution space is approximately 900,000 square feet, of which 90% is owned. These locations include shared distribution centers. Webster Veterinary stocks and ships product from the South Carolina and Washington distribution centers. Patterson Medical is currently sharing space in the California, Florida, and Texas distribution centers. In fiscal 2007, both Webster Veterinary and Patterson Medical will share space with Patterson Dental at the Pennsylvania location. The dental supply segment is headquartered in the Companys principal executive offices. This segment also maintains sales and administrative offices inside the United States at approximately 90 locations in over 40 states and at 10 locations in Canada. Substantially all of these locations are leased. Veterinary Supply Headquartered in Sterling, Massachusetts, Webster Veterinary had 12 veterinary distribution centers totaling over 300,000 square feet. Sales and administrative personnel for the veterinary segment generally reside within the distribution facilities. These facilities are located in Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Florida, Texas, Alabama, Missouri, Colorado, Kentucky, Arizona and Indiana and the majority of these facilities are leased. Additionally, product is now shipping from shared distribution centers in South Carolina and Washington, and will begin shipping in fiscal 2007 from a shared location in Pennsylvania. Rehabilitation Supply Patterson Medical is headquartered in Bolingbrook, Illinois, and owns or leases approximately 450,000 square feet at 12 facilities worldwide. Approximately half of the total facility space is dedicated to distribution, a third is allocated to manufacturing and the balance is for sales and administrative offices. The Company owns approximately 70% of the total space utilized. Domestically, the rehabilitation supply segment maintains facilities in Illinois, Wisconsin, South Carolina, and New York. Only the domestic distribution facilities in 27 Table of Contents Illinois and New York were transferred to Patterson Logistics Services, Inc. Internationally, this segment has facilities located in the U.K., France and Canada. In addition, high volume product is stocked and shipped from three shared distribution centers. In fiscal 2007, product will begin shipping from a shared location in Pennsylvania. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Five purported class action lawsuits have been filed in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, naming the Company and certain officers and directors and alleging certain violations of the federal securities laws. On August 31, 2005, the Court entered an order consolidating the cases into a single action captioned In re Patterson Companies, Inc. Securities Litigation docketed as File No. 05cv1757 DSD/NMJ. On September 16, 2005, a derivative lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota captioned Vance Cadd, Derivatively On Behalf of Patterson Companies, Inc. vs. James W. Wiltz, et al., docketed as File No. 05 cv 02155 RHK/AJB. This lawsuit names certain officers and directors of the Company as defendants and alleges breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment. On October 11, 2005, a class action lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota captioned Tamara Dolliver, On Behalf of Herself and All Others Similarly Situated vs. Patterson Companies, Inc., et al docketed as File No. 05 cv 02383 JNE/SRN. This class action lawsuit was brought on behalf of the participants in the Companys Employee Stock Ownership Plan against the Company and certain officers and directors, and alleges violations of the federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act. The Cadd and Dolliver cases are predicated on essentially the same factual allegations alleged in, and are related cases to, the class action lawsuits consolidated as In Re Patterson Companies, Inc. Securities Litigation. Because of the status of the proceedings in these lawsuits, as well as the contingencies and uncertainties associated with litigation, it is not possible to predict the exposure that the Company will have, if any, in connection with the claims. The Company believes that the allegations made against it in these lawsuits are without merit and is vigorously defending the claims. The Company has also been involved in various product related and employment related legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Some of these proceedings involve product liability claims arising out of the use of dental products manufactured by third parties and distributed by the Company. The Company believes that if any such product liability cases were determined in favor of the claimants, the manufacturers of such products would have primary responsibility for any damages because Patterson is a distributor of finished goods manufactured by third parties. In the event a manufacturer of a defective product is unable to pay a judgment for which the Company may be jointly liable, the Company could have liability for the entire judgment. Since May 1985, the Company has maintained product liability insurance coverage for any potential liability for claims arising out of products sold by the Company. The Company believes that any liabilities which might result from claims relating to events occurring after May 1985, would be adequately covered by such insurance and that any unfavorable results in such cases would not have a material adverse effect on the Companys business or financial condition. With respect to claims relating to events occurring prior to May 1985, the agreement providing for the acquisition of Patterson from The Beatrice Companies, Inc. provides that Beatrice and its successors are obligated to indemnify the Company for losses exceeding a litigation reserve established at the time of the acquisition. To date, the successor to Beatrice has not been asked to indemnify the Company regarding any matters. Although the Company has insurance coverage for product liability claims relating to events occurring after May 1985 and may be entitled to indemnification from third parties under certain circumstances, any additional litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business or financial condition in the future. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS There were no matters submitted to a vote of the Companys shareholders during the three month period ended April 29, 2006. 28 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The Companys common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market&reg; under the symbol PDCO. On September 14, 2004, the Companys Board of Directors declared a 2 for 1 stock split of the Companys common stock in the form of a 100% stock dividend, payable on October 22, 2004. As a result, all share and per share amounts have been restated to reflect the stock split. The following table sets forth the range of high and low sale prices for the Companys common stock for each full quarterly period within the two most recent fiscal years. Such quotations reflect inter dealer prices, without retail mark up, mark down or commission, and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. High Low Fiscal 2006 First Quarter $ 53.85 $ 40.85 Second Quarter $ 44.70 $ 37.71 Third Quarter $ 43.15 $ 32.00 Fourth Quarter $ 36.97 $ 32.26 High Low Fiscal 2005 First Quarter $ 39.10 $ 34.38 Second Quarter $ 39.01 $ 36.21 Third Quarter $ 46.16 $ 36.97 Fourth Quarter $ 52.30 $ 45.81 On July 7, 2006, the number of holders of record of common stock was 3,410. The transfer agent for the Companys common stock is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., 161 North Concord Exchange, South St. Paul, Minnesota, 55075 0738, telephone: (651) 450 4064. The Company has not paid any cash dividends on its common stock since its initial public offering in 1992 and expects that for the foreseeable future it will follow a policy of retaining earnings in order to finance the continued development of its business. Payment of dividends is within the discretion of the Companys Board of Directors and will depend upon the earnings, capital requirements and the operating and financial condition of the Company, among other factors. For information relating to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans, see Part III, Item 12. The Company did not repurchase any of its common stock during fiscal 2006. 29 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (In thousands, except per share amounts) Fiscal Year Ended April 29, 2006 April 30, 2005 April 24, 2004 April 26, 2003 April 27, 2002 April 28, 2001 April 29, 2000 April 24, 1999 April 25, 1998 April 26, 1997 Statement of Operations Data: Net sales $ 2,615,123 $ 2,421,457 $ 1,969,349 $ 1,656,956 $ 1,415,515 $ 1,156,455 $ 1,045,883 $ 883,268 $ 782,284 $ 691,779 Cost of sales 1,700,694 1,558,946 1,267,005 1,082,370 921,335 747,301 678,766 571,698 505,069 455,967 Gross margin 914,429 862,511 702,344 574,586 494,180 409,154 367,117 311,570 277,215 235,812 Operating expenses (2) 591,417 560,375 459,844 395,638 347,000 294,039 269,658 234,098 212,833 184,627 Operating income 323,012 302,136 242,500 178,948 147,180 115,115 97,459 77,472 64,382 51,185 Other income net (2) (6,039 ) (8,689 ) (2,980 ) 7,454 5,043 7,081 5,540 2,239 1,324 1,119 Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change 316,973 293,447 239,520 186,402 152,223 122,196 102,999 79,711 65,706 52,304 Income taxes 118,548 109,749 90,055 70,082 56,933 45,721 38,527 29,815 24,937 19,687 Income before cumulative effect of accounting change $ 198,425 $ 183,698 $ 149,465 $ 116,320 $ 95,290 $ 76,475 $ 64,472 $ 49,896 $ 40,769 $ 32,617 Diluted earnings per share (1)(2) $ 1.43 $ 1.32 $ 1.08 $ 0.85 $ 0.70 $ 0.56 $ 0.48 $ 0.37 $ 0.31 $ 0.25 Weighted average shares and potentially dilutive shares outstanding (1) 139,234 138,873 137,768 136,894 136,402 135,526 135,088 133,986 132,650 130,758 Dividends per common share Balance Sheet Data: Working capital $ 437,727 $ 470,439 $ 507,145 $ 422,093 $ 331,413 $ 310,046 $ 238,502 $ 187,952 $ 133,256 $ 96,893 Total assets 1,911,718 1,685,301 1,588,957 823,978 718,376 549,180 451,976 373,250 316,373 255,311 Total debt 300,041 321,557 499,587 274 976 990 1,719 2,097 7,202 10,792 Stockholders equity 1,242,521 1,015,072 801,758 633,686 514,360 408,515 330,470 265,199 210,303 163,662 See the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 1. Amounts are adjusted for two for one stock splits on September 14, 2004 and June 13, 2000 and a three for two stock split on January 12, 1998. 2. Reflects the adoption of FASB Statement No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets in fiscal year 2003. Had this standard been adopted at the beginning of fiscal 1997, income in fiscal years 1997 through 2002 would have been positively impacted by no more than $0.02 per diluted share. 30 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview The Companys fiscal 2006 financial information is summarized in this Managements Discussion and Analysis, the Consolidated Financial Statements, and the related Notes. The following background is essential to more fully understand the Companys financial information. Patterson operates a distribution business in three complementary markets: dental supply, veterinary supply and rehabilitation supply. Historically the Companys strategy for growth focused on internal growth and the acquisition of smaller distributors and businesses offering related products and services to the dental market. In fiscal 2002, the Company expanded its strategy to take advantage of a parallel growth opportunity in the veterinary supply market by acquiring the assets of J. A. Webster, Inc. on July 9, 2001. The Company added a third component to its business platform in fiscal 2004 when it entered the rehabilitation supply market with the acquisition of AbilityOne Products Corp. (AbilityOne) on September 12, 2003. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for more on this transaction. AbilityOne is now known as Patterson Medical Products, Inc. (Patterson Medical). The historical operating performance of the veterinary supply and rehabilitation supply businesses are somewhat different than the dental supply business. The veterinary business generates gross margin percentages in the low to mid 20s compared to the mid 30s for dental. The operating expense rate is also lower in the veterinary business than in the dental business. The rehabilitation business generates higher gross margins than the dental business, producing gross margin in the low to mid 40s. There are several important aspects of the Companys business, including: (1) market growth in the various markets in which it operates; (2) internal growth; (3) growth through acquisition; and (4) continued focus on controlling costs and enhancing efficiency, that are useful in analyzing the Company. Management defines internal growth as the increase in net sales from period to period, excluding the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, and the net sales, for a period of twelve months following the transaction date, of businesses that it has acquired. With these factors in mind, management has established certain operating objectives, which include increasing net sales four percentage points faster than the average market growth rate and improving operating margins by 50 basis points annually. The Company did not achieve its objectives related to net sales growth and expansion of operating margins in fiscal 2006 due to several factors including slower than anticipated growth in dental equipment sales, the impact of an acquisition in the dental business, and lower than expected operating results from its rehabilitation segment. Actions to improve the equipment growth rate were implemented in the second quarter of fiscal 2006, but due to the nature of this aspect of the business, the impacts of the actions did not begin to manifest themselves until the fourth quarter. The Accu Bite acquisition had an adverse affect on consolidated margins, as Accu Bite had lower operating margins than the Companys traditional dental business. Accu Bite operated a low margin tele sales business which the Company continued to operate until May 2006. In response to the operating results at Patterson Medical, the Company put a new management team into place during the second half of fiscal 2006. The new management team has largely completed a strategic appraisal of Patterson Medicals operations. Supported by this evaluation, a number of strategies are being implemented, including new sales and marketing programs. The Company is committing a portion of its fiscal 2007 operating leverage improvement to investments in the sales and marketing organization at Patterson Medical, which will entail a significant expansion of the sales force as well as other marketing initiatives. 31 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes the consolidated results of operations over the past three fiscal years as a percent of sales: 2006 2005 2004 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 65.0 % 64.4 % 64.3 % Gross margin 35.0 % 35.6 % 35.7 % Operating expenses 22.6 % 23.1 % 23.4 % Operating income 12.4 % 12.5 % 12.3 % Other income, net 0.2 % 0.2 % 0.3 % Interest expense 0.5 % 0.6 % 0.4 % Income before taxes 12.1 % 12.1 % 12.2 % Income taxes 4.5 % 4.5 % 4.6 % Net income 7.6 % 7.6 % 7.6 % Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Net Sales. Net sales for the year ended April 29, 2006 totaled $2,615.1 million, an 8.0% increase from $2,421.5 million reported for the previous year. The Company utilizes a fifty two, fifty three week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in April. Due to the Companys fiscal year policy, fiscal 2005 included an additional or fifty third week as compared to fiscal 2006. The Company estimates the additional week in fiscal 2005 had a one to two percentage point adverse impact on the growth rate in fiscal 2006. Sales of our largest business unit, dental supply, increased 7.2%. Excluding the impact of the Accu Bite acquisition and favorable foreign currency exchange translation related to our Canadian operations, sales grew approximately 4% in fiscal 2006. Sales of dental consumable supplies experienced strong growth of 9.5%. Excluding the 4.1 percentage point impact to growth from the Accu Bite acquisition, and considering the additional week in fiscal 2005, consumables growth was on the high end of our of estimated market growth rate of 5% to 7%. Equipment sales growth of 3.7% was below historic norms. In the second half of fiscal 2006, programs were implemented to improve the sluggish sales performance for basic equipment, such as chairs, units, cabinetry and lights, back to more historic growth rates. These programs contributed to a stronger performance in the fourth quarter and the Company believes this progress will continue in fiscal 2007. With respect to new technology equipment, digital radiography continues to see significant practitioner demand and related sales grew 2X% compared to fiscal 2005. The Company believes its single source approach to this technology, its access to the leading vendors products and an estimated market penetration of only 25% bodes well for another strong contribution by digital radiography to our equipment business in fiscal 2007. Sales of the CEREC&reg; 3D dental restorative system were virtually unchanged from fiscal 2005. The Company expects to grow CEREC sales during fiscal 2007 and is confident this technology will continue to penetrate the ranks of general practitioners. Sales of other services and products, including parts, technical service, software support and insurance e claims, grew 8.2% in fiscal 2006. Sales at the Webster Veterinary unit grew 18.6% to $346.1 million from $292.0 million. The impact from the October 2004 Milburn and December 2005 IntraVet acquisitions was approximately $24.7 million, or 8.5 percentage points of the growth. Websters sales growth was strong throughout the year and was complemented by several factors. First, the business began its greenfield expansion into the large California market, which 32 Table of Contents represents its most successful greenfield initiative to date. Second, for the past few years, Webster has been laying the groundwork for expanding its position in the equipment market and this growing emphasis improved its results. Equipment sales for the year grew 49% from fiscal 2005. The Company believes equipment, in conjunction with the recently acquired IntraVet software product line, is an excellent, long term opportunity for the veterinary unit. Finally, another source of growth in fiscal 2006 sales was new pharmaceutical distribution agreements, including a canine pain medication previously sold direct by the manufacturer. Patterson Medicals sales growth was 2.3%. An improvement in North American sales was partly offset by a decline in sales of the overseas operations. In the second half of fiscal 2006, a new management team was put in place. Now responsible for driving stronger operating results, new management has planned a range of strategic initiatives that are being put into place. Late in the third quarter, a small, non core portion of the segment was sold which also negatively impacted the growth rate of sales. Gross Margin. Consolidated gross margin declined 60 basis points in fiscal 2006 to 35.0%. Sales from the Webster Veterinary unit made up a larger portion of sales in fiscal 2006 due to its strong sales growth. Because gross margin at the veterinary unit is lower than both the dental and rehabilitation units, the units sales growth had a dilutive effect on consolidated gross margin. The dental units gross margin decrease of nearly 50 basis points was largely due to the acquisition of Accu Bite. Acquired territory sales representatives were integrated within existing Patterson branches, however, Accu Bite also had a telesales operation that was not integrated and produced substantially lower gross margins than the traditional dental sales operations. The telesales business was shutdown in early May of 2006, however, it did operate from the September 2005 date of acquisition through the end of fiscal 2006. The gross margin of the veterinary business was virtually unchanged. A full year of Milburn operations, which carry lower margins than the historical Webster business, was included in fiscal 2006 results compared to approximately six months in fiscal 2005 and negatively impacted the overall gross margin of the unit. However, this impact was largely offset by the sales growth of equipment and software, which carry higher margins than the rest of the units product offerings. Patterson Medicals gross margin fell 100 basis points, largely due to sales mix, including lower sales levels of the overseas operations, which have carried higher gross margins than the North American operations. Operating Expenses. The consolidated operating expense ratio decreased to 22.6%, down 50 basis points from 23.1% a year ago. The dental segment experienced a 30 basis point decrease, reflecting operating leverage on additional sales and reduced incentive compensation. This improvement was partially offset by costs associated with the integration of the Accu Bite acquisition. The veterinary segment also improved its operating expense ratio by 30 basis points, due primarily to operating leverage on improved sales. Costs associated with the initial expense structure of the California greenfield expansion somewhat offset this improvement. The operating expense ratio at Patterson Medical declined by 170 basis points due to lower levels of amortization of intangibles. Consolidated amortization expense in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 was $7.0 million and $12.2 million, respectively. The $5.2 million decrease was due primarily to amortization on certain intangible assets related to the acquisition of Patterson Medical, some of which were being amortized on an accelerated basis due to their period of benefit. Operating Income. Operating income increased 6.9% and decreased 10 basis points as a percent of sales. As discussed above, consolidated gross margins declined 60 basis points, while the consolidated operating expense ratio improved 50 basis points. 33 Table of Contents Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased from $15.1 million to $13.4 million. The average debt balance carried in fiscal 2006 was lower than in fiscal 2005 because the Company paid down substantial amounts of debt near the end of fiscal 2005. However, in November 2005, an interest rate swap on $100 million of variable rate debt terminated. This swap had existed throughout all of fiscal 2005 and under the terms of the agreement, the Company effectively paid a low, fixed rate on the variable rate debt. Due to the termination of the swap agreement and rising interest rates, the Company experienced a higher weighted average interest rate in fiscal 2006 and was not able to recognize significantly lower levels of interest expense as compared to fiscal 2005. Other Income, net. Other income, net of other expenses, was consistent year over year. Composed primarily of finance interest income in both years, net other income was $7.3 million in fiscal 2006 compared to $6.5 million in fiscal 2005 resulting primarily from the growth of the business. Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 37.4% in both fiscal years 2006 and 2005. The Companys effective tax rate is higher than the statutory federal rate primarily because of state, local and international taxes the Company must pay. Earnings Per Share. Earnings per share increased to $1.43, up $0.11 or 8% from the $1.32 earnings per share reported in fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Net Sales. Net sales for the year ended April 30, 2005 totaled $2,421.5 million, a 23.0% increase from $1,969.3 million reported for the previous year. Fiscal 2005 included an extra, or fifty third week as compared to fiscal 2004, which included fifty two weeks. The Companys fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of April each year. The estimated impact of the extra week contributed 1.7 percentage points of the fiscal 2005 sales growth. Sales of our largest business unit, dental supply, increased 13.5%. Excluding the impact of the extra week, foreign currency exchange translation related to our Canadian operations, and the acquisition of CAESY, sales grew 11.5% in fiscal 2005. Sales of dental consumable supplies experienced strong growth of 8.9%. After the estimated impact of the extra week, consumables sales rose approximately 7%, which is on the high end of our estimated market growth of 5% to 7%. Sales of equipment and related software within this business unit continued to be a principal sales growth driver, improving by 21.5%. While sales growth was seen across various equipment categories, demand for new technology equipment was particularly robust, with sales of the CEREC&reg; 3D dental restorative system up 39% for the year, while sales of digital radiography systems, including related software and hardware, rose 31%. Sales of other services and products, consisting primarily of parts, technical service, software support and insurance e claims, grew 11.1%. The increase in veterinary supply sales of 38.5% included contributions from the acquisitions of ProVet in late fiscal 2004 and Milburn in October 2004, as well as the impact of an extra week. Two other factors affected the comparability of sales between fiscal years 2005 and 2004. First, ProHeart 6, an injectable heartworm medication, was voluntarily recalled by its manufacturer in September 2004. This recall resulted in lost revenues of approximately $6 million in fiscal 2005. Second, a temporary pharmaceutical distribution agreement was in place during fiscal 2004 until the third quarter, at which time the agreement was converted to an agency arrangement, resulting in lower sales. This agency arrangement remained the same for the balance of fiscal 2004 and for all of fiscal 2005. Excluding the impact of the acquisitions, extra week, ProHeart 6 recall and distribution agreement conversion, net sales increased 7.8% in the veterinary supply business. The September 2003 acquisition of Patterson Medical resulted in the creation of the rehabilitation supply business unit which contributed sales of $142.3 million in fiscal 2004. With a full year of operations, as well as 34 Table of Contents the acquisition of Medco, revenues more than doubled to $295.3 million in fiscal 2005. On a pro forma basis, as if the acquisition of Patterson Medical was effective at the beginning of fiscal 2004, and excluding the estimated impact of the extra week, foreign currency translation related to foreign operations, and the Medco acquisition, sales grew by 8.7%. Gross Margin. Gross margin declined 10 basis points in fiscal 2005 to 35.6%. The Company did experience a sequential improvement each quarter after the first in fiscal 2005, including a 50 basis point improvement between the third and fourth quarter. In fiscal 2005, dental supply gross margins increased 20 basis points reflecting favorable product mix, including the newly acquired CAESY product offerings. Gross margin decreases in the other business units offset the improvement in the dental unit. There are continuing pricing pressures within the veterinary supply market that are affecting margins. Additionally, the recent acquisitions of ProVet and Milburn carry lower gross margin than the traditional Webster business. Patterson Medicals gross margin decline is attributable largely to a shift in product mix. Operating Expenses. The consolidated operating expense ratio decreased to 23.1%, down 30 basis points from 23.4% a year ago. The dental ratio improved 40 basis points, reflecting operating leverage on additional sales. The veterinary segment experienced an increase in its operating expense ratio of 1.2 percentage points, as the recent acquisitions, which had higher cost structures than the traditional Webster business, have been assimilated into the segments existing structure. Patterson Medicals operating expense ratio increased 40 basis points. Contributing to the increase in the expense ratio were additional catalog costs, including costs related to the Medco business acquired in May 2004, and additional amortization expense. Consolidated amortization expense in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 was $12.2 million and $7.2 million, respectively. The $5 million increase was due primarily to amortization on certain intangible assets related to the acquisition of Patterson Medical, some of which are being amortized on an accelerated basis due to their period of benefit. Also, a non compete agreement of approximately $0.7 million was written off in the third quarter of fiscal 2005. Operating Income. Operating income increased 24.6% and improved 20 basis points as a percent of sales. A full year of operations from Patterson Medical and improved operating leverage in the dental segment were the primary drivers of the operating margin improvement. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased from $9.6 million to $15.1 million as a result of the mid fiscal 2004 debt financing related to the acquisition of Patterson Medical. The Company paid down substantial amounts of debt during the year. However much of this debt could not be paid until late in the year based on terms of the agreements. Thus, fiscal 2005 interest expense was not significantly affected by the debt retirements. Other Income, net. Other income, net of other expenses, was consistent year over year. Composed primarily of finance interest income in both years, net other income was $6.5 million for fiscal 2005 compared to $6.6 million for fiscal 2004. Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate in fiscal 2005 was 37.4%, a slight decrease from 37.6% in fiscal 2004. The decrease was due to the addition of the foreign operations of Patterson Medical, particularly in the U.K. The U.K. operations caused the estimated annual effective tax rate to decline since the tax rates in the U.K. were less than in the United States during the year. Earnings Per Share. Earnings per share increased to $1.32, up $0.24 or 22% from the $1.08 earnings per share reported in fiscal 2004. 35 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Pattersons operating cash flow has been the Companys principal source of liquidity in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, supplemented in fiscal 2004 by the issuance of $500 million of debt. Cash generated from operating activities was invested in working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. Operating activities generated cash of $164.0 million in fiscal 2006 compared with $207.3 million in fiscal 2005 and $197.7 million in fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2006, the Company did not sell approximately $30 million of short duration finance contracts that were generated as a part of its traditional calendar year end financing programs. These contracts have an average maturity of less than 24 months and will generate interest income at rates approximating what cash would earn, thus the Company elected not to incur the administrative expense of selling these contracts. Had these contracts been sold, cash from operations would have been approximately $200 million. Capital expenditures net of dispositions were $49.2, $31.5 and $19.6 million in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase in 2005 over 2004 reflected spending on a new building for the printed office products division as well as a shared distribution center in South Carolina, which was one of the first major expenditures related to the distribution realignment under the Companys shared services initiative. In fiscal 2006, the Company continued to execute its plan of distribution realignment, including expenditures for a shared distribution center in Kent, Washington and another in eastern Pennsylvania. In addition, fiscal 2006 included expenditures for a new distribution facility for the Patterson Medical operations in the U.K. The Company expects to invest approximately $30 million in capital expenditures during fiscal 2007. These funds will be used to exercise the purchase option of the Kent, WA facility, and the renovation and upgrading of two additional distribution facilities in the U.S. and Canada. The Company will continue the expansion of its information systems. Cash used for acquisitions totaled $39.2 million in fiscal 2006, including Accu Bite and IntraVet. In fiscal 2005, the Company used $72.9 million of cash for acquisitions, including Medco, CAESY and Milburn. In fiscal 2004, the Company used $606.4 million of cash for acquisitions, namely Patterson Medical and ProVet. The acquisition of Patterson Medical was initially debt financed through a $500 million bridge loan. In November 2003, the bridge loan was converted into two permanent debt financing arrangements as more fully described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. A cash payment of $100 million was made to Sirona Dental Systems GmbH (Sirona) in fiscal 2006, representing a distribution fee that extends the Companys exclusive North American distribution agreement of Sironas CEREC equipment for a ten year period beginning in October 2007. The Company did not repurchase any of its common stock in fiscal years 2006, 2005 or 2004, but does have authorization from the board of directors to repurchase up to six million shares. This authorization expires September 30, 2009. Management continues to expect funds generated from operations and existing cash and short term investments to be sufficient to meet the Companys working capital needs for the next fiscal year. The Company will continue to obtain liquidity from the sale of its equipment finance contracts. Payments on long term debt, substantially all of which were scheduled quarterly payments on the Companys term loan, were $20 million in fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2005, the Company paid down the full $50 million balance outstanding on a revolving credit facility that existed at the end of fiscal 2004. An amount of $200 million is available to the Company under this revolving credit facility until November 2008. Additionally, in April 2005, the Company made a prepayment of $100 million on its floating rate debt and an additional $5 million payment over and above the scheduled amortization on its term loan. Scheduled quarterly amortization on the term loan for the year totaled $20 million. For fiscal 2007, $70 million of fixed rate private notes and $20 million of additional bank term loan repayments are scheduled. 36 Table of Contents The Companys short term and long term facilities are believed to be adequate as a supplement to internally generated cash flows to fund anticipated expansion plans and strategic initiatives. Future debt prepayments will depend on managements views with respect to interest rates together with the investment needs of the business at the time. The Company sells a significant portion of its installment sale contracts to a commercial paper funded conduit managed by a third party bank, and as a result, commercial paper is indirectly an important source of liquidity for the Company. The Company is allowed to participate in the conduit due to the quality of its finance contracts and its financial strength. Cash flow could be impaired if the Companys financial strength diminished to a level that precluded the Company from taking part in this facility or other similar facilities. The Companys financing business is described in further detail in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations During fiscal 2004, the Company entered into two new debt financing arrangements, including both bank and private debt with a total capacity of $650 million. The bank portion of the package totaled $300 million and was comprised of a $100 million five year, amortizing term loan and a $200 million five year, revolving credit facility. The private debt was a total of $350 million of fixed and floating rate notes with maturities ranging from 3 to 7 years with one year, no call provisions. The Company had two primary objectives in placing this debt: one, to lower its overall cost of capital, and two, to provide significant flexibility in financing the growth of the business. Approximately $200 million of capacity under the bank arrangement remains for future use. A summary of the Companys contractual obligations as of April 29, 2006 follows (in thousands): Payment due by year Contractual Obligations Total Less than1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than5 years Long Term Debt $ 300,041 $ 90,027 $ 210,014 Operating Leases 51,728 12,231 20,431 $ 13,716 $ 5,350 For a more complete description of our contractual obligations, please see Notes 7 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Outlook Over the last ten years, the Company has been able to grow revenue and earnings through its strategy of emphasizing its value added, full service capabilities, using technology to enhance customer service, continuing to improve operating efficiencies, and growing through internal expansion and acquisitions. The Companys growth strategy will continue to focus on these key elements. Maintaining financial flexibility is also a key component of the Companys future growth. With strong operating cash flow and available credit capacity, the Company is confident that it will be able to financially support its future growth. The strategic initiatives that the Company has implemented in the past two years, as well as those that will be implemented in fiscal 2007 and beyond, will strengthen the Companys operational platform and contribute to continuing future growth. Given these factors, the Company considers itself well positioned to capitalize upon the growth opportunities in the dental supply, companion pet veterinary supply and the worldwide rehabilitation supply markets. The Company believes that the sustainable, long term growth rate of its North American dental operation is four percentage points in excess of the markets 7% to 9% estimated rate of growth. The Company also believes its Webster Veterinary and Patterson Medical units can grow faster than the estimated 6% to 7% growth rate of the U.S. companion pet veterinary supply market and the estimated 6% growth rate of the rehabilitation market. 37 Table of Contents Asset Management The following table summarizes the Companys days sales outstanding (DSO) and inventory turnover over the past three fiscal years: 2006 2005 2004 Days sales outstanding 47 46 46 Inventory turnover (1) 7.3 7.9 8.2 (1) The inventory values used in this calculation are the LIFO inventory values for all inventories except for manufactured inventories and foreign inventories, which are valued using FIFO inventory methods. Foreign Operations Foreign sales are derived primarily from Patterson Dental and Patterson Medical operations in Canada and from Patterson Medicals operations in the U.K. and France. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates have not significantly impacted earnings. However, net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 were enhanced by changes in the exchange rate. Without foreign currency effects, net sales would have been $9.3 million, $12.6 million and $19.4 million lower in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Changing currency exchange rates represents a risk accompanying foreign operations, but this risk is not considered material with respect to the net operations of the Companys business. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Company has adopted various accounting policies to prepare its consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Management believes that the Companys policies are conservative and its philosophy is to adopt accounting policies that minimize the risk of adverse events having a material impact on recorded assets and liabilities. However, the preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and judgments regarding the realization of assets and the settlements of liabilities based on the information available to management at the time. Changes subsequent to the preparation of the financial statements in economic, technological and competitive conditions may materially impact the recorded values of the Companys assets and liabilities. Therefore, the users of the financial statements should read all the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and be aware that conditions currently unknown to management may develop in the future. This may require a material adjustment to a recorded asset or liability to consistently apply the Companys significant accounting principles and policies that are discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The financial performance and condition of the Company may also be materially impacted by transactions and events that the Company has not previously experienced and for which the Company has not been required to establish an accounting policy or adopt a generally accepted accounting principle. Revenue Recognition Our revenue recognition processes involve establishing estimates for returns, damaged goods, rebates and other revenue allowances. These estimates are based on historical experience and the facts known at the date of the preparation of the financial statements, but future events could cause actual results to vary from our estimates. Inventory and Reserves Inventory consists primarily of merchandise held for sale and is stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the last in, first out (LIFO) method for all inventories, except for foreign inventories and manufactured inventories, which are valued using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We continually assess the valuation of our inventories and reduce the carrying value of those inventories that are obsolete or in excess of our forecasted usage to estimated realizable value. We estimate the net realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and assumptions including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand and market requirements. 38 Table of Contents Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable net assets of businesses acquired. Other intangible assets include customer lists, a distribution agreement and other amortizable intangible assets. In addition, other intangible assets consist of trademarks and trade names that are unamortized intangible assets. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, requires that goodwill for each reporting unit be reviewed for impairment at least annually. The Company has three reporting units at April 29, 2006. The Company tests goodwill for impairment using the two step process prescribed in SFAS No. 142. In the first step, the Company compares the fair value of each reporting unit, as computed primarily by present value cash flow calculations, to its book carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying value, no further work is required and no impairment loss is recognized. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, the goodwill of the reporting unit is potentially impaired and the Company would then complete step 2 in order to measure the impairment loss. In step 2, the Company would calculate the implied fair value of goodwill by deducting the fair value of all tangible and intangible net assets (including unrecognized intangible assets) of the reporting unit from the fair value of the reporting unit (as determined in step 1). If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of goodwill, the Company would recognize an impairment loss equal to the difference. Management also reviews other intangible assets with finite lives for impairment at least annually to determine if any adverse conditions exist that would indicate impairment. If the carrying value of the finite lived intangible assets exceeds the expected undiscounted cash flows resulting from the use and disposition of the asset, the carrying value is written down to fair value in the period identified. Indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed at least annually for impairment by calculating the fair value of the assets and comparing with their carrying value. In assessing fair value, management generally utilizes present value cash flow calculations using an expected cash flow approach. During the fourth quarters of fiscal 2006 and 2005, management completed its annual goodwill and intangible asset impairment reviews with no impairments to the carrying values identified. The discount rate and sales growth assumptions are the two most significant assumptions utilized in the Companys calculations of the present value cash flows used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units when performing the annual goodwill impairment test and in testing indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. The Company utilizes an expected cash flow approach in estimating the fair value of the reporting units, where the discount reflects a risk free rate of interest and utilizes various probability weighted scenarios to estimate future sales. The cash flow model used to derive fair value is most sensitive to the discount rate and sales growth assumptions used. The estimated fair value of the reporting units and indefinite lived intangible assets has historically exceeded the carrying value of such reporting unit or indefinite lived intangible asset by a substantial amount. The Company performs a sensitivity analysis on the discount rate, sales growth and operating margin assumptions. Either the discount rate could be increased by 50% of the discount rate utilized, or the sales growth assumption could be reduced by 30%, and the Companys reporting units and indefinite lived intangible assets would continue to have fair values in excess of the carrying values. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Share Based Payment On December 16, 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123R). SFAS 123R is a revision of Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, and supersedes Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance. SFAS 123R eliminates the ability to account for share based compensation transactions using the intrinsic value method under APB Opinion No. 25 and requires a public entity to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments (including employee stock options) based on the grant date fair value of the award. 39 Table of Contents SFAS 123R originally required adoption in the first interim or annual period beginning after June 15, 2005. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a release that amended the compliance dates for SFAS 123R. Under the SECs new rule, the Company is required to adopt SFAS 123R as of April 30, 2006. SFAS 123R permits a public entity to adopt its requirements using one of two methods: A modified prospective method in which compensation cost is recognized beginning with the effective date (a) based on the requirements of SFAS 123R for all share based payments granted after the effective date and (b) based on the requirements of SFAS 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of SFAS 123R that remain unvested on the effective date. A modified retrospective method which includes the requirements of the modified prospective method described above, but also permits entities to restate, based on amounts previously recognized under SFAS 123 for purposes of pro forma disclosures, either (a) all prior periods presented or (b) prior interim periods of the year of adoption. The Company is adopting SFAS 123R using the modified prospective method. The Company anticipates the adoption of SFAS 123R will reduce earnings per share by approximately $0.04 in fiscal 2007. Servicing of Financial Assets In March 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 156, Accounting for the Servicing of Financial Assets an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 140 (SFAS 156). Among other requirements, SFAS 156 requires that all separately recognized servicing assets and liabilities initially be measured at fair value, if practicable. SFAS 156 will be effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2008. The Company does not believe SFAS 156 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. Factors That May Affect Future Operating Results Certain information of a non historical nature contained in Items 1, 2, 3 and 7 of this Form 10 K include forward looking statements. Words such as believes, expects, plans, estimates, intends and variations of such words are intended to identify such forward looking statements. The statements are not guaranties of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties or assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, the Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following important factors, among others, could cause the Companys actual operating results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements. The factors listed under this caption are intended to serve as cautionary statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following information is not intended to limit in any way the characterization of other statements or information under other captions as cautionary statements for such purpose. The order in which such factors appear below should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority. The Companys ability to meet increased competition from national, regional and local full service distributors and mail order distributors of dental, veterinary and rehabilitation products, while maintaining current or improved profit margins. The ability of the Company to retain its base of customers and to increase its market share. The ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified and motivated sales personnel. The continued ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with key vendors and the ability of the Company to create relationships with additional manufacturers of quality, innovative products. Changes in the economics of dentistry affecting dental practice growth and the demand for dental products, including the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high technology diagnostic and therapeutic products. Reduced growth in expenditures for dental services by private dental insurance plans. 40 Table of Contents The accuracy of the Companys assumptions concerning future per capita expenditures for dental services, including assumptions as to population growth and the demand for preventive and specialty dental services such as periodontic, endodontic and orthodontic procedures. The rate of growth in demand for infection control products currently used for prevention of the spread of communicable diseases such as AIDS, hepatitis and herpes. Changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets. The effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation, which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitation and assistive products. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Market Risk The Company is exposed to market risk consisting of foreign currency rate fluctuations and changes in interest rates. The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in its operating statement due to transactions denominated primarily in Canadian Dollars, British Pounds and Euros. Although historically the Company has elected not to enter into any hedging contracts, it continually evaluates its foreign currency exchange rate risk and the different mechanisms for use in managing such risk. A hypothetical 10% change in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Companys most significant foreign currency exposures would have had an impact of approximately $23.0 million on fiscal 2006 net sales. This amount is not indicative of the hypothetical net earnings impact due to the partially offsetting impact of the currency exchange movements on cost of sales and operating expenses. The Companys earnings are also affected by fluctuations in short term interest rates through the investment of its cash balances, borrowings under LIBOR based debt instruments and the practice of selling fixed rate equipment finance contracts under agreements with both a commercial paper conduit and a group of banks that provide for pricing based on variable interest rates. During fiscal 2004, the Company entered into $650 million of new debt financing agreements that included both fixed and variable interest rate debt instruments. As of April 29, 2006, the Company had $300 million of debt outstanding under these agreements of which $150 million was variable interest rate based debt. The Company views its variable interest rate debt position on a net basis that gives effect to the Companys cash and short term investments balances. When considering the exposure under the agreements whereby the Company sells equipment finance contracts to both a commercial paper conduit and a group of banks, the Company has the ability to select pricing based on interest rates ranging from 30 day LIBOR up to twelve month LIBOR. In addition, the portfolio of installment contracts generally turns over in less than 48 months and the Company can adjust the rate it charges on new customer contracts at any time. This provides that, in times where the interest rate markets are not rapidly increasing or decreasing, the average interest rate in the portfolio generally moves with the interest rate markets and thus would parallel the underlying interest rate movement of the pricing built into the sale agreements. In calculating the gain on the contract sales, the Company uses an interest rate curve that approximates the maturity period of the then outstanding contracts. The average interest rate in the portfolio did not increase as much as the interest rate markets in fiscal 2006, resulting in a reduction of gain on the contracts sales as compared to the gain that would have been realized had the average interest rate in the portfolio increased at a more similar rate to the interest rate markets. The Company estimates that if interest rates had been 10% higher during the year, the annual impact would have been to reduce earnings before income tax by approximately $2.0 million. 41 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview The Companys fiscal 2006 financial information is summarized in this Managements Discussion and Analysis, the Consolidated Financial Statements, and the related Notes. The following background is essential to more fully understand the Companys financial information. Patterson operates a distribution business in three complementary markets: dental supply, veterinary supply and rehabilitation supply. Historically the Companys strategy for growth focused on internal growth and the acquisition of smaller distributors and businesses offering related products and services to the dental market. In fiscal 2002, the Company expanded its strategy to take advantage of a parallel growth opportunity in the veterinary supply market by acquiring the assets of J. A. Webster, Inc. on July 9, 2001. The Company added a third component to its business platform in fiscal 2004 when it entered the rehabilitation supply market with the acquisition of AbilityOne Products Corp. (AbilityOne) on September 12, 2003. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for more on this transaction. AbilityOne is now known as Patterson Medical Products, Inc. (Patterson Medical). The historical operating performance of the veterinary supply and rehabilitation supply businesses are somewhat different than the dental supply business. The veterinary business generates gross margin percentages in the low to mid 20s compared to the mid 30s for dental. The operating expense rate is also lower in the veterinary business than in the dental business. The rehabilitation business generates higher gross margins than the dental business, producing gross margin in the low to mid 40s. There are several important aspects of the Companys business, including: (1) market growth in the various markets in which it operates; (2) internal growth; (3) growth through acquisition; and (4) continued focus on controlling costs and enhancing efficiency, that are useful in analyzing the Company. Management defines internal growth as the increase in net sales from period to period, excluding the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, and the net sales, for a period of twelve months following the transaction date, of businesses that it has acquired. With these factors in mind, management has established certain operating objectives, which include increasing net sales four percentage points faster than the average market growth rate and improving operating margins by 50 basis points annually. The Company did not achieve its objectives related to net sales growth and expansion of operating margins in fiscal 2006 due to several factors including slower than anticipated growth in dental equipment sales, the impact of an acquisition in the dental business, and lower than expected operating results from its rehabilitation segment. Actions to improve the equipment growth rate were implemented in the second quarter of fiscal 2006, but due to the nature of this aspect of the business, the impacts of the actions did not begin to manifest themselves until the fourth quarter. The Accu Bite acquisition had an adverse affect on consolidated margins, as Accu Bite had lower operating margins than the Companys traditional dental business. Accu Bite operated a low margin tele sales business which the Company continued to operate until May 2006. In response to the operating results at Patterson Medical, the Company put a new management team into place during the second half of fiscal 2006. The new management team has largely completed a strategic appraisal of Patterson Medicals operations. Supported by this evaluation, a number of strategies are being implemented, including new sales and marketing programs. The Company is committing a portion of its fiscal 2007 operating leverage improvement to investments in the sales and marketing organization at Patterson Medical, which will entail a significant expansion of the sales force as well as other marketing initiatives. 31 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes the consolidated results of operations over the past three fiscal years as a percent of sales: 2006 2005 2004 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 65.0 % 64.4 % 64.3 % Gross margin 35.0 % 35.6 % 35.7 % Operating expenses 22.6 % 23.1 % 23.4 % Operating income 12.4 % 12.5 % 12.3 % Other income, net 0.2 % 0.2 % 0.3 % Interest expense 0.5 % 0.6 % 0.4 % Income before taxes 12.1 % 12.1 % 12.2 % Income taxes 4.5 % 4.5 % 4.6 % Net income 7.6 % 7.6 % 7.6 % Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Net Sales. Net sales for the year ended April 29, 2006 totaled $2,615.1 million, an 8.0% increase from $2,421.5 million reported for the previous year. The Company utilizes a fifty two, fifty three week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in April. Due to the Companys fiscal year policy, fiscal 2005 included an additional or fifty third week as compared to fiscal 2006. The Company estimates the additional week in fiscal 2005 had a one to two percentage point adverse impact on the growth rate in fiscal 2006. Sales of our largest business unit, dental supply, increased 7.2%. Excluding the impact of the Accu Bite acquisition and favorable foreign currency exchange translation related to our Canadian operations, sales grew approximately 4% in fiscal 2006. Sales of dental consumable supplies experienced strong growth of 9.5%. Excluding the 4.1 percentage point impact to growth from the Accu Bite acquisition, and considering the additional week in fiscal 2005, consumables growth was on the high end of our of estimated market growth rate of 5% to 7%. Equipment sales growth of 3.7% was below historic norms. In the second half of fiscal 2006, programs were implemented to improve the sluggish sales performance for basic equipment, such as chairs, units, cabinetry and lights, back to more historic growth rates. These programs contributed to a stronger performance in the fourth quarter and the Company believes this progress will continue in fiscal 2007. With respect to new technology equipment, digital radiography continues to see significant practitioner demand and related sales grew 2X% compared to fiscal 2005. The Company believes its single source approach to this technology, its access to the leading vendors products and an estimated market penetration of only 25% bodes well for another strong contribution by digital radiography to our equipment business in fiscal 2007. Sales of the CEREC&reg; 3D dental restorative system were virtually unchanged from fiscal 2005. The Company expects to grow CEREC sales during fiscal 2007 and is confident this technology will continue to penetrate the ranks of general practitioners. Sales of other services and products, including parts, technical service, software support and insurance e claims, grew 8.2% in fiscal 2006. Sales at the Webster Veterinary unit grew 18.6% to $346.1 million from $292.0 million. The impact from the October 2004 Milburn and December 2005 IntraVet acquisitions was approximately $24.7 million, or 8.5 percentage points of the growth. Websters sales growth was strong throughout the year and was complemented by several factors. First, the business began its greenfield expansion into the large California market, which 32 Table of Contents represents its most successful greenfield initiative to date. Second, for the past few years, Webster has been laying the groundwork for expanding its position in the equipment market and this growing emphasis improved its results. Equipment sales for the year grew 49% from fiscal 2005. The Company believes equipment, in conjunction with the recently acquired IntraVet software product line, is an excellent, long term opportunity for the veterinary unit. Finally, another source of growth in fiscal 2006 sales was new pharmaceutical distribution agreements, including a canine pain medication previously sold direct by the manufacturer. Patterson Medicals sales growth was 2.3%. An improvement in North American sales was partly offset by a decline in sales of the overseas operations. In the second half of fiscal 2006, a new management team was put in place. Now responsible for driving stronger operating results, new management has planned a range of strategic initiatives that are being put into place. Late in the third quarter, a small, non core portion of the segment was sold which also negatively impacted the growth rate of sales. Gross Margin. Consolidated gross margin declined 60 basis points in fiscal 2006 to 35.0%. Sales from the Webster Veterinary unit made up a larger portion of sales in fiscal 2006 due to its strong sales growth. Because gross margin at the veterinary unit is lower than both the dental and rehabilitation units, the units sales growth had a dilutive effect on consolidated gross margin. The dental units gross margin decrease of nearly 50 basis points was largely due to the acquisition of Accu Bite. Acquired territory sales representatives were integrated within existing Patterson branches, however, Accu Bite also had a telesales operation that was not integrated and produced substantially lower gross margins than the traditional dental sales operations. The telesales business was shutdown in early May of 2006, however, it did operate from the September 2005 date of acquisition through the end of fiscal 2006. The gross margin of the veterinary business was virtually unchanged. A full year of Milburn operations, which carry lower margins than the historical Webster business, was included in fiscal 2006 results compared to approximately six months in fiscal 2005 and negatively impacted the overall gross margin of the unit. However, this impact was largely offset by the sales growth of equipment and software, which carry higher margins than the rest of the units product offerings. Patterson Medicals gross margin fell 100 basis points, largely due to sales mix, including lower sales levels of the overseas operations, which have carried higher gross margins than the North American operations. Operating Expenses. The consolidated operating expense ratio decreased to 22.6%, down 50 basis points from 23.1% a year ago. The dental segment experienced a 30 basis point decrease, reflecting operating leverage on additional sales and reduced incentive compensation. This improvement was partially offset by costs associated with the integration of the Accu Bite acquisition. The veterinary segment also improved its operating expense ratio by 30 basis points, due primarily to operating leverage on improved sales. Costs associated with the initial expense structure of the California greenfield expansion somewhat offset this improvement. The operating expense ratio at Patterson Medical declined by 170 basis points due to lower levels of amortization of intangibles. Consolidated amortization expense in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 was $7.0 million and $12.2 million, respectively. The $5.2 million decrease was due primarily to amortization on certain intangible assets related to the acquisition of Patterson Medical, some of which were being amortized on an accelerated basis due to their period of benefit. Operating Income. Operating income increased 6.9% and decreased 10 basis points as a percent of sales. As discussed above, consolidated gross margins declined 60 basis points, while the consolidated operating expense ratio improved 50 basis points. 33 Table of Contents Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased from $15.1 million to $13.4 million. The average debt balance carried in fiscal 2006 was lower than in fiscal 2005 because the Company paid down substantial amounts of debt near the end of fiscal 2005. However, in November 2005, an interest rate swap on $100 million of variable rate debt terminated. This swap had existed throughout all of fiscal 2005 and under the terms of the agreement, the Company effectively paid a low, fixed rate on the variable rate debt. Due to the termination of the swap agreement and rising interest rates, the Company experienced a higher weighted average interest rate in fiscal 2006 and was not able to recognize significantly lower levels of interest expense as compared to fiscal 2005. Other Income, net. Other income, net of other expenses, was consistent year over year. Composed primarily of finance interest income in both years, net other income was $7.3 million in fiscal 2006 compared to $6.5 million in fiscal 2005 resulting primarily from the growth of the business. Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 37.4% in both fiscal years 2006 and 2005. The Companys effective tax rate is higher than the statutory federal rate primarily because of state, local and international taxes the Company must pay. Earnings Per Share. Earnings per share increased to $1.43, up $0.11 or 8% from the $1.32 earnings per share reported in fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Net Sales. Net sales for the year ended April 30, 2005 totaled $2,421.5 million, a 23.0% increase from $1,969.3 million reported for the previous year. Fiscal 2005 included an extra, or fifty third week as compared to fiscal 2004, which included fifty two weeks. The Companys fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of April each year. The estimated impact of the extra week contributed 1.7 percentage points of the fiscal 2005 sales growth. Sales of our largest business unit, dental supply, increased 13.5%. Excluding the impact of the extra week, foreign currency exchange translation related to our Canadian operations, and the acquisition of CAESY, sales grew 11.5% in fiscal 2005. Sales of dental consumable supplies experienced strong growth of 8.9%. After the estimated impact of the extra week, consumables sales rose approximately 7%, which is on the high end of our estimated market growth of 5% to 7%. Sales of equipment and related software within this business unit continued to be a principal sales growth driver, improving by 21.5%. While sales growth was seen across various equipment categories, demand for new technology equipment was particularly robust, with sales of the CEREC&reg; 3D dental restorative system up 39% for the year, while sales of digital radiography systems, including related software and hardware, rose 31%. Sales of other services and products, consisting primarily of parts, technical service, software support and insurance e claims, grew 11.1%. The increase in veterinary supply sales of 38.5% included contributions from the acquisitions of ProVet in late fiscal 2004 and Milburn in October 2004, as well as the impact of an extra week. Two other factors affected the comparability of sales between fiscal years 2005 and 2004. First, ProHeart 6, an injectable heartworm medication, was voluntarily recalled by its manufacturer in September 2004. This recall resulted in lost revenues of approximately $6 million in fiscal 2005. Second, a temporary pharmaceutical distribution agreement was in place during fiscal 2004 until the third quarter, at which time the agreement was converted to an agency arrangement, resulting in lower sales. This agency arrangement remained the same for the balance of fiscal 2004 and for all of fiscal 2005. Excluding the impact of the acquisitions, extra week, ProHeart 6 recall and distribution agreement conversion, net sales increased 7.8% in the veterinary supply business. The September 2003 acquisition of Patterson Medical resulted in the creation of the rehabilitation supply business unit which contributed sales of $142.3 million in fiscal 2004. With a full year of operations, as well as 34 Table of Contents the acquisition of Medco, revenues more than doubled to $295.3 million in fiscal 2005. On a pro forma basis, as if the acquisition of Patterson Medical was effective at the beginning of fiscal 2004, and excluding the estimated impact of the extra week, foreign currency translation related to foreign operations, and the Medco acquisition, sales grew by 8.7%. Gross Margin. Gross margin declined 10 basis points in fiscal 2005 to 35.6%. The Company did experience a sequential improvement each quarter after the first in fiscal 2005, including a 50 basis point improvement between the third and fourth quarter. In fiscal 2005, dental supply gross margins increased 20 basis points reflecting favorable product mix, including the newly acquired CAESY product offerings. Gross margin decreases in the other business units offset the improvement in the dental unit. There are continuing pricing pressures within the veterinary supply market that are affecting margins. Additionally, the recent acquisitions of ProVet and Milburn carry lower gross margin than the traditional Webster business. Patterson Medicals gross margin decline is attributable largely to a shift in product mix. Operating Expenses. The consolidated operating expense ratio decreased to 23.1%, down 30 basis points from 23.4% a year ago. The dental ratio improved 40 basis points, reflecting operating leverage on additional sales. The veterinary segment experienced an increase in its operating expense ratio of 1.2 percentage points, as the recent acquisitions, which had higher cost structures than the traditional Webster business, have been assimilated into the segments existing structure. Patterson Medicals operating expense ratio increased 40 basis points. Contributing to the increase in the expense ratio were additional catalog costs, including costs related to the Medco business acquired in May 2004, and additional amortization expense. Consolidated amortization expense in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004 was $12.2 million and $7.2 million, respectively. The $5 million increase was due primarily to amortization on certain intangible assets related to the acquisition of Patterson Medical, some of which are being amortized on an accelerated basis due to their period of benefit. Also, a non compete agreement of approximately $0.7 million was written off in the third quarter of fiscal 2005. Operating Income. Operating income increased 24.6% and improved 20 basis points as a percent of sales. A full year of operations from Patterson Medical and improved operating leverage in the dental segment were the primary drivers of the operating margin improvement. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased from $9.6 million to $15.1 million as a result of the mid fiscal 2004 debt financing related to the acquisition of Patterson Medical. The Company paid down substantial amounts of debt during the year. However much of this debt could not be paid until late in the year based on terms of the agreements. Thus, fiscal 2005 interest expense was not significantly affected by the debt retirements. Other Income, net. Other income, net of other expenses, was consistent year over year. Composed primarily of finance interest income in both years, net other income was $6.5 million for fiscal 2005 compared to $6.6 million for fiscal 2004. Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate in fiscal 2005 was 37.4%, a slight decrease from 37.6% in fiscal 2004. The decrease was due to the addition of the foreign operations of Patterson Medical, particularly in the U.K. The U.K. operations caused the estimated annual effective tax rate to decline since the tax rates in the U.K. were less than in the United States during the year. Earnings Per Share. Earnings per share increased to $1.32, up $0.24 or 22% from the $1.08 earnings per share reported in fiscal 2004. 35 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Pattersons operating cash flow has been the Companys principal source of liquidity in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, supplemented in fiscal 2004 by the issuance of $500 million of debt. Cash generated from operating activities was invested in working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. Operating activities generated cash of $164.0 million in fiscal 2006 compared with $207.3 million in fiscal 2005 and $197.7 million in fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2006, the Company did not sell approximately $30 million of short duration finance contracts that were generated as a part of its traditional calendar year end financing programs. These contracts have an average maturity of less than 24 months and will generate interest income at rates approximating what cash would earn, thus the Company elected not to incur the administrative expense of selling these contracts. Had these contracts been sold, cash from operations would have been approximately $200 million. Capital expenditures net of dispositions were $49.2, $31.5 and $19.6 million in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The increase in 2005 over 2004 reflected spending on a new building for the printed office products division as well as a shared distribution center in South Carolina, which was one of the first major expenditures related to the distribution realignment under the Companys shared services initiative. In fiscal 2006, the Company continued to execute its plan of distribution realignment, including expenditures for a shared distribution center in Kent, Washington and another in eastern Pennsylvania. In addition, fiscal 2006 included expenditures for a new distribution facility for the Patterson Medical operations in the U.K. The Company expects to invest approximately $30 million in capital expenditures during fiscal 2007. These funds will be used to exercise the purchase option of the Kent, WA facility, and the renovation and upgrading of two additional distribution facilities in the U.S. and Canada. The Company will continue the expansion of its information systems. Cash used for acquisitions totaled $39.2 million in fiscal 2006, including Accu Bite and IntraVet. In fiscal 2005, the Company used $72.9 million of cash for acquisitions, including Medco, CAESY and Milburn. In fiscal 2004, the Company used $606.4 million of cash for acquisitions, namely Patterson Medical and ProVet. The acquisition of Patterson Medical was initially debt financed through a $500 million bridge loan. In November 2003, the bridge loan was converted into two permanent debt financing arrangements as more fully described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. A cash payment of $100 million was made to Sirona Dental Systems GmbH (Sirona) in fiscal 2006, representing a distribution fee that extends the Companys exclusive North American distribution agreement of Sironas CEREC equipment for a ten year period beginning in October 2007. The Company did not repurchase any of its common stock in fiscal years 2006, 2005 or 2004, but does have authorization from the board of directors to repurchase up to six million shares. This authorization expires September 30, 2009. Management continues to expect funds generated from operations and existing cash and short term investments to be sufficient to meet the Companys working capital needs for the next fiscal year. The Company will continue to obtain liquidity from the sale of its equipment finance contracts. Payments on long term debt, substantially all of which were scheduled quarterly payments on the Companys term loan, were $20 million in fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2005, the Company paid down the full $50 million balance outstanding on a revolving credit facility that existed at the end of fiscal 2004. An amount of $200 million is available to the Company under this revolving credit facility until November 2008. Additionally, in April 2005, the Company made a prepayment of $100 million on its floating rate debt and an additional $5 million payment over and above the scheduled amortization on its term loan. Scheduled quarterly amortization on the term loan for the year totaled $20 million. For fiscal 2007, $70 million of fixed rate private notes and $20 million of additional bank term loan repayments are scheduled. 36 Table of Contents The Companys short term and long term facilities are believed to be adequate as a supplement to internally generated cash flows to fund anticipated expansion plans and strategic initiatives. Future debt prepayments will depend on managements views with respect to interest rates together with the investment needs of the business at the time. The Company sells a significant portion of its installment sale contracts to a commercial paper funded conduit managed by a third party bank, and as a result, commercial paper is indirectly an important source of liquidity for the Company. The Company is allowed to participate in the conduit due to the quality of its finance contracts and its financial strength. Cash flow could be impaired if the Companys financial strength diminished to a level that precluded the Company from taking part in this facility or other similar facilities. The Companys financing business is described in further detail in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations During fiscal 2004, the Company entered into two new debt financing arrangements, including both bank and private debt with a total capacity of $650 million. The bank portion of the package totaled $300 million and was comprised of a $100 million five year, amortizing term loan and a $200 million five year, revolving credit facility. The private debt was a total of $350 million of fixed and floating rate notes with maturities ranging from 3 to 7 years with one year, no call provisions. The Company had two primary objectives in placing this debt: one, to lower its overall cost of capital, and two, to provide significant flexibility in financing the growth of the business. Approximately $200 million of capacity under the bank arrangement remains for future use. A summary of the Companys contractual obligations as of April 29, 2006 follows (in thousands): Payment due by year Contractual Obligations Total Less than1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than5 years Long Term Debt $ 300,041 $ 90,027 $ 210,014 Operating Leases 51,728 12,231 20,431 $ 13,716 $ 5,350 For a more complete description of our contractual obligations, please see Notes 7 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Outlook Over the last ten years, the Company has been able to grow revenue and earnings through its strategy of emphasizing its value added, full service capabilities, using technology to enhance customer service, continuing to improve operating efficiencies, and growing through internal expansion and acquisitions. The Companys growth strategy will continue to focus on these key elements. Maintaining financial flexibility is also a key component of the Companys future growth. With strong operating cash flow and available credit capacity, the Company is confident that it will be able to financially support its future growth. The strategic initiatives that the Company has implemented in the past two years, as well as those that will be implemented in fiscal 2007 and beyond, will strengthen the Companys operational platform and contribute to continuing future growth. Given these factors, the Company considers itself well positioned to capitalize upon the growth opportunities in the dental supply, companion pet veterinary supply and the worldwide rehabilitation supply markets. The Company believes that the sustainable, long term growth rate of its North American dental operation is four percentage points in excess of the markets 7% to 9% estimated rate of growth. The Company also believes its Webster Veterinary and Patterson Medical units can grow faster than the estimated 6% to 7% growth rate of the U.S. companion pet veterinary supply market and the estimated 6% growth rate of the rehabilitation market. 37 Table of Contents Asset Management The following table summarizes the Companys days sales outstanding (DSO) and inventory turnover over the past three fiscal years: 2006 2005 2004 Days sales outstanding 47 46 46 Inventory turnover (1) 7.3 7.9 8.2 (1) The inventory values used in this calculation are the LIFO inventory values for all inventories except for manufactured inventories and foreign inventories, which are valued using FIFO inventory methods. Foreign Operations Foreign sales are derived primarily from Patterson Dental and Patterson Medical operations in Canada and from Patterson Medicals operations in the U.K. and France. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates have not significantly impacted earnings. However, net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 were enhanced by changes in the exchange rate. Without foreign currency effects, net sales would have been $9.3 million, $12.6 million and $19.4 million lower in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Changing currency exchange rates represents a risk accompanying foreign operations, but this risk is not considered material with respect to the net operations of the Companys business. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Company has adopted various accounting policies to prepare its consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Management believes that the Companys policies are conservative and its philosophy is to adopt accounting policies that minimize the risk of adverse events having a material impact on recorded assets and liabilities. However, the preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and judgments regarding the realization of assets and the settlements of liabilities based on the information available to management at the time. Changes subsequent to the preparation of the financial statements in economic, technological and competitive conditions may materially impact the recorded values of the Companys assets and liabilities. Therefore, the users of the financial statements should read all the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and be aware that conditions currently unknown to management may develop in the future. This may require a material adjustment to a recorded asset or liability to consistently apply the Companys significant accounting principles and policies that are discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The financial performance and condition of the Company may also be materially impacted by transactions and events that the Company has not previously experienced and for which the Company has not been required to establish an accounting policy or adopt a generally accepted accounting principle. Revenue Recognition Our revenue recognition processes involve establishing estimates for returns, damaged goods, rebates and other revenue allowances. These estimates are based on historical experience and the facts known at the date of the preparation of the financial statements, but future events could cause actual results to vary from our estimates. Inventory and Reserves Inventory consists primarily of merchandise held for sale and is stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the last in, first out (LIFO) method for all inventories, except for foreign inventories and manufactured inventories, which are valued using the first in, first out (FIFO) method. We continually assess the valuation of our inventories and reduce the carrying value of those inventories that are obsolete or in excess of our forecasted usage to estimated realizable value. We estimate the net realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and assumptions including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand and market requirements. 38 Table of Contents Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable net assets of businesses acquired. Other intangible assets include customer lists, a distribution agreement and other amortizable intangible assets. In addition, other intangible assets consist of trademarks and trade names that are unamortized intangible assets. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, requires that goodwill for each reporting unit be reviewed for impairment at least annually. The Company has three reporting units at April 29, 2006. The Company tests goodwill for impairment using the two step process prescribed in SFAS No. 142. In the first step, the Company compares the fair value of each reporting unit, as computed primarily by present value cash flow calculations, to its book carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying value, no further work is required and no impairment loss is recognized. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, the goodwill of the reporting unit is potentially impaired and the Company would then complete step 2 in order to measure the impairment loss. In step 2, the Company would calculate the implied fair value of goodwill by deducting the fair value of all tangible and intangible net assets (including unrecognized intangible assets) of the reporting unit from the fair value of the reporting unit (as determined in step 1). If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of goodwill, the Company would recognize an impairment loss equal to the difference. Management also reviews other intangible assets with finite lives for impairment at least annually to determine if any adverse conditions exist that would indicate impairment. If the carrying value of the finite lived intangible assets exceeds the expected undiscounted cash flows resulting from the use and disposition of the asset, the carrying value is written down to fair value in the period identified. Indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed at least annually for impairment by calculating the fair value of the assets and comparing with their carrying value. In assessing fair value, management generally utilizes present value cash flow calculations using an expected cash flow approach. During the fourth quarters of fiscal 2006 and 2005, management completed its annual goodwill and intangible asset impairment reviews with no impairments to the carrying values identified. The discount rate and sales growth assumptions are the two most significant assumptions utilized in the Companys calculations of the present value cash flows used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units when performing the annual goodwill impairment test and in testing indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. The Company utilizes an expected cash flow approach in estimating the fair value of the reporting units, where the discount reflects a risk free rate of interest and utilizes various probability weighted scenarios to estimate future sales. The cash flow model used to derive fair value is most sensitive to the discount rate and sales growth assumptions used. The estimated fair value of the reporting units and indefinite lived intangible assets has historically exceeded the carrying value of such reporting unit or indefinite lived intangible asset by a substantial amount. The Company performs a sensitivity analysis on the discount rate, sales growth and operating margin assumptions. Either the discount rate could be increased by 50% of the discount rate utilized, or the sales growth assumption could be reduced by 30%, and the Companys reporting units and indefinite lived intangible assets would continue to have fair values in excess of the carrying values. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Share Based Payment On December 16, 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123R). SFAS 123R is a revision of Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, and supersedes Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance. SFAS 123R eliminates the ability to account for share based compensation transactions using the intrinsic value method under APB Opinion No. 25 and requires a public entity to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments (including employee stock options) based on the grant date fair value of the award. 39 Table of Contents SFAS 123R originally required adoption in the first interim or annual period beginning after June 15, 2005. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued a release that amended the compliance dates for SFAS 123R. Under the SECs new rule, the Company is required to adopt SFAS 123R as of April 30, 2006. SFAS 123R permits a public entity to adopt its requirements using one of two methods: A modified prospective method in which compensation cost is recognized beginning with the effective date (a) based on the requirements of SFAS 123R for all share based payments granted after the effective date and (b) based on the requirements of SFAS 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of SFAS 123R that remain unvested on the effective date. A modified retrospective method which includes the requirements of the modified prospective method described above, but also permits entities to restate, based on amounts previously recognized under SFAS 123 for purposes of pro forma disclosures, either (a) all prior periods presented or (b) prior interim periods of the year of adoption. The Company is adopting SFAS 123R using the modified prospective method. The Company anticipates the adoption of SFAS 123R will reduce earnings per share by approximately $0.04 in fiscal 2007. Servicing of Financial Assets In March 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 156, Accounting for the Servicing of Financial Assets an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 140 (SFAS 156). Among other requirements, SFAS 156 requires that all separately recognized servicing assets and liabilities initially be measured at fair value, if practicable. SFAS 156 will be effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2008. The Company does not believe SFAS 156 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. Factors That May Affect Future Operating Results Certain information of a non historical nature contained in Items 1, 2, 3 and 7 of this Form 10 K include forward looking statements. Words such as believes, expects, plans, estimates, intends and variations of such words are intended to identify such forward looking statements. The statements are not guaranties of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties or assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, the Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following important factors, among others, could cause the Companys actual operating results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward looking statements. The factors listed under this caption are intended to serve as cautionary statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following information is not intended to limit in any way the characterization of other statements or information under other captions as cautionary statements for such purpose. The order in which such factors appear below should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority. The Companys ability to meet increased competition from national, regional and local full service distributors and mail order distributors of dental, veterinary and rehabilitation products, while maintaining current or improved profit margins. The ability of the Company to retain its base of customers and to increase its market share. The ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified and motivated sales personnel. The continued ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with key vendors and the ability of the Company to create relationships with additional manufacturers of quality, innovative products. Changes in the economics of dentistry affecting dental practice growth and the demand for dental products, including the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high technology diagnostic and therapeutic products. Reduced growth in expenditures for dental services by private dental insurance plans. 40 Table of Contents The accuracy of the Companys assumptions concerning future per capita expenditures for dental services, including assumptions as to population growth and the demand for preventive and specialty dental services such as periodontic, endodontic and orthodontic procedures. The rate of growth in demand for infection control products currently used for prevention of the spread of communicable diseases such as AIDS, hepatitis and herpes. Changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets. The effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation, which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitation and assistive products. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Market Risk The Company is exposed to market risk consisting of foreign currency rate fluctuations and changes in interest rates. The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in its operating statement due to transactions denominated primarily in Canadian Dollars, British Pounds and Euros. Although historically the Company has elected not to enter into any hedging contracts, it continually evaluates its foreign currency exchange rate risk and the different mechanisms for use in managing such risk. A hypothetical 10% change in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Companys most significant foreign currency exposures would have had an impact of approximately $23.0 million on fiscal 2006 net sales. This amount is not indicative of the hypothetical net earnings impact due to the partially offsetting impact of the currency exchange movements on cost of sales and operating expenses. The Companys earnings are also affected by fluctuations in short term interest rates through the investment of its cash balances, borrowings under LIBOR based debt instruments and the practice of selling fixed rate equipment finance contracts under agreements with both a commercial paper conduit and a group of banks that provide for pricing based on variable interest rates. During fiscal 2004, the Company entered into $650 million of new debt financing agreements that included both fixed and variable interest rate debt instruments. As of April 29, 2006, the Company had $300 million of debt outstanding under these agreements of which $150 million was variable interest rate based debt. The Company views its variable interest rate debt position on a net basis that gives effect to the Companys cash and short term investments balances. When considering the exposure under the agreements whereby the Company sells equipment finance contracts to both a commercial paper conduit and a group of banks, the Company has the ability to select pricing based on interest rates ranging from 30 day LIBOR up to twelve month LIBOR. In addition, the portfolio of installment contracts generally turns over in less than 48 months and the Company can adjust the rate it charges on new customer contracts at any time. This provides that, in times where the interest rate markets are not rapidly increasing or decreasing, the average interest rate in the portfolio generally moves with the interest rate markets and thus would parallel the underlying interest rate movement of the pricing built into the sale agreements. In calculating the gain on the contract sales, the Company uses an interest rate curve that approximates the maturity period of the then outstanding contracts. The average interest rate in the portfolio did not increase as much as the interest rate markets in fiscal 2006, resulting in a reduction of gain on the contracts sales as compared to the gain that would have been realized had the average interest rate in the portfolio increased at a more similar rate to the interest rate markets. The Company estimates that if interest rates had been 10% higher during the year, the annual impact would have been to reduce earnings before income tax by approximately $2.0 million. 41 Table of Contents 
 
