Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation EXECUTIVE SUMMARY About the Company: Schering Plough is a worldwide pharmaceutical company committed to discovering, developing, manufacturing and marketing new therapies and treatments to enhance human health. The Companys primary business strategy is to continually discover or license human pharmaceutical products that are patent protected for an extended period of time. When a products patent expires, generic competition occurs, resulting in a substantial decline in a products average selling price. Schering Plough also has leading consumer product brands in the over the counter (OTC), foot care and sun care markets and has a global animal health business. Government regulatory agencies throughout the world regulate the Companys discovery, development, manufacturing and marketing efforts. The Food and Drug Administration in the United States (FDA) is a pivotal regulator of the Companys business. In the United States, the pricing of the Companys pharmaceutical products is subject to competitive pressure as managed care organizations seek price discounts. Also in the United States, the Company is required to provide statutorily defined rebates to various government agencies in order to participate in Medicaid, the veterans health care program and other government funded programs. In most international markets, the Company operates in an environment of government mandated cost containment programs. The Company ships its pharmaceutical products to wholesalers and distributors, but markets these products to health care professionals, managed care organizations and, to a lesser extent, patients themselves. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for the Company are the percentage market shares for its products. Market shares for the Companys major products are discussed in the sections that follow. The current state of the Company: During the past three years, the Company experienced a confluence of negative events, which are summarized as follows: Since 2001, the Company has been working with the FDA to resolve issues involving the Companys compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) at certain of its manufacturing sites in New Jersey and Puerto Rico. In 2002, the Company reached a formal agreement with the FDA for a consent decree. Under the terms of the consent decree, the Company agreed to make payments totaling $500 million and to revalidate the manufacturing processes at these sites. These manufacturing sites have remained opened throughout this period; however, the consent 32 Table of Contents decree has placed significant additional controls on production and release of products from these sites, including review and third party certification of production variances, and, for some products, review and third party certification of batch production records. The third party certifications and other cGMP improvement projects have resulted in higher costs as well as reduced output at these facilities. In addition, the Company has found it necessary to discontinue certain older products. The impact of the consent decree is discussed in more detail in the sections that follow. Certain of the Companys sales and marketing practices are under investigation by the U.S. Attorneys Offices in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts. These investigations pose significant risks to the Company and have caused the Company to significantly increase its litigation reserves. These matters are discussed in further detail in the sections that follow. In December 2002, the Company switched all formulations of CLARITIN in the United States from prescription to OTC status. This switch followed the loss of marketing exclusivity for the product. The average unit selling price for an OTC product is much lower than the price in the prescription market. Further, with the loss of marketing exclusivity, the Company faces additional competition from comparable brands and generics in the OTC marketplace. CLARITIN in the United States had been the Companys leading product in terms of sales, and even more so in terms of profit. As a result, the Company has experienced a rapid, sharp and material decline in earnings and cash flow beginning in 2003. The Company does not expect earnings to recover from the loss of sales of CLARITIN until such time as the Company introduces new products. Recovery may take several years. The Companys other leading franchise is the combination of pegylated interferon (PEG INTRON) and ribavirin (REBETOL) to treat hepatitis C. In late 2002, a competitor entered the hepatitis C marketplace with its own versions of pegylated interferon and ribavirin. Prior to the introduction of these competing products, the Company held a leading position in the hepatitis C market. With the introduction of this competitor, the Companys market shares have fallen significantly. This decline in sales has exacerbated the overall earnings and cash flow decline. In addition, generic forms of REBETOL may be approved at any time in the important U.S. market. If this were to occur, the Companys market shares and sales would decline further. 33 Table of Contents The above matters have resulted in the following: Cash flow has declined significantly, particularly in the United States, where the majority of research is conducted and from where dividends are paid. Also, payments arising from the investigations being conducted by the U.S. Attorneys Offices could further reduce cash flow in the United States. In addition, the Companys credit ratings have been reduced. The impact of the lower credit ratings and the Companys overall liquidity is discussed in detail in the sections that follow. The Companys manufacturing sites operate well below optimum levels due to sales declines and the reduction in output related to the consent decree. At the same time, overall costs of operating the manufacturing sites have increased due to the consent decree activities. The impact of these facts is a reduction in profit margins. At this time, the major investments in manufacturing capacity are not impaired; however, the Company continues to review the carrying value of these assets for indications of impairment. Future events and decisions may lead to asset impairment losses and accelerated depreciation due to shortened asset lives. In response to the above, the Company has initiated the following actions: A new management team has been appointed and has implemented many changes, some of which are described in the following sections. The quarterly dividend has been reduced to 5.5 cents from 17 cents per common share. A program entitled Value Enhancement Initiative (VEI) has commenced. VEI is a tool designed to enable the Company to save and spend wisely. The key cost cutting initiatives implemented include: Eliminating most employee bonuses for 2003 under the Companys standard plans. Eliminating the payout under the Companys profit sharing plan. Eliminating routine merit increases throughout 2004, with exceptions only where local contracts or practices prevent this action, for customer contact employees, for employees dedicated to fulfillment of the Companys FDA consent decree obligations and other business critical employees. Targeting an overall reduction in payroll and related expenses of at least 10 percent, again excluding payroll expense associated with customer contact employees and employees dedicated to fulfilling the Companys FDA consent decree obligations. The first step toward achieving this target was a Voluntary Early Retirement Program (VERP) in the United States. Approximately 900 employees elected to retire under this program. Installing global procurement programs. Exercising tight controls over new hires, cutting back in travel costs and reducing meeting expenses. 34 Table of Contents On a positive side, the Company is entering the cholesterol reduction market with the launch of ZETIA (ezetimibe) and the U.S. marketing application for ezetimibe/simvastatin combination, which was submitted for filing in September 2003. The cholesterol reduction market is the single largest pharmaceutical market in the world. Management believes that these products have the potential of enabling the Company to move beyond the loss of CLARITIN and to build long term financial strength. In addition, the Company believes that it has several potentially valuable pharmaceutical compounds in its earlier stage research pipeline. The Company is also aggressively pursuing licensing opportunities with other research based pharmaceutical companies. Outlook: Year over year comparisons between 2004 and 2003 will be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including the following: The Company experienced downward slopes in sales and market share of several of its key profit generating products throughout much of 2003. The Company is making significant investments in sales and marketing support aimed at stabilizing market shares of its key profit generating products. The Company expects generic competition for REBETOL in the U.S. market to begin in 2004. The contraction of the worldwide hepatitis C market that began in 2003 may continue in 2004. The absence of LOSEC revenues from Europe due to the end of the agreement with AstraZeneca in the third quarter of 2003. LOSEC revenues were $130 million in 2003. The ability of the Company to rebuild its financial strength is highly dependent upon the success of the cholesterol joint venture with Merck Co., Inc. (Merck). If this joint venture is highly successful, then the Company may be able to rebuild its financial strength and turn around its operating performance beginning in 2005. If the joint venture is not highly successful, then the Company must rely on the success of its early stage pipeline drugs, licensing opportunities, a significant change in corporate strategy or some combination of these. The reader should note that there is significant uncertainty inherent in any of the factors that could enable the Company to rebuild its financial strength. NET SALES Consolidated net sales in 2003 totaled $8.3 billion, a decrease of $1.8 billion or 18 percent compared with the same period in 2002. Consolidated net sales reflected a volume decline of 22 percent, a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of 5 percent and an unfavorable price impact of 1 percent. Net sales in the United States decreased 38 percent versus 2002 and net sales internationally advanced 8 percent. International sales included a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of 11 percent. 35 Table of Contents Consolidated 2002 net sales of $10.2 billion increased $418 million or 4 percent versus 2001, reflecting a price increase impact of 3 percent and a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of 1 percent. Sales volume in 2002 was unchanged versus 2001. Net sales by major therapeutic category for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: (Dollars in millions) % Increase (Decrease) 2003 2002 2001 2003/2002 2002/2001 Anti infective Anticancer $ 3,098 $ 3,733 $ 2,273 (17 %) 64 % Allergy Respiratory 2,003 3,304 4,217 (39 ) (22 ) Cardiovasculars 467 433 623 8 (30 ) Dermatologicals 507 511 593 (1 ) (14 ) Other Pharmaceuticals 597 807 715 (26 ) 13 Global Pharmaceuticals 6,672 8,788 8,421 (24 ) 4 OTC 563 269 178 N/M 51 Foot Care 275 279 291 (1 ) (4 ) Sun Care 127 167 178 (24 ) (5 ) Consumer Health Care 965 715 647 35 11 Animal Health 697 677 694 3 (2 ) Consolidated net sales $ 8,334 $ 10,180 $ 9,762 (18 %) 4 % N/M Not a meaningful percentage. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. Net sales of global anti infective and anticancer products decreased 17 percent compared with 2002. Sales of the INTRON franchise, used primarily for the treatment of hepatitis C, decreased 32 percent to $1.9 billion due to market share declines, changes in U.S. trade inventory levels and lower sales in Japan. Market share of the INTRON franchise has been declining, reflecting the entrance of a competitors new products in the hepatitis C market in 2003. Also, as previously reported, the Company anticipates potential generic competition in the United States for REBETOL in 2004. U.S. sales of REBETOL were $306 million in 2003. The INTRON franchise includes the anticancer/antiviral agent INTRON A Injection, as monotherapy and in combination with REBETOL Capsules for treating hepatitis C, and PEG INTRON Powder for Injection, a longer acting form of INTRON A, as monotherapy and in combination with REBETOL for treating hepatitis C. Net sales in the anti infective and anticancer therapeutic category benefited from international sales of REMICADE, for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, Crohns disease and ankylosing spondylitis. Net sales of REMICADE were up $203 million or 60 percent to $540 million, primarily in Europe, due to increased patient utilization. Global sales of TEMODAR Capsules, for treating certain types of brain tumors, increased 16 percent to $324 million due to increased market penetration. International sales of CAELYX, a long circulating pegylated liposomal formulation of doxorubicin hydrochloride, increased 55 percent to $111 million due to increased 36 Table of Contents patient utilization coupled with the ongoing launch of a new indication for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in patients who are at increased cardiac risk. In 2002, net sales of global anti infective and anticancer products rose 64 percent compared with 2001, led by the October 2001 market introduction of PEG INTRON in combination with REBETOL for hepatitis C in the United States, the continued rollout of this combination therapy in European markets and the December 2001 launch of REBETOL in combination with INTRON A in Japan. Sales in the anti infective and anticancer category in 2002 also benefited from higher international sales of REMICADE and global sales of TEMODAR, reflecting increased market penetration. Global net sales of allergy and respiratory products decreased 39 percent in 2003 and 22 percent in 2002. This category of sales was negatively impacted by the rapid decline in sales of prescription CLARITIN, resulting from its loss of market exclusivity in the United States along with conversion from prescription to OTC status in December 2002. In 2003, global sales of prescription CLARITIN were $370 million, compared with $1.8 billion in 2002 and $3.2 billion in 2001. U.S. sales of prescription CLARITIN recognized in 2003 were $25 million versus sales of $1.4 billion in 2002 and $2.7 billion in 2001. Global net sales of CLARINEX for the treatment of seasonal outdoor allergies and year round indoor allergies were $694 million in 2003, an increase of 16 percent, reflecting the continued conversion of patients from prescription CLARITIN to CLARINEX, coupled with the launch of CLARINEX in several international markets. These factors were tempered by contraction of the U.S. prescription antihistamine market following the launch of OTC CLARITIN as well as by changes in U.S. trade inventory levels. CLARINEX continues to experience intense competition in the U.S. allergy market. Global sales of CLARINEX were $598 million in 2002. CLARINEX was launched in the United States in January 2002. Net sales of NASONEX Nasal Spray, a once daily corticosteroid nasal spray for allergies, decreased 4 percent to $500 million in 2003 due to changes in U.S. trade inventory levels and market share declines in the United States. NASONEX is experiencing intense competition in the U.S. allergy market. International sales of NASONEX grew 21 percent to $199 million due to market share gains. Net sales of NASONEX in 2002 were essentially flat versus 2001 due to market share declines in the United States, tempered by market share gains in international markets. Global net sales of cardiovascular products increased 8 percent in 2003. Sales of INTEGRILIN Injection, a glycoprotein platelet aggregation inhibitor for the treatment of patients with acute coronary syndromes, increased 1 percent to $306 million due to increased patient utilization in the United States, tempered by a decline in U.S. trade inventory levels. In 2002, global net sales of cardiovascular products decreased 30 percent due to lower sales of K DUR, a sustained release potassium chloride supplement, which is subject to generic competition. Partially offsetting this decline were higher sales of INTEGRILIN due to increased patient utilization and increased market penetration. Net sales of consumer health care products, which include OTC, foot care and sun care products, increased $250 million or 35 percent in 2003 and increased $68 million in 2002. OTC product net sales increased $294 million in 2003 and $91 million in 2002 due to the launch of OTC 37 Table of Contents CLARITIN in December 2002. Sales of OTC CLARITIN were $415 million in 2003 and $105 million in 2002. During the third quarter of 2003, the Company began to face additional private label competition for OTC CLARITIN, as the initial 180 day period of exclusivity expired for the first OTC generic competitor. The comparison of 2002 versus 2001 was negatively impacted by manufacturing issues for other OTC products. Net sales of foot care products decreased $4 million or 1 percent in 2003 due to the nonrecurrence of the 2002 launch of LOTRIMIN ULTRA, a topical antifungal. Foot care sales decreased 4 percent in 2002 due to increasing competition, tempered by the launch of LOTRIMIN ULTRA. Net sales of sun care products decreased $40 million or 24 percent in 2003, primarily due to unfavorable weather conditions in the United States. Sun care sales decreased 5 percent in 2002 due to lower sales of BAIN DE SOLEIL products. Global net sales of animal health products increased 3 percent in 2003 to $697 million. Sales were favorably impacted by foreign exchange of 7 percent, offset by continued manufacturing supply issues, described in Additional Factors Influencing Operations below. Global net sales of animal health products decreased 2 percent in 2002 due to challenging global market conditions, coupled with manufacturing issues. 38 Table of Contents SUMMARY OF COSTS, EXPENSES AND EQUITY INCOME (Dollars in millions) % Increase (Decrease) 2003 2002 2001 2003/2002 2002/2001 Cost of sales $ 2,833 $ 2,505 $ 2,078 13 % 21 % % of net sales 34.0 % 24.6 % 21.3 % Selling, general and administrative $ 3,474 $ 3,681 $ 3,444 (6 %) 7 % % of net sales 41.7 % 36.2 % 35.3 % Research and development $ 1,469 $ 1,425 $ 1,312 3 % 9 % % of net sales 17.6 % 14.0 % 13.4 % Other (income) expense, net $ 59 $ (144 ) $ (95 ) N/M 51 % % of net sales 0.7 % (1.4 %) (1.0 %) Special charges $ 599 $ 150 $ 500 N/M (70 %) % of net sales 7.2 % 1.5 % 5.1 % Equity income from cholesterol joint venture $ (54 ) $ $ N/M % of net sales (0.7 %) N/M Not a meaningful percentage. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales in 2003 increased over 2002, primarily due to a change in product sales mix resulting from the loss of U.S. sales of prescription CLARITIN. The increase was also the result of higher unit manufacturing costs, including the effect of lower production volumes, coupled with increased spending for the Companys cGMP compliance efforts. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales in 2002 increased over 2001, primarily due to a shift in sales towards products on which royalties are paid and higher costs associated with manufacturing issues. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 6 percent to $3.5 billion in 2003 versus $3.7 billion in 2002. The decrease was mostly due to lower marketing expenses in the global pharmaceutical business, including zero payout of profit sharing and routine bonuses. In addition, field force incentives also declined. These decreases were tempered by higher promotion for OTC CLARITIN and foreign exchange. The ratio to net sales of 41.7 percent in 2003 was higher than the ratio of 36.2 percent in 2002, primarily due to lower overall sales reported in 2003. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 7 percent in 2002, and the ratio to net sales increased to 36.2 percent from 35.3 percent in 2001 due to increased spending to support the continued rollout of new and recently introduced products in international markets. Research and development spending increased 3 percent to $1.5 billion, representing 17.6 percent of net sales in 2003. Research and development expenses increased 9 percent to $1.4 39 Table of Contents billion and represented 14.0 percent of net sales in 2002. The changes in spending in both years reflect the timing of the Companys funding of both internal research efforts and research collaborations with various partners to discover and develop a steady flow of innovative products. The change in 2003 also reflects the presentation of research and development costs related to the cholesterol collaboration with Merck under the equity method of accounting, as discussed below. In 2003, Other (income) expense, net included higher net interest expense. Other (income) expense, net in 2002 included $80 million of income related to the sale of the Companys U.S. marketing rights for SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX sublingual tablets for the treatment of opioid dependence. (See the Other (Income) Expense, Net footnote for additional information.) SPECIAL CHARGES The components of special charges are as follows: (Dollars in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Employee termination costs $ 179 $ $ Asset impairment losses 70 Litigation charges 350 150 Consent decree charge 500 $ 599 $ 150 $ 500 40 Table of Contents Employee Termination Costs In August 2003, the Company announced a global workforce reduction initiative. The first phase of this initiative was a VERP in the United States. Under this program, eligible employees in the United States had until December 15, 2003, to elect early retirement and receive an enhanced retirement benefit. Approximately 900 employees elected to retire under the program, of which approximately 750 employees retired at or near year end 2003 and approximately 150 employees have staggered retirement dates in the future. The total cost of this program is estimated to be $190 million, comprised of increased pension costs of $107 million, increased post retirement health care costs of $57 million, vacation payments of $4 million and costs related to accelerated vesting of stock grants of $22 million. For employees with staggered retirement dates in the future, these amounts will be recognized as a special charge over the employees remaining service periods. This delayed expense recognition follows the guidance in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. Amounts recognized in 2003 for this program were $164 million, and amounts expected to be recognized in 2004 and 2005 are $19 million and $7 million, respectively. The expected cash expenditures associated with this program are $25 million and $7 million in 2004 and 2005, respectively. Also included in employee termination costs in the above table are $15 million of other employee severance costs. In December 2003, the Company announced that it is targeting an overall reduction in payroll and related expenses of at least 10 percent, excluding payroll expenses associated with customer contact employees and employees dedicated to fulfilling the Companys FDA consent decree obligation. This target includes savings realized from the VERP. The Company expects to incur additional employee termination costs in 2004 associated with achieving its goal of reducing payroll and related expenses. Savings expected to be realized from these actions approximate $150 million annually. The Company expects to reinvest a significant portion of these savings by expanding its sales forces to maximize the ZETIA and ezetimibe/simvastatin opportunities and further support NASONEX, REMICADE and the INTRON franchise. Asset Impairment Losses Asset impairment losses have been recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, and SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. Asset impairment losses related to the following: The Company ceased production of certain products produced at one of its manufacturing sites operating under the FDA consent decree. The Company also announced the closure of its manufacturing site in England. All manufacturing at the site in England has substantially ceased. Sales of all the affected products have 41 Table of Contents not been material. An asset impairment loss of $26 million based on discounted cash flows has been recognized related to the facilities and equipment at these two sites. The Company has ceased marketing a licensed cancer therapy drug that was sold in countries outside the United States. Sales of this product declined and are not material. The introduction of competing products has resulted in a decline in the market share of the Companys drug to the point where management concluded that it was no longer practical to continue to participate in this marketplace. An asset impairment loss of $27 million based on discounted cash flows has been recognized related to this intangible asset. One of the Companys sun care brands competes in the high end segment of the overall sun care market. Two large cosmetics companies have entered this market segment, and sales of the Companys brand have declined. When the Company acquired this brand, a portion of the purchase price was allocated to the trade name based upon its fair value at that time. The Company performs periodic reviews of all values assigned to intangible assets and, in connection with those reviews, an impairment loss of $17 million related to the trade name has been recognized based on discounted cash flows. This reflects the change in market conditions since this brand was acquired. Sales of this sun care brand have not been material. Litigation Charges In 2003 and 2002, litigation reserves have been increased by $350 million and $150 million, respectively, primarily as a result of the investigations into the Companys sales and marketing practices (see Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters footnote for additional information). Consent Decree Charge In 2001, a provision of $500 million was recognized for payments to the federal government under a consent decree (see Consent Decree footnote for additional information). 42 Table of Contents Summary of Selected Special Charges The following summarizes the activity in the accounts related to employee termination costs and asset impairment losses: (Amounts in millions) Employee Asset Termination Impairment Costs Losses 2003 Special charges $ 179 $ 70 Impairment write off (70 ) Credit to retirement benefit plan liability (144 ) Cash disbursement (6 ) Special charges accrual balance at Dec. 31, 2003 $ 29 $ The balance at December 31, 2003, for employee termination costs represents the value of stock grants ($22 million), which will be distributed after year end 2003, and severance and accrued vacation payments to be paid in 2004 ($7 million). EQUITY INCOME FROM CHOLESTEROL JOINT VENTURE Effective in 2003, the Company is presenting its collaboration with Merck to jointly develop and market ZETIA and ezetimibe/simvastatin combination following the equity method of accounting. Under that method, the Company records its share of the operating profits less its share of research and development costs in Equity income from cholesterol joint venture. Included in this line for the full year 2003 are the Companys share of the operating profits of $113 million and a $20 million milestone receipt, less its share of research and development costs of $79 million. It should be noted that the Company incurs substantial costs, such as selling costs, that are not reflected in Equity income from cholesterol joint venture and are borne entirely by the Company. ZETIA was launched in the United States and several international markets in November 2002. Several additional market launches have occurred to date. Global sales of ZETIA were $471 million in 2003. Prior to 2003, the venture was in the research and development phase and the Companys share of research and development expense in 2002 and 2001 of $69 million and $86 million, respectively, was reported in Research and development in the Statements of Consolidated Operations. NET (LOSS)/INCOME Net (loss)/income was a loss of ($92) million in 2003 versus income of $2.0 billion and $1.9 billion in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Net (loss)/income in 2003 includes special charges of $599 million, as described above. Net income in 2002 includes the $150 million pre tax provision to increase litigation reserves, and 2001 includes the $500 million pre tax provision for the consent decree payments. These provisions are both included in special charges. EFFECTIVE TAX RATE For the full year 2003, the effective tax rate was 15 percent excluding the $350 million non tax deductible provision to increase litigation reserves. The effective tax rate was 23 percent for 2002 and 2001. The Company reduced its effective tax rate in 2003 due to the decrease in profits, primarily in the United States. For additional information, see the Income Taxes footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The impact of the potential early termination of the swaps discussed in Liquidity and Financial Resources may result in a higher effective tax rate in 2004 and beyond. (LOSS)/EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE Diluted (loss)/earnings per common share decreased to a loss of ($0.06) in 2003 and increased 2 percent to earnings of $1.34 in 2002. The weakening of the U.S. dollar against most foreign currencies increased growth in earnings per common share in 2003 and 2002. Diluted earnings per share in 2003 and 2002 reflect favorable exchange impacts of $0.05 and $0.01, respectively. The Company advises that the trend in earnings should be viewed with and without the aforementioned special charges and the impact of year to year changes in foreign exchange rates. 43 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES Background The following background information may be useful to the reader in understanding the current state of the Companys liquidity and financial resources. At December 31, 2003, approximately 86 percent of all cash and cash equivalents and short term investments shown in the accompanying balance sheet was held by wholly owned, foreign based subsidiaries. At the same time, substantially all of the debt shown in the accompanying balance sheet was owed by the parent company or wholly owned, U.S. based subsidiaries. In years prior to 2003, this geographic disparity between the location of the funds and the location of debt was not a pivotal issue for the Company. However, with the material decline in earnings following the loss of marketing exclusivity of CLARITIN in the United States, this geographic disparity has taken on more importance. Cash and cash equivalents, plus short term investments, exceeded total debt at December 31, 2003 by $1.4 billion. However, using the funds held by the foreign based subsidiaries for the cash needs of the U.S. based subsidiaries may result in U.S. income tax payments. The amount of any U.S. income tax payments would depend upon a number of factors, including the amount of the funds used and whether the U.S. operations were generating taxable profits or losses. In 2003, the U.S. operations generated tax losses, primarily due to the decline of CLARITIN sales and the continued investment in research and development. For 2003, the entire amount of the U.S. tax losses will be used to recoup taxes paid in previous years (carryback benefit). In 2004, management expects the U.S. operations to again generate tax losses. However, only a portion of these losses is expected to be used to recoup taxes paid in previous years because, under current law, the carryback benefit will be exhausted. The amount of the expected 2004 loss in excess of that used to recoup taxes paid in previous years becomes available to reduce taxable income in the future (carryforward benefit). When the U.S. operations generate losses that cannot be used to recoup taxes paid in previous years, the Company has a choice. It can either use the carryforward benefits in future years, or utilize some or all of those losses to absorb taxable distributions to the U.S. of cash or other assets held by the foreign based subsidiaries. Absorbing the U.S. operating losses in this manner allows a portion of the assets held by the foreign based subsidiaries to become available for use in the U.S. operations without having to make U.S. income tax payments. As discussed below, the Company expects to finance a portion of its cash needs in 2004 and possibly beyond by accessing some of the funds held by the foreign based subsidiaries. The funds that the Company expects to access represent foreign earnings to be generated in 2004 and beyond. The Company does not expect to incur additional U.S. income taxes when accessing these funds because these taxable distributions will be absorbed by the expected U.S. operating 44 Table of Contents losses. Further, as described below, the Company may make additional taxable distributions of funds held by the foreign based subsidiaries to the U.S. operations because the Company has triggered the credit rating downgrade provisions in certain of its financing arrangements. The Company may incur additional U.S. income taxes because these additional distributions from the foreign based subsidiaries may exceed the U.S. operating losses. Discussion of Cash Flow Cash provided by operating activities totaled $601 million in 2003, $1,980 million in 2002 and $2,512 million in 2001. Cash provided by operating activities declined in 2003 due to lower sales of CLARITIN, lower sales of the products within the INTRON franchise and higher manufacturing costs. A portion of the cash flow impact of lower sales was mitigated by the collection of accounts receivable that followed the decline in sales. Cash provided by operating activities in 2003 also includes the second payment of $250 million relating to the FDA consent decree. In previous filings, the Company had reported that, for 2003 and possibly beyond, cash provided by operating activities would not be sufficient to fund working capital, capital expenditures and dividends, if these items remained at the then current levels. In response to the decline in sales and earnings in 2003 as well as the likelihood of further declines in 2004, the Company announced on August 21, 2003, a reduction in the quarterly dividend from 17 cents to 5.5 cents per common share. This action saves approximately $170 million per quarter beginning with the fourth quarter of 2003. On that same day, the Company also announced accelerated and intensified cost cutting actions, including a global workforce reduction effort. As shown in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows for 2003, cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures and dividends exceeded cash from operations. This excess of cash needs over cash generation occurred entirely within the U.S. operations where the deficit was approximately $1,400 million. Foreign operations generated cash in excess of cash needs. In 2003, the Company borrowed additional funds in the United States to finance the U.S. operations while continuing to accumulate cash with the foreign based subsidiaries. In 2004, management expects its foreign operations to generate cash and its U.S. operations to have cash needs. However, excluding any potential payments arising from the litigation and investigations discussed below, the U.S. deficit in 2004 is expected to decline. For 2004, dividend payments will be approximately $500 million less than in 2003, and the Company expects to receive a tax refund in excess of $400 million for the carryback benefit described above. Approximately $600 million of cash was available in the U.S. at December 31, 2003 to pay down commercial paper balances or fund the U.S. operations. The above discussion does not take into consideration any payments that may arise from the matters described in the Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters footnote included in the financial statements to this report. In particular, the Company has accrued material amounts with respect to the investigations being conducted by the U.S. Attorneys Offices in Pennsylvania and 45 Table of Contents Massachusetts and with respect to the dispute with the IRS. At this time, management cannot estimate the ultimate amounts or timing of such potential payments with certainty. Any such payments would increase the cash needs of the U.S. operations and may necessitate additional financing, repatriation of funds held by foreign based subsidiaries or a combination of the two. These matters may also affect the Companys credit ratings and its ability to access commercial paper. If the Companys current cash management strategy and capital structure remain unchanged beyond 2004, management expects both the cash held by the foreign based subsidiaries and the debt owed by the U.S. based subsidiaries to increase. Management is in the process of evaluating whether the present strategies and structure are the most appropriate in light of the increasing debt levels as well as the changing portfolio of the Companys products. Management believes the Company possesses sufficient financial resources to meet all of its financial needs. The Company has in excess of $4 billion in cash and cash equivalents and short term investments, albeit held by foreign based subsidiaries, as well as sizable lines of credit with commercial banks, as described below. Further, management believes the Company has continuing access to the capital markets. Borrowings and Credit Facilities On November 26, 2003, the Company issued $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.3 percent senior unsecured notes due 2013 and $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.5 percent senior unsecured notes due 2033. Proceeds from this offering of $2.4 billion are being used for general corporate purposes, including to repay commercial paper outstanding in the United States. Upon issuance, the notes were rated A3 by Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) and A (on CreditWatch with negative implications) by Standard Poors (SP). The interest rates payable on the notes are subject to adjustment. If the rating assigned to the notes by either Moodys or SP is downgraded below A3 or A , respectively, the interest rate payable on that series of notes will increase. See the Financial Instruments and Commitments footnote included in the financial statements to this report for additional information. The Company has three revolving credit facilities totaling $2 billion. The most recently negotiated facility (September 2003) is a $1 billion, 364 day credit facility from three major financial institutions that can be drawn down in the United States. This facility matures in September 2004. The other facilities are with a syndicate of financial institutions and provide for $500 million that can be drawn down in the United States through May 2004 with repayment due May 2005, and a second multi currency facility for $500 million that can be drawn down in the United States and internationally through the maturity date in May 2006. At December 31, 2003, no funds were drawn under any of these facilities. At December 31, 2003, short term borrowings totaled $1,023 million. Approximately 92 percent of this was outstanding commercial paper. The commercial paper ratings discussed below have not significantly affected the Companys ability to issue or roll over its outstanding commercial paper borrowings at this time. However, the ability of commercial paper issuers, such as the 46 Table of Contents Company, with one or more short term credit ratings of P 2 from Moodys, A 2 from SP and or F2 from Fitch Ratings (Fitch) to issue or roll over outstanding commercial paper can, at times, be less than that of companies with higher short term credit ratings. In addition, the total amount of commercial paper capacity available to such issuers is typically less than that of higher rated companies. The Company maintains sizable lines of credit with commercial banks, as well as cash and short term investments held by foreign based subsidiaries, to serve as alternative sources of liquidity and to support its commercial paper program. Credit Ratings On December 17, 2003, SP lowered the Companys corporate credit and long term debt ratings to A from A and said the outlook on the ratings was negative, noting a weakening in the Companys INTRON franchise and expected declines in earnings and cash flows. There was no change in the Companys short term corporate credit and commercial paper rating, which was lowered to A 1 from A 1 on July 29, 2003. On January 26, 2004, SP placed the Companys corporate credit rating, short term credit rating and senior unsecured debt rating on CreditWatch with negative implications. On February 18, 2004, SP downgraded the Companys senior unsecured debt ratings to A from A. At the same time, SP also lowered the Companys short term corporate credit and commercial paper rating to A 2 from A 1. SP removed the Company from CreditWatch, however, its outlook remains negative. On October 9, 2003, Moodys lowered the Companys corporate credit rating to A 3 from A 1 and lowered its commercial paper rating to P 2 from P 1. Following this rating action, Moodys removed the Company from its Watchlist and revised its rating outlook to stable from negative. Moodys also stated that its credit rating assumed modest outflows to settle outstanding litigation or acquisitions and that a very large payment associated with litigation proceedings or acquisition activity could place pressure on the rating and or outlook. On November 20, 2003, Fitch downgraded the Companys senior unsecured and bank loan ratings to A from A, and its commercial paper rating to F2 from F1. The Companys Rating Outlook remained negative. In announcing the downgrade, Fitch noted that the sales decline in the Companys leading product franchise, the INTRON franchise, was greater than anticipated, and that it was concerned that total Company growth is reliant on the performance of two key growth drivers, ZETIA and REMICADE, in the near term. 47 Table of Contents Financial Arrangements Containing Credit Rating Downgrade Triggers The Company has two separate arrangements that enable it to manage cash flows between its U.S. subsidiaries and its foreign based subsidiaries. Both of these arrangements employ interest rate swaps, and both of these arrangements have similar credit rating downgrade triggers which allow the counterparty to call for early termination. The credit rating downgrade triggers require the Company to maintain a long term debt rating of at least A2 by Moodys or A by SP. Both SPs and Moodys current credit ratings are below this specified minimum. As a result, the counterparty to the interest rate swaps can elect early termination following a specified period, as described below. One of the arrangements utilizes two long term interest rate swap contracts, one between a foreign based subsidiary and a bank and the other between a U.S. subsidiary and the same bank. The two contracts have equal and offsetting terms and are covered by a master netting arrangement. The contract involving the foreign based subsidiary permits the subsidiary to prepay a portion of its future obligation to the bank, and the contract involving the U.S. subsidiary permits the bank to prepay a portion of its future obligation to the U.S. subsidiary. Interest is paid on the prepaid balances by both parties at market rates. Prepayments totaling $1.9 billion have been made under both contracts as of December 31, 2003. The prepaid amounts have been netted in the preparation of the consolidated balance sheet in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 39, Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Contracts. This arrangement provides that in the event the Company fails to maintain the required minimum credit ratings, the counterparty may terminate the transaction by designating an early termination date not earlier than 36 months following the date of such notice to terminate. However, if such notice is given, the early termination consequences discussed below would occur at the end of the three year period. Early termination requires repayment of all prepaid amounts, and repayment must occur in the original tax jurisdiction in which the prepaid amounts were made. Accordingly, early termination would require the Companys U.S. subsidiary to repay $1.9 billion to the bank and for the bank to repay $1.9 billion to the Companys foreign based subsidiary. The financial impact of early termination depends on the manner and extent to which the Company decides to finance its U.S. repayment obligation. The Company could finance its entire obligation by obtaining short or long term financing in the United States. (In this case, cash and debt would increase by equal amounts in the consolidated balance sheet.) However, the Companys ability to finance its obligation under the swaps will depend on the Companys credit ratings and business operations, as well as market conditions, at the time such financing is contemplated. Alternatively, the Company could repatriate to the United States some or all of the funds received by the foreign based subsidiary. Repatriating funds could have U.S. income tax consequences depending primarily on profitability of the U.S. operations. Any such tax would be accrued against future earnings, and may result in the Company reporting a higher effective tax rate. Currently, the U.S. operations are generating tax losses. However, future tax 48 Table of Contents losses may be insufficient to absorb any or all of the potential tax should the Company repatriate some or all of the funds received by the foreign based subsidiary. As stated above, termination of the transaction cannot occur earlier than 36 months following the date on which the Company receives a termination notice from the counterparty. Accordingly, early termination is not imminent. Due to this fact, as well as the alternative courses of action available to the Company in the event of early termination, the potential of early termination does not impact current liquidity and financial resources. The second arrangement utilizes long term interest rate swap contracts, one entered into in 1991 with a notional principal of $650 million and a second entered into in 1992 with a notional principal of $950 million. The terms of these contracts enable the Company to sell the right to receive payments while retaining the obligation to make payments. In 1991 and 1992, the U.S. parent company sold the rights to receive payments under both contracts to a foreign based subsidiary in return for approximately $700 million (fair value). This intercompany transaction has been eliminated in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. (The Internal Revenue Service has asserted that these transactions were not a sale but a loan on which additional U.S. income taxes are due. The Company expects to litigate this matter as described in the Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters footnote to the financial statements.) The contracts allow the counterparty to effectively terminate the transaction if the Company fails to maintain the required minimum credit ratings and within 60 days does not restore at least one of the required minimum credit ratings. The Companys credit rating fell below the required minimum credit rating on February 18, 2004. It is unlikely the Company will restore at least one of its credit ratings in the allotted time. Early termination of these contracts due to a credit rating downgrade would most likely result in the U.S. parent company reacquiring the right to receive payments from its foreign based subsidiary and terminating the transaction with the counterparty on a net basis. The reacquisition of the rights to receive payments under the swap contracts would occur either by the U.S. parent company buying back the rights for their fair market value or by having the foreign based subsidiary dividend the rights back to the U.S. parent company. Buying back the rights would necessitate funding in the United States, which the Company currently estimates would be approximately $450 million. In this case, cash and debt would increase by equal amounts in the consolidated balance sheet. Alternatively, having the foreign based subsidiary dividend the rights back to the U.S. parent company could result in additional U.S. income taxes. Presently, the U.S. operations of the Company are generating tax losses. These losses are expected to exceed the value of the intercompany dividend necessary to reacquire the rights. As a result, in the event of early termination, management has the alternative of reacquiring the rights and terminating the transaction with the counterparty without materially impacting liquidity or financial resources. Accordingly, management does not view early termination of this arrangement to be a material event impacting current liquidity and financial resources. 49 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Payments due by period under the Companys known contractual obligations at December 31, 2003, are as follows: (Dollars in millions) Payments due by period Less More than 1 3 3 5 than Total 1 year years years 5 years Long term debt obligations (1) $ 2,410 $ $ 14 $ 5 $ 2,391 Operating lease obligations 281 69 105 67 40 Purchase obligations: Advertising contracts 95 95 Research contracts (2) 132 132 Capital expenditure commitments 193 184 9 Other purchase orders (3) 925 880 45 Other recorded long term liabilities (4) 517 29 23 19 446 Total $ 4,553 $ 1,389 $ 196 $ 91 $ 2,877 (1) Long term debt obligations include the $1,250 million aggregate principal amount of 5.3 percent senior, unsecured notes due 2013 and $1,150 million aggregate principal amount of 6.5 percent senior, unsecured notes due 2033. See Financial Instruments and Commitments footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (2) Research contracts do not include any potential milestone payments to be made since such payments are contingent on the occurrence of certain events. The table also excludes those research contracts that are cancelable by the Company without penalty. (3) Other open purchase orders consist of both cancelable and noncancelable inventory and expense items. (4) This caption includes obligations, based on undiscounted amounts, for estimated payments under certain of the Companys pension plans that do not hold qualified assets and estimated payments under the Companys deferred compensation plans. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS The Company has responsibilities for environmental cleanup under various state, local and federal laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. Environmental expenditures have not had and, based on information currently available, are not anticipated to have a material impact on the Company. For additional information, see the Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 50 Table of Contents ADDITIONAL FACTORS INFLUENCING OPERATIONS In the United States, many of the Companys pharmaceutical products are subject to increasingly competitive pricing as managed care groups, institutions, government agencies and other groups seek price discounts. In most international markets, the Company operates in an environment of government mandated cost containment programs. In the U.S. market, the Company and other pharmaceutical manufacturers are required to provide statutorily defined rebates to various government agencies in order to participate in Medicaid, the veterans health care program and other government funded programs. Several governments have placed restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic drugs and enacted across the board price cuts as methods to control costs. Since the Company is unable to predict the final form and timing of any future domestic or international governmental or other health care initiatives, including the passage of laws permitting the importation of pharmaceuticals into the United States, their effect on operations and cash flows cannot be reasonably estimated. Similarly, the effect on operations and cash flows of decisions of government entities, managed care groups and other groups concerning formularies and pharmaceutical reimbursement policies cannot be reasonably estimated. The Company cannot predict what net effect the Medicare prescription drug benefit will have on markets and sales. The program does not go into effect until 2006 and many of the Companys leading drugs are already covered under Medicare Part B (e.g. TEMODAR, INTEGRILIN and INTRON A). Others have a relatively small portion of their sales to the Medicare population (e.g. CLARINEX, the hepatitis C franchise). The Company could experience expanded utilization of ZETIA and new drugs in the Companys RD pipeline. Of greater consequence for the Company may be the legislations impact on pricing, rebates and discounts. A significant portion of net sales are made to major pharmaceutical and health care products distributors and major retail chains in the United States. Consequently, net sales and quarterly growth comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of major distributors, retail chains and other trade buyers. These fluctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions or other factors. The market for pharmaceutical products is competitive. The Companys operations may be affected by technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, new products of competitors and generic competition as the Companys products mature. In addition, patent positions are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products. The effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted. As noted in the Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters footnote included in the financial statements to this report, the Company has sued drug manufacturers that are marketing or seeking to market certain forms of generic loratadine prior to the expiration of the Companys compound patent for desloratadine. In each case, the Company has filed suit in federal court seeking a ruling that the applicable Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) or paper New Drug Application submission and proposed marketing of a generic prescription or OTC product 51 Table of Contents constitute infringement of the Companys patents and that the challenge to the patents is without merit. The compound patent for loratadine expired on June 19, 2002, and U.S. market exclusivity for CLARITIN expired on December 19, 2002. A patent covering the compound desloratadine, formulations thereof, and methods of treatment with desloratadine as it relates to CLARITIN is set to expire on April 21, 2004. Six months U.S. market exclusivity would attach to the end of the desloratadine patent as it relates to CLARITIN and would expire on October 21, 2004. This six month period of exclusivity was granted because the Company conducted pediatric clinical trials at the request of the FDA. On August 8, 2002, a federal district court in New Jersey ruled on motions for summary judgment, finding that certain of the desloratadine compound patent claims, which the Company believes protect CLARITIN, were anticipated by a prior patent and, thus, were not valid. On August 1, 2003, the district courts decision was sustained by the appellate court, and on October 28, 2003, the appellate court denied the Companys petition for rehearing. With these rulings, actions against the defendants for infringement of the desloratadine compound patent by manufacturers of loratadine will not proceed. The Company had also asserted that ANDAs filed by two manufacturers for generic versions of CLARITIN D 24 Hour infringe the Companys patent covering CLARITIN D 24 Hour. The Company settled this litigation with Impax and ANDRX in October 2003 and has licensed them under this patent. On November 27, 2002, the Company announced that all five formulations of the CLARITIN brand of non drowsy allergy products had been approved at their original prescription strengths by the FDA as OTC medicines for the treatment of allergies. The Company also has been informed by the FDA that the New Drug Applications (NDAs) for these CLARITIN formulations, as well as for all indications (allergies and hives), will be transferred from the FDAs Pulmonary Division Office of Drug Evaluation II to the Division of Over the Counter Drug Products Office of Drug Evaluation V. The Company launched OTC CLARITIN in the United States in December 2002. Also in December 2002, a competing OTC loratadine product was launched in the United States. In the third quarter of 2003, the Company began to face additional private label competition for its OTC CLARITIN line of nonsedating antihistamines, as the initial 180 day period of exclusivity expired for the first OTC generic competitor. The Company continues to market CLARINEX (desloratadine) 5 mg Tablets for the treatment of allergic rhinitis, which combines the indication of seasonal allergic rhinitis with the indication of perennial allergic rhinitis, as well as the treatment of chronic idiopathic urticaria, or hives of unknown cause. The ability of the Company to capture and maintain market share for CLARINEX and OTC CLARITIN in the U.S. market will depend on a number of factors, including: additional entrants in the market for allergy treatments; clinical differentiation of CLARINEX from other allergy treatments and the perception of the extent of such differentiation in the marketplace; the pricing differentials among OTC CLARITIN, CLARINEX, other allergy treatments and generic OTC loratadine; the erosion rate of OTC CLARITIN and CLARINEX sales upon the entry of additional generic OTC loratadine products; and whether or not one or both of the other branded second generation antihistamines are switched from prescription to OTC status. CLARINEX is experiencing intense competition in the prescription U.S. allergy market. The prescription allergy market has been shrinking since the OTC switch of CLARITIN 52 Table of Contents in December 2002. The Company is implementing new marketing efforts to address market share performance for CLARINEX. The switch of CLARITIN to OTC status and the introduction of competing OTC loratadine has resulted in a rapid, sharp and material decline in CLARITIN sales in the United States and the Companys results of operations. U.S. sales of prescription CLARITIN products were $25 million or 0.3 percent of the Companys consolidated global sales in 2003 and $1.4 billion or 14 percent in 2002. Sales of CLARINEX in the United States and abroad have also been materially adversely affected by the presence of generic OTC loratadine and OTC CLARITIN. In light of the factors described above, management believes that the Companys December 2002 introduction of OTC CLARITIN, as well as the introduction of a competing OTC loratadine product in December 2002 and additional entrants of generic OTC loratadine products in the market, have had a rapid, sharp and material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and will likely continue for an indeterminate period of time. As disclosed in filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and as noted in the Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters footnote included in the financial statements to this report, three drug manufacturers have submitted ANDAs to the FDA seeking to market generic forms of REBETOL (ribavirin) Capsules in the United States before the expiration of the Companys patents covering ribavirin formulations. The Company has sued those manufacturers in federal court for infringement. During 2003, the Company entered into separate licensing agreements with Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, L.L.C. (Three Rivers), Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Geneva) and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva) that settled all patent litigation between the Company, Three Rivers, Geneva and Teva and granted those three companies each a non exclusive, non sublicensable license to the Companys U.S. ribavirin patents. These settlements do not affect Three Rivers, Genevas or Tevas reported patent litigation with Ribapharm, Inc., a subsidiary of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, (Ribapharm), relating to ribavirin patents. That litigation was dismissed upon defendants motion for summary judgment on July 16, 2003. Ribapharm has appealed the summary judgment decision. Ribapharm has also petitioned the FDA to deny approval of the Three Rivers, Geneva and Teva products. The FDA has not acted on the Ribapharm petition. Generic forms of ribavirin are expected to enter the U.S. market in 2004, assuming FDAs approval of a generic ribavirin. The REBETOL patents are material to the Companys business. U.S. sales of REBETOL in 2003 were $306 million. PEG INTRON and REBETOL combination therapy for hepatitis C contributed substantially to sales in 2003 and 2002. During the fourth quarter of 2002, a competing pegylated interferon based combination product, including a brand of ribavirin, received regulatory approval in most major markets, including the United States. The overall market share of the INTRON franchise has declined sharply, reflecting this new market competition. Management believes that the ability of PEG INTRON and REBETOL combination therapy to maintain market share will continue to be adversely affected by new competition in the hepatitis C marketplace. In October 2002, Merck/Schering Plough Pharmaceuticals announced that the FDA approved ZETIA (ezetimibe) 10 mg for use either by itself or together with statins for the treatment of elevated cholesterol levels. In March 2003, the Company announced that ezetimibe (EZETROL, 53 Table of Contents as marketed in Europe) had successfully completed the European Union (EU) mutual recognition procedure (MRP). With the completion of the MRP process, the 15 EU member states as well as Iceland and Norway can grant national marketing authorization with unified labeling for EZETROL. EZETROL has been launched in many international markets. The Merck/Schering Plough partnership is also pursuing the development and marketing of a once daily tablet combining ezetimibe with simvastatin (Zocor), Mercks cholesterol modifying medicine. Uncertainties inherent in government regulatory approval processes, including, among other things, delays in approval of new products, formulations or indications, may also affect the Companys operations. The effect of regulatory approval processes on operations cannot be predicted. The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of various national, state and local regulatory agencies and is, therefore, subject to potential administrative actions. Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States. It has jurisdiction over all the Companys businesses and administers requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, approval, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of the Companys products. From time to time, agencies, including the FDA, may require the Company to address various manufacturing, advertising, labeling or other regulatory issues, such as those noted below relating to the Companys current manufacturing issues. Failure to comply with governmental regulations can result in delays in the release of products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the production and sale of products, discontinuance of products, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions. Any such result could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position and its results of operations. Additional information regarding government regulation that may affect future results is provided in Part I, Item I, Business, in the Companys annual report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. Additional information about cautionary factors that may affect future results is provided under the caption Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial Condition. As noted in the Consent Decree footnote included in the financial statements to this report, on May 17, 2002, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement with the FDA for a consent decree to resolve issues involving the Companys compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices at certain manufacturing facilities in New Jersey and Puerto Rico. The U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey approved and entered the consent decree on May 20, 2002. Under terms of the consent decree, the Company agreed to pay a total of $500 million to the U.S. government in two equal installments of $250 million; the first installment was paid in May 2002 and the second installment was paid in the second quarter of 2003. As previously reported, the Company accrued a $500 million provision for this consent decree in the fourth quarter of 2001. The consent decree requires the Company to complete a number of actions. In the event certain actions agreed upon in the consent decree are not satisfactorily completed on time, the FDA may assess payments for each deadline missed. The consent decree required the Company to develop 54 Table of Contents and submit for FDAs concurrence comprehensive cGMP Work Plans for the Companys manufacturing facilities in New Jersey and Puerto Rico that are covered by the decree. The Company received FDA concurrence with its proposed cGMP Work Plans on May 14, 2003. The cGMP Work Plans contain a number of Significant Steps whose timely and satisfactory completion are subject to payments of $15,000 per business day for each deadline missed. These payments may not exceed $25 million for 2002, and $50 million for each of the years 2003, 2004 and 2005. These payments are subject to an overall cap of $175 million. In connection with its discussions with FDA regarding the Companys cGMP Work Plans, and pursuant to the terms of the decree, the Company and the FDA entered into a letter agreement dated April 14, 2003. In the letter agreement the Company and the FDA agreed to extend by six months the time period during which the Company may incur payments as described above with respect to certain of the Significant Steps whose proposed due dates are December 31, 2005. The letter agreement does not increase the yearly or overall caps on payments described above. In addition, the decree requires the Company to complete programs of revalidation of the finished drug products and bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients manufactured at the covered manufacturing facilities. The Company is required under the consent decree to complete its revalidation programs for bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients by September 30, 2005, and for finished drugs by December 31, 2005. In general, the timely and satisfactory completion of the revalidations are subject to payments of $15,000 per business day for each deadline missed, subject to the caps described above. However, if a product scheduled for revalidation has not been certified as having been validated by the last date on the validation schedule, the FDA may assess a payment of 24.6 percent of the net domestic sales of the uncertified product until the validation is certified. Further, in general, if a product scheduled for revalidation under the consent decree is not certified within six months of its scheduled date, the Company must cease production of that product until certification is obtained. The completion of the Significant Steps in the Work Plans and the completion of the revalidation programs are subject to third party expert certification, which must be accepted by the FDA. The consent decree provides that if the Company believes that it may not be able to meet a deadline, the Company has the right, upon the showing of good cause, to request extensions of deadlines in connection with the cGMP Work Plans and revalidation programs. However, there is no guarantee that FDA will grant any such requests. Although the Company believes it has made significant progress in meeting its obligations under the consent decree, it is possible that (1) the Company may fail to complete a Significant Step or a revalidation by the prescribed deadline; (2) the third party expert may not certify the completion of the Significant Step or revalidation; or (3) the FDA may disagree with an experts certification of a Significant Step or revalidation. In such a case, it is possible that the FDA may assess payments as described above. The Company would expense any payments assessed under the decree if and when incurred. 55 Table of Contents In addition, the failure to meet the terms of the consent decree could result in delays in approval of new products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the production and sale of products, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions. In April 2003, the Company received notice of a False Claims Act complaint brought by an individual purporting to act on behalf of the U.S. government against it and approximately 25 other pharmaceutical companies in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that the pharmaceutical companies, including the Company, have defrauded the United States by having made sales to various federal governmental agencies of drugs that were allegedly manufactured in a manner that did not comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices. The Company and the other defendants filed a motion to dismiss this action on July 23, 2003. The Company is subject to pharmacovigilance reporting requirements in many countries and other jurisdictions, including the United States, the European Union (EU) and the EU member states. The requirements differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but all include requirements for reporting adverse events that occur while a patient is using a particular drug in order to alert the manufacturer of the drug and the governmental agency to potential problems. During pharmacovigilance inspections by officials of the British and French medicines agencies conducted at the request of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA), serious deficiencies in reporting processes were identified. The Company is taking urgent actions to rectify these deficiencies as quickly as possible. The Company does not know what action, if any, the EMEA or national authorities will take in response to these findings. Possible actions include further inspections, demands for improvements in reporting systems, criminal sanctions against the Company and or responsible individuals and changes in the conditions of marketing authorizations for the Companys products. As described more specifically in the Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters footnote included in the financial statements to this report, to which the reader of this report is directed, the pricing, sales and marketing programs and arrangements, and related business practices of the Company and other participants in the health care industry are under increasing scrutiny from federal and state regulatory, investigative, prosecutorial and administrative entities. These entities include the Department of Justice and its U.S. Attorneys Offices, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and various state Attorneys General offices. Many of the health care laws under which certain of these governmental entities operate, including the federal and state anti kickback statutes and statutory and common law false claims laws, have been construed broadly by the courts and permit the government entities to exercise significant discretion. In the event that any of those governmental entities believes that wrongdoing has occurred, one or more of them could institute civil or criminal proceedings, which, if instituted and resolved unfavorably, could subject the Company to substantial fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs, and the Company also cannot predict whether any investigations will affect its marketing practices or 56 Table of Contents sales. Any such result could have a material adverse effect on the Company, its financial condition or its results of operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The following accounting policies are considered significant because changes to certain judgments and assumptions inherent in these policies could affect the Companys financial statements: Accrual of rebates on sales of pharmaceuticals in the United States; Provision for income taxes for undistributed foreign earnings and intercompany pricing matters; Impairment of intangible assets; and Accounting for legal and regulatory matters. Pharmaceutical products are sold to direct purchasers (e.g., wholesalers, retailers and certain health maintenance organizations), and the Company invoices those entities when the products are shipped. In addition, the Company has commercial rebate and discount arrangements with certain indirect purchasers and other market participants (e.g., managed care organizations that indemnify beneficiaries of health plans for their pharmaceutical costs and pharmacy benefit managers) based upon the purchase or utilization of Company products. The Company also has governmental rebate obligations under certain federal and state programs. For purposes of revenue recognition, the Company at the end of each quarter estimates the applicable commercial and governmental rebates that will be paid for products sold during the quarter and nets those estimated amounts from the total direct sales. These rebates are estimated based on terms, historical experience, trend analysis and projected market conditions in the various markets served. In the case of the governmental rebate programs, the Companys payments involve interpretations of relevant statutes and regulations. These interpretations are subject to challenges and changes in interpretive guidance by governmental authorities. The result of such a challenge or change could affect whether the estimated governmental rebate amounts are ultimately sufficient to satisfy the Companys obligations. Additional information on governmental inquiries focused in part on the calculation of rebates is contained in the Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this report. In addition, it is possible that, as a result of governmental challenges or changes in interpretive guidance, actual rebates could materially exceed amounts accrued. As of December 31, 2003, taxes have not been provided on approximately $11.1 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Management has determined that the assets associated with these earnings have been permanently reinvested in the Companys overseas operations. If future events require that certain assets associated with these earnings be repatriated to the United States, additional tax provisions may be necessary. Also with regard to income taxes, certain of the Companys consolidated subsidiaries manufacture pharmaceutical ingredients at facilities located in low tax jurisdictions. These manufacturing subsidiaries sell the pharmaceutical ingredients to other consolidated subsidiaries for further manufacturing and final sale to customers. Taxing authorities throughout the world 57 Table of Contents can challenge the prices charged by the manufacturing subsidiaries. Management believes its pricing is based upon sound economic facts and circumstances. However, a successful challenge by a taxing authority, which management believes is unlikely, could result in additional income tax payments materially in excess of amounts accrued. Intangible assets representing the capitalized costs of purchased goodwill, patents, licenses and other forms of intellectual property totaled $619 million at December 31, 2003. The value of these assets is subject to continuing scientific, medical and marketplace uncertainty. For example, if a marketed pharmaceutical product were to be withdrawn from the market for safety reasons or if marketing of a product could only occur with pronounced warnings, amounts capitalized for such a product may need to be reduced due to impairment. Events giving rise to impairment are an inherent risk in the pharmaceutical industry and cannot be predicted. Management regularly reviews intangible assets for possible impairment. As discussed in the Special Charges section, the Company recognized asset impairment losses in 2003 for intangible assets. Asset impairment losses were recognized for an intangible asset related to a cancer therapy drug due to scientific advancements and for an intangible asset relating to the trade name of a sun care product due to marketplace competition. Management judgments and estimates are also required in the accounting for legal and regulatory matters. In particular, the Company has recognized estimated minimum liabilities in connection with certain of the government investigations into its sales and marketing activities. See Legal, Environmental and Regulatory Matters footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. MARKET RISK DISCLOSURES The Company is exposed to market risk primarily from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, from interest rates and equity prices. The following describes the nature of these risks. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk The Company has subsidiaries in more than 40 countries. In 2003, sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 57 percent of global sales. Virtually all these sales were denominated in currencies of the local country. As such, the Companys reported profits and cash flows are exposed to changing exchange rates. In 2003, changes in foreign exchange rates increased sales by 5 percent and increased 2003 diluted earnings per common share by $0.05. To date, management has not deemed it cost effective to engage in a formula based program of hedging the profits and cash flows of foreign operations using derivative financial instruments. Because the Companys foreign subsidiaries purchase significant quantities of inventory payable in U.S. dollars, managing the level of inventory and related payables and the rate of inventory turnover provides a level of protection against adverse changes in exchange rates. The risk of adverse exchange rate change is also mitigated by the fact that the Companys foreign operations are widespread. 58 Table of Contents In addition, at any point in time, the Companys foreign subsidiaries hold financial assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. These financial assets and liabilities consist primarily of short term, third party and intercompany receivables and payables. Changes in exchange rates affect these financial assets and liabilities. For the most part, however, gains or losses arise from translation and, as such, do not significantly affect net income. On occasion, the Company has used derivatives to hedge specific short term risk situations involving foreign currency exposures. However, these derivative transactions have not been material. Interest Rate and Equity Price Risk The only financial assets exposed to changes in interest rates and or equity prices are the debt and equity securities held in non qualified trusts for employee benefits. These assets totaled $177 million at December 31, 2003. Due to the long term nature of the liabilities that these trust assets will fund, the Companys exposure to market risk is deemed to be low. The only financial obligations exposed to variability in interest expense are short term borrowings. The Company maintains a cash and cash equivalent portfolio well in excess of the amount of short term borrowings. Accordingly, the Company has no net exposure for changes in interest rates relating to its financial obligations. The Company has long term debt outstanding, on which a 10 percent decrease in interest rates would change the fair value of the debt by $130 million. However, the Company does not expect to refund this debt. Interest Rate Swaps In 1991 and 1992, the Company utilized interest rate swaps as part of its international cash management strategy. For additional information, see the Financial Instruments and Commitments footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These swaps subject the Company to a moderate degree of market risk. The Company accounts for these swaps using fair value accounting, with changes in the fair value recorded in earnings. The fair value of these swaps was a liability of $1 million at December 31, 2003, and a liability of $1 million at December 31, 2002. It is estimated that a 10 percent change in interest rate structure could change the fair value of the swaps by less than $1 million. 59 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other sections of this report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company may contain forward looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements relate to expectations or forecasts of future events. They use words such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, forecast, project, intend, plan, potential, will, and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of potential future events, circumstances or future operating or financial performance. You can also identify forward looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. In particular, forward looking statements include statements relating to future actions, ability to access the capital markets, prospective products, the status of product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, development programs, expenses and programs to reduce expenses, the cost of and savings from the VERP, the outcome of contingencies such as litigation and investigations, growth strategy and financial results. Any or all forward looking statements here or in other publications may turn out to be wrong. Actual results may vary materially, and there are no guarantees about the performance of Schering Plough stock. Schering Plough does not assume the obligation to update any forward looking statement. Many factors could cause actual results to differ from Schering Ploughs forward looking statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following: A significant portion of net sales are made to major pharmaceutical and health care products distributors and major retail chains in the United States. Consequently, net sales and quarterly growth comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of major distributors, retail chains and other trade buyers. These fluctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions or other factors. Competitive factors, including technological advances attained by competitors, patents granted to competitors, new products of competitors coming to the market, new indications for competitive products or generic prescription or OTC competition as Schering Ploughs products mature and patents expire on products. Increased pricing pressure both in the United States and abroad from managed care organizations, institutions and government agencies and programs. In the United States, among other developments, consolidation among customers may increase pricing pressures and may result in various customers having greater influence over prescription decisions through formulary decisions and other policies. Government laws and regulations (and changes in laws and regulations) affecting domestic and international operations including health care reform initiatives and drug importation legislation in the United States at the state and federal level and in other 60 Table of Contents countries, as well as laws and regulations relating to trade, antitrust, monetary and fiscal policies, taxes, price controls and possible nationalization. Patent positions can be highly uncertain and patent disputes are not unusual. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively impact sales of existing products or result in injunctive relief and payment of financial remedies. Uncertainties of the FDA approval process and the regulatory approval and review processes in other countries, including, without limitation, delays in approval of new products. Failure to meet Good Manufacturing Practices established by the FDA and other governmental authorities can result in delays in the approval of products, release of products, seizure or recall of products, suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for the production and sale of products, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions. The resolution of manufacturing issues with the FDA discussed in Schering Ploughs 10 Ks, 10 Qs and 8 Ks are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties, including the timing, scope and duration of a resolution of the manufacturing issues, will depend on the ability of Schering Plough to assure the FDA of the quality and reliability of its manufacturing systems and controls, and the extent of remedial and prospective obligations undertaken by Schering Plough. Difficulties in product development. Pharmaceutical product development is highly uncertain. Products that appear promising in development may fail to reach market for numerous reasons. They may be found to be ineffective or to have harmful side effects in clinical or pre clinical testing, they may fail to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, they may turn out not to be economically feasible because of manufacturing costs or other factors or they may be precluded from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. Efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. Major products such as CLARITIN, CLARINEX, INTRON A, PEG INTRON, REBETOL Capsules, REMICADE and NASONEX accounted for a material portion of Schering Ploughs 2003 revenues. If any major product were to become subject to a problem such as loss of patent protection, OTC availability of the Companys product or a competitive product (as has been disclosed for CLARITIN and its current and potential OTC competition), previously unknown side effects; if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced; generic availability of competitive products; or if the product is discontinued for any reason, the impact on revenues could be significant. Further, such information about important new products, such as ZETIA, or important products in our pipeline, may impact future revenues. Unfavorable outcomes of government (local and federal, domestic and international) investigations, litigation about product pricing, product liability claims, other litigation and environmental concerns could preclude commercialization of products, negatively affect the profitability of existing products, materially and adversely impact Schering Ploughs financial condition and results of operations, or contain conditions that impact business operations, such as exclusion from government reimbursement programs. Economic factors over which Schering Plough has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. 61 Table of Contents Instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region due to the location of manufacturing facilities, distribution facilities or customers regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or diseases. Changes in tax laws including changes related to taxation of foreign earnings. Changes in accounting standards promulgated by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the SEC, or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board that would require a significant change to Schering Ploughs accounting practices. For further details and a discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties, see Schering Ploughs past and future SEC filings. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk See the Market Risk Disclosures as set forth in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial Condition and Results of Operation, in this Form 10 K. 62 Table of Contents 
 
