Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below, after certain adjustments, Old Merck recorded an aggregate pretax gain of $2.2 billion in 2008. In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring, Astra purchased an option (the Asset Option) for a payment of $443.0 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to buy Old Mercks interest in the KBI products, excluding the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium (esomeprazole) and Prilosec (the Non PPI Products). AstraZeneca can exercise the Asset Option in the first half of 2010 at an exercise price of $647 million which represents the net present value as of March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be received by the Company from the Non PPI Products (the Appraised Value). On February 26, 2010, AstraZeneca notified the Company that it was exercising the Asset Option. Old Merck also had the right to require Astra to purchase such interest in 2008 at the Appraised Value. In February 2008, Old Merck advised AstraZeneca that it would not exercise the Asset Option, thus the $443.0 million remains deferred but will be recognized when the Asset Option is consummated. In addition, in 1998, Old Merck granted Astra an option (the Shares Option) to buy Old Mercks common stock interest in KBI and, therefore, Old Mercks interest in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable two years after Astras exercise of the Asset Option. Astra can also exercise the Shares Option in 2017 or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a minimum amount provided, in each case, only so long as AstraZenecas Asset Option has been exercised in 2010. The exercise price for the Shares Option is based on the net present value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec as determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain true up mechanisms. Sanofi Pasteur MSD In 1994, Old Merck and Pasteur Mrieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to market human vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in the then existing EU and the European Free Trade Association. Old Merck and Sanofi Pasteur contributed, among other things, their European vaccine businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as Pasteur Mrieux MSD, S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD, S.N.C.). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or through affiliates or branches, in Belgium, Italy, Germany, Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom and through distributors in the rest of its territory. 9 Table of Contents Johnson JohnsonoMerck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company In 1989, Old Merck formed a joint venture with Johnson Johnson to develop and market a broad range of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50% owned joint venture also includes Canada. Significant joint venture products are Pepcid AC (famotidine), an OTC form of Old Mercks ulcer medication Pepcid (famotidine), as well as Pepcid Complete, an OTC product that combines the Companys ulcer medication with antacids (calcium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide). Merial Limited In 1997, Old Merck and Rhne Poulenc S.A. (now sanofi aventis) combined their respective animal health businesses to form Merial Limited (Merial), a fully integrated animal health company, which was a stand alone joint venture, 50% owned by each party. Merial provides a comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to enhance the health, well being and performance of a wide range of animal species. On September 17, 2009, Old Merck sold its 50% interest in Merial to sanofi aventis for $4 billion in cash. The sale resulted in the recognition of a $3.2 billion gain reflected in Other income (expense), net in 2009. Also, in connection with the sale of Merial, Old Merck, sanofi aventis and Schering Plough signed a call option agreement. Under the terms of the call option agreement, following the closing of the Merger, sanofi aventis has an option to require the Company to combine its Intervet/Schering Plough Animal Health business with Merial to form an animal health joint venture that would be owned equally by the Company and sanofi aventis. As part of the call option agreement, the value of Merial has been fixed at $8 billion. The minimum total value received by the Company and its affiliates for contributing Intervet/Schering Plough to the combined entity would be $9.25 billion (subject to customary transaction adjustments), consisting of a floor valuation of Intervet/Schering Plough which is fixed at a minimum of $8.5 billion (subject to potential upward revision based on a valuation exercise by the two parties) and an additional payment by sanofi aventis of $750 million. Based on the valuation exercise of Intervet/Schering Plough and the customary transaction adjustments, if Merial and Intervet/Schering Plough are combined, a payment may be required to be paid by either party to make the joint venture equally owned by the Company and sanofi aventis. This payment would true up the value of the contributions so that they are equal. Any formation of a new animal health joint venture with sanofi aventis is subject to customary closing conditions including antitrust review in the United States and Europe. Prior to the closing of the Merger, the agreements provided Old Merck with certain rights to terminate the call option for a fee of $400 million. The recognition of the termination fee was deferred until the fourth quarter of 2009 when the conditions that could have triggered its payment lapsed. Licenses In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering Plough entered into a licensing agreement with Centocor, Inc., now a Johnson Johnson company, to market Remicade, which is prescribed for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. In 2005, Schering Ploughs subsidiary exercised an option under its contract with Centocor for license rights to develop and commercialize Simponi, a fully human monoclonal antibody. The Company has exclusive marketing rights to both products outside the United States, Japan and certain Asian markets. In December 2007, Schering Plough and Centocor revised their distribution agreement regarding the development, commercialization and distribution of both Remicade and Simponi, extending the Companys rights to exclusively market Remicade to match the duration of the Companys exclusive marketing rights for Simponi. In addition, Schering Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain development costs relating to Simponis auto injector delivery system. On October 6, 2009, the EC approved Simponi as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and other immune system disorders in two presentations a novel auto injector and a prefilled syringe. As a result, the Companys marketing rights for both products extend for 15 years from the first commercial sale of Simponi within the EU following the receipt of pricing and reimbursement approval within the EU. After operating expenses and subject to certain adjustments, the Company is entitled to receive an approximate 60% share of profits on the Companys distribution in the Companys marketing territory. Beginning in 2010, the share of profits will change over time to a 50% share of profits by 2014 for both products and the share of profits will remain fixed thereafter for the remainder of the term. The Company may independently develop and market Simponi for a Crohns disease indication in its territories, with an option for Centocor to participate. Centocor has instituted an arbitration proceeding to terminate this agreement and the Companys rights to distribute these products. See Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 3. Legal Proceedings below. 10 Table of Contents Competition The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Companys operations may be affected by technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post marketing surveillance and generic competition as the Companys products mature. In addition, patent positions are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted. Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as joint ventures, and licenses and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth for the Companys products in that therapeutic category. Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and access. In addressing cost containment pressure, the Company makes a continuing effort to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. In addition, pricing flexibility across the Companys product portfolio has encouraged growing use of its medicines and mitigated the effects of increasing cost pressures on individual medicines. Outside the United States, in difficult government budgetary environments, the Company has worked with payers to encourage allocation of scarce resources to optimize healthcare outcomes, limiting the potentially detrimental effects of government policies on sales growth and access to innovative medicines and vaccines, and to support the discovery and development of innovative products to benefit patients. The Company also is working with governments in many emerging markets in Eastern Europe, Latin America and Asia to encourage them to increase their investments in health and thereby improve their citizens access to medicines. In addition, certain countries within the EU, recognizing the economic importance of the research based pharmaceutical industry and the value of innovative medicines to society, are working with industry representatives to improve the competitive climate through a variety of means including market deregulation. The Company anticipates that the worldwide trend toward cost containment will continue, resulting in ongoing pressures on healthcare budgets. In the United States, major healthcare reform has been introduced and passed in both houses of Congress. A final revised bill which unifies both versions may be considered and adopted into law. The impact of such actions, as well as budget pressures on governments in the United States and other nations, cannot be predicted at this time. As the Company continues to successfully launch new products, contribute to health care debates and monitor reforms, its new products, policies and strategies should enable it to maintain a strong position in the changing economic environment. Although no one can predict the outcome of these and other legislative, regulatory and advocacy initiatives, the Company believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces. Access to Medicines The Company is also committed to improving access to medicines and enhancing the quality of life for people around the world. To cite just one example, The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnerships in 11 Table of Contents Botswana, a partnership between the government of Botswana, the Bill Melinda Gates Foundation and The Merck Company Foundation/Merck Co., Inc., is supporting Botswanas response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and support. To further catalyze access to HIV medicines in developing countries, the Company makes no profit on the sale of its current HIV/AIDS medicines in the worlds poorest countries and those hardest hit by the pandemic, and offers its HIV/AIDS medicines at significantly reduced prices to medium income countries. In February 2007, Old Merck announced that it had again reduced the price of Stocrin in the least developed countries of the world and those hardest hit by the pandemic. Through these and other actions, the Company is working independently and with partners in both the public and private sectors to address the most critical barriers to access to medicines in the developing world. Addressing these barriers requires investments in education, training and health infrastructure and to improve capacity achieved through increased international assistance and sustainable financing. In addition, Old Merck has committed to providing RotaTeq to the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization eligible countries at prices at which it does not profit. Also, in 2009, Old Merck and The Wellcome Trust established the MSD Wellcome Trust Hilleman Laboratories, a joint venture in India to develop vaccines for millions of people in some of the poorest areas of the world. Government Regulation The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. In 1997, the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act (the FDA Modernization Act) was passed and was the culmination of a comprehensive legislative reform effort designed to streamline regulatory procedures within the FDA and to improve the regulation of drugs, medical devices, and food. The legislation was principally designed to ensure the timely availability of safe and effective drugs and biologics by expediting the premarket review process for new products. A key provision of the legislation is the re authorization of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act of 1992, which permits the continued collection of user fees from prescription drug manufacturers to augment FDA resources earmarked for the review of human drug applications. This helps provide the resources necessary to ensure the prompt approval of safe and effective new drugs. In the United States, the government expanded access for senior citizens to prescription drug coverage by enacting the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, which was signed into law in December 2003. Prescription drug coverage began on January 1, 2006. This legislation supports the Companys goal of improving access to medicines by expanding insurance coverage, while preserving market based incentives for pharmaceutical innovation. At the same time, the legislation has helped control the cost of prescription drug costs through competitive pressures and by encouraging the appropriate use of medicines. As mentioned above, in the United States major healthcare reform has been introduced and passed in both houses of Congress. A final revised bill which unifies both versions may be considered and adopted into law. The U.S. Congress has also considered, and may consider again, proposals to increase the governments role in pharmaceutical pricing in the Medicare program. These proposals may include removing the current legal prohibition against the Secretary of the Health and Human Services intervening in price negotiations between Medicare drug benefit program plans and pharmaceutical companies. They may also include mandating the payment of rebates for some or all of the pharmaceutical utilization in Medicare drug benefit plans. In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. For many years, the pharmaceutical industry has been under federal and state oversight with the approval process for new drugs, drug safety, advertising and promotion, drug purchasing and reimbursement programs, and formularies. The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including the introduction of new drugs to the market, in this regulatory environment. The Company continues to work with private and public payors to slow increases in healthcare spending. Also, U.S. federal and state governments have pursued methods to directly reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for 12 Table of Contents which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid, to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and disproportionate share hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria), and to provide minimum discounts of 24% off of a defined non federal average manufacturer price for purchases by certain components of the federal government such as the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense. Initiatives in some states seek rebates beyond the minimum required by Medicaid legislation, in some cases for patients beyond those who are eligible for Medicaid. Under the Federal Vaccines for Children entitlement program, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) funds and purchases recommended pediatric vaccines at a public sector price for the immunization of Medicaid eligible, uninsured, Native American and certain underinsured children. Old Merck was awarded a CDC contract in 2009 for the supply of pediatric vaccines for the Vaccines for Children program. Outside the United States, the Company encounters similar regulatory and legislative issues in most of the countries where it does business. There, too, the primary thrust of governmental inquiry and action is toward determining drug safety and effectiveness, often with mechanisms for controlling the prices of or reimbursement for prescription drugs and the profits of prescription drug companies. The EU has adopted directives concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. The Companys policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Companys business. In January 2008, the EC launched a sector inquiry in the pharmaceutical industry under the rules of EU competition law. As part of this inquiry, Old Mercks offices in Germany were inspected by the authorities beginning in January 2008. The preliminary report of the EC was issued on November 28, 2008, and following the public consultation period, the final report was issued in July 2009. The final report confirmed that there has been a decline in the number of novel medicines reaching the market and instances of delayed market entry of generic medicines and discussed industry practices that may have contributed to these phenomena. While the EC has issued further inquiries with respect to the subject of the investigation, the EC has not alleged that the Company or any of its subsidiaries have engaged in any unlawful practices. The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies and is, therefore, subject to potential administrative actions. Such actions may include seizures of products and other civil and criminal sanctions. Under certain circumstances, the Company on its own may deem it advisable to initiate product recalls. The Company believes that it should be able to compete effectively within this environment. Privacy and Data Protection The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing attention to privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the Companys business, including recently enacted laws and regulations in the United States and internationally requiring notification to individuals and government authorities of security breaches involving certain categories of personal information. Distribution The Company sells its human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Human health vaccines are sold primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Companys professional representatives communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of the Companys pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care professionals in private practice, group practices and managed care organizations. The Companys professional representatives communicate the safety and value of the Companys animal health products to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. The Companys OTC, foot care and sun care products are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets. 13 Table of Contents Raw Materials Raw materials and supplies, which are generally available from multiple sources, are purchased worldwide and are normally available in quantities adequate to meet the needs of the Companys business. Patents, Trademarks and Licenses Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the Companys marketing of human health products in the United States and in most major foreign markets. Patents may cover products per se, pharmaceutical formulations, processes for or intermediates useful in the manufacture of products or the uses of products. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. The FDA Modernization Act includes a Pediatric Exclusivity Provision that may provide an additional six months of market exclusivity in the United States for indications of new or currently marketed drugs if certain agreed upon pediatric studies are completed by the applicant. These exclusivity provisions were re authorized by the Prescription Drug User Fee Act passed in September 2007. Current U.S. patent law provides additional patent term under Patent Term Restoration for periods when the patented product was under regulatory review before the FDA. 14 Table of Contents Patent portfolios developed for products introduced by the Company normally provide market exclusivity. The Company has the following key U.S. patent protection (including Patent Term Restoration and Pediatric Exclusivity) for major marketed products: Product(1) Year of Expiration (in U.S.) Cozaar 2010 Hyzaar 2010 Crixivan 2012 (compound)/2018 (formulation) Maxalt 2012 (compound)/2014 (other) Singulair 2012 Cancidas 2013 (compound)/2015 (composition) Propecia(2) 2013 (formulation/use) Asmanex 2014 (use)/2018 (formulation) Avelox 2014 Integrilin 2014 (compound)/2015 (use/formulation) Nasonex 2014 (use/formulation)/2018(formulation) Temodar(3) 2014 Emend 2015 Follistim/Puregon 2015 PegIntron 2015 (conjugates)/2020 (Mature IFN alpha) Zolinza 2015 Invanz 2016 (compound)/2017 (composition) Zostavax 2016 Zetia/Vytorin 2017 NuvaRing 2018 (delivery system) Noxafil 2019 RotaTeq 2019 Clarinex(4) 2020 (formulation) Comvax 2020 (method of making/vectors) Intron A 2020 Recombivax 2020 (method of making/vectors) Saphris/Sycrest 2020 (use/formulation) (subject to pending Patent Term Restoration application) Januvia/Janumet 2022 (compound)/2026 (salt) Isentress 2023 Gardasil 2026 (method of making/use/product by process) (1) Compound patent unless otherwise noted. (2) By agreement, Dr. Reddys Laboratories may launch a generic on January 1, 2013. (3) In January 2010, a court held the patent for Temodar to be unenforceable. That decision is being appealed. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings Patent Litigation below. (4) By virtue of litigation settlement, generics have been given the right to enter the market as of 2012. While the expiration of a product patent normally results in a loss of market exclusivity for the covered pharmaceutical product, commercial benefits may continue to be derived from: (i) later granted patents on processes and intermediates related to the most economical method of manufacture of the active ingredient of such product; (ii) patents relating to the use of such product; (iii) patents relating to novel compositions and formulations; and (iv) in the United States and certain other countries, market exclusivity that may be available under relevant law. The effect of product patent expiration on pharmaceutical products also depends upon many other factors such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product and the requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other countries. 15 Table of Contents The patents that provide U.S. market exclusivity for Cozaar and Hyzaar expire in April 2010. In addition, the patent for Cozaar will expire in a number of major European markets in March 2010. Hyzaar lost patent protection in major European markets in February 2010. The Company expects that sales of these products will decline rapidly after expiration of these patents, particularly in the United States since there are expected to be multiple sources of generic products at the time of patent expiry. In addition, the patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for Singulair expires in August 2012. The Company expects that within the two years following patent expiration, it will lose substantially all U.S. sales of Singulair, with most of those declines coming in the first full year following patent expiration. Also, the patent for Singulair will expire in a number of major European markets in August 2012 and the Company expects sales of Singulair in those markets will decline significantly thereafter. Additions to market exclusivity are sought in the United States and other countries through all relevant laws, including laws increasing patent life. Some of the benefits of increases in patent life have been partially offset by a general increase in the number of incentives for and use of generic products. Additionally, improvements in intellectual property laws are sought in the United States and other countries through reform of patent and other relevant laws and implementation of international treaties. For further information with respect to the Companys patents, see Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 3. Legal Proceedings Patent Litigation below. Worldwide, all of the Companys important products are sold under trademarks that are considered in the aggregate to be of material importance. Trademark protection continues in some countries as long as used; in other countries, as long as registered. Registration is for fixed terms and can be renewed indefinitely. Royalties received during 2009 on patent and know how licenses and other rights amounted to $218.9 million. Merck also paid royalties amounting to $1.27 billion in 2009 under patent and know how licenses it holds. Research and Development The Companys business is characterized by the introduction of new products or new uses for existing products through a strong research and development program. Approximately 17,200 people are employed in the Companys research activities. Research and development expenses (which included restructuring costs) were $5.8 billion in 2009, $4.8 billion in 2008 and $4.9 billion in 2007. The Company maintains its ongoing commitment to research over a broad range of therapeutic areas and clinical development in support of new products. The Company maintains a number of long term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. The Companys research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the Companys research and development resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific opportunity and commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major impact on human health, on developing best in class approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its new medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. Another important component of the Companys science based diversification is based on expanding the Companys portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and vaccines, but also biologics, peptides and RNAi. Further, Merck moved to diversify its portfolio by creating a new division, Merck BioVentures, which has the potential to harness the market opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by delivering high quality follow on biologic products to enhance access for patients worldwide. The Company will continue to pursue appropriate external licensing opportunities. The integration plans for research and development are focused on integrating the research operations of the legacy companies, including providing an effective transition for employees, realizing projected merger synergies in the form of cost savings and revenue growth opportunities, and maintaining momentum in the Companys late stage pipeline. During 2009, Merck continued implementing a new model for its basic research global operating strategy at legacy Merck Research Laboratories sites. The new model will align franchise and function as well as align resources with disease area priorities and balance capacity across discovery phases and allow the Company to act upon those programs with the highest probability of success. Additionally, across all 16 Table of Contents disease area priorities, the Companys strategy is designed to expand access to worldwide external science and incorporate external research as a key component of the Companys early discovery pipeline in order to translate basic research productivity into late stage clinical success. The Companys clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including anemia, atherosclerosis, cancer, diabetes, heart disease, hypertension, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, migraine, neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis, psychiatric diseases, respiratory disease and womens health. The Company supplements its internal research with an aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late stage compounds, as well as new technologies. In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the United States and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of new chemical compounds through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug or vaccine may be marketed in the United States, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experience are included in the New Drug Application (NDA) for a drug or the Biologics License Application (BLA) for a vaccine or biologic submitted to the FDA for the required approval. Once the Companys scientists discover a new small molecule compound that they believe has promise to treat a medical condition, the Company commences preclinical testing with that compound. Preclinical testing includes laboratory testing and animal safety studies to gather data on chemistry, pharmacology and toxicology. Pending acceptable preclinical data, the Company will initiate clinical testing in accordance with established regulatory requirements. The clinical testing begins with Phase I studies, which are designed to assess safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary pharmacodynamic activity of the compound in humans. If favorable, additional, larger Phase II studies are initiated to determine the efficacy of the compound in the affected population, define appropriate dosing for the compound, as well as identify any adverse effects that could limit the compounds usefulness. If data from the Phase II trials are satisfactory, the Company commences large scale Phase III trials to confirm the compounds efficacy and safety. Upon completion of those trials, if satisfactory, the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies around the world to have the product candidate approved for marketing. There can be no assurance that a compound that is the result of any particular program will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for it to be marketed. Vaccine development follows the same general pathway as for drugs. Preclinical testing focuses on the vaccines safety and ability to elicit a protective immune response (immunogenicity). Pre marketing vaccine clinical trials are typically done in three phases. Initial Phase I clinical studies are conducted in normal subjects to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate. Phase II studies are dose ranging studies. Finally, Phase III trials provide the necessary data on effectiveness and safety. If successful, the Company submits regulatory filings with the appropriate regulatory agencies. Also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility undergoes a pre approval inspection during which production of the vaccine as it is in progress is examined in detail. In the United States, the FDA review process begins once a complete NDA is submitted and received by the FDA. Pursuant to the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA review period targets for NDAs or supplemental NDAs is either six months, for priority review, or ten months, for a standard review. Within 60 days after receipt of an NDA, the FDA determines if the application is sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. The FDA also assesses, at that time, whether the application will be granted a priority review or standard review. Once the review timelines are defined, the FDA will generally act upon the application within those timelines, unless a major amendment has been submitted (either at the Companys own initiative or the FDAs request) to the pending application. If this occurs, the FDA may extend the review period to allow for review of the new information, but by no more than 180 days. Extensions to the review period are communicated to the Company. The FDA can act on an application by issuing an approval letter or a complete response letter. Research and Development Update In connection with the Merger, the Company is assessing its pipeline to identify the most promising, high potential compounds for development. The Company has completed the prioritization of its clinical development 17 Table of Contents programs. The Company is continuing to work on the prioritization of its value adding programs related to currently marketed products and to its preclinical/discovery programs. The Company anticipates that the full prioritization process will be completed by the first half of 2010. In connection with this process, the Company may recognize non cash impairment charges for the cancellation of certain legacy Schering Plough pipeline programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the Merger. These non cash impairment charges, which are anticipated to be excluded from the Companys non GAAP earnings, could be material to the Companys future GAAP earnings. The Company currently has a number of candidates under regulatory review in the United States and internationally. Additionally, the Company has 19 drug candidates in Phase III development. MK 6621, vernakalant (IV), is an investigational candidate for the treatment of atrial fibrillation currently undergoing regulatory review in the EU. In April 2009, Old Merck and Cardiome Pharma Corp. (Cardiome) announced a collaboration and license agreement for the development and commercialization of vernakalant which provides Merck exclusive rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico to the intravenous formulation of vernakalant. Vernakalent (oral) is currently in Phase II development. Merck has exclusive global rights to the oral formulation of vernakalent for the maintenance of normal heart rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation. SCH 418131, MFF, is a combination of two previously approved drugs for the treatment of asthma: mometasone (Asmanex) and formoterol (Foradil). The Company is aiming to create a new option for patients by bringing these two key treatments together. In July 2009, Schering Plough announced that it had filed an NDA with the FDA for MFF. MFF is also currently under regulatory review in the EU. SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, is an oral contraceptive that combines a selective progestin with estradiol, the estrogen that women produce naturally. The drug is currently under regulatory review in the EU. It is in Phase III development for the U.S. market. SCH 900274, Saphris, asenapine, a central nervous system compound for bipolar I disorder and schizophrenia, is currently undergoing regulatory review in the EU. The FDA approved Saphris in August 2009. SCH 900616, Bridion, sugammadex, is a medication designed to rapidly reverse the effects of certain muscle relaxants used as part of general anesthesia to ensure patients remain immobile during surgical procedures. It differs from other reversal agents that can only be administered once the muscle relaxant begins to wear off. Bridion has received regulatory approval in the EU, Australia, New Zealand and Japan, and is under regulatory review in other markets, including the United States. Prior to the Merger, Schering Plough received a complete response letter from the FDA for Bridion. Following further communication from the FDA, the Company is assessing the agencys feedback in order to determine a new timetable for response. SCH 503034, boceprevir, is a hepatitis C protease inhibitor currently under development. Boceprevir is fully enrolled in its Phase III program, which the Company expects to conclude in mid 2010. The Company expects to submit an NDA to the FDA for boceprevir by the end of 2010 for both treatment experienced and treatment nave patients with hepatitis C. MK 8669, ridaforolimus, is a novel mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of cancer. The drug candidate is being jointly developed and commercialized with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc., under an agreement entered into in 2007. A Phase III study (SUCCEED) in patients with metastatic soft tissue or bone sarcomas is underway. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA for ridaforolimus with the FDA in 2010, subject to a review of the results from the planned interim analysis of SUCCEED. SCH 697243, an allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet (AIT) for grass pollen allergy, is being developed by the Company. In November 2009, SCH 697243 met the primary endpoint in a Phase III study of adult subjects in the United States with a history of grass pollen induced rhinoconjunctivitis with or without asthma. The investigational grass AIT treatment is designed to work by inducing a protective immune response against grass pollen allergy and providing sustained prevention of allergy symptoms, treating both the symptoms and the underlying cause of the disease. SCH 039641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in Phase III development for the U.S. market. 18 Table of Contents SCH 530348, vorapaxar, is a thrombin receptor antagonist or antiplatelet protease activated receptor 1 inhibitor being studied for the prevention and treatment of thrombosis. In November 2009, Merck announced completion of patient enrollment of more than 26,000 patients in the TRA 2P TIMI 50 clinical trial, a Phase III, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, multinational study. The trial will assess the ability of SCH 530348 to prevent major cardiovascular events when added to current antiplatelet regimens (aspirin or aspirin plus an ADP inhibitor) in patients who have previously experienced a heart attack or stroke or who have peripheral arterial disease. SCH 530348 is also being studied in the treatment of patients with acute coronary syndrome in the ongoing Phase III Thrombin Receptor Antagonist for Clinical Event Reduction in Acute Coronary Syndrome trial, led by the Duke Clinical Research Institute. The Company anticipates filing an NDA for vorapaxar with the FDA in 2011. MK 2452, tafluprost, is a preservative free, synthetic analogue of the prostaglandin F2 for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. In April 2009, Old Merck and Santen announced a worldwide licensing agreement for tafluprost. As previously disclosed, Old Merck submitted for filing an NDA with the FDA for MK 0653C, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin, which is an investigational medication for the treatment of dyslipidemia, and the FDA refused to file the application. The FDA has identified additional manufacturing and stability data that are needed and the Company is assessing the FDAs response and anticipates filing in 2011. MK 0431C, a candidate currently in Phase III clinical development, combines Januvia with pioglitazone, another type 2 diabetes therapy. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA for MK 0431C with the FDA in 2011. MK 0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once weekly investigational treatment for osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is a disease which reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. In September 2009, data from a Phase IIB clinical study of odanacatib were presented at the 31st Annual Meeting of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research which showed that when stopping treatment after two years the increases in lower back (lumbar spine) bone mineral density (BMD) were reversed over the next year, while BMD at the hip (femoral neck) remained above levels observed at the start of the study. Additionally, three years of treatment with odanacatib 50 mg demonstrated increases in BMD at key fracture sites and minimal impact on the formation of new bone as measured by biochemical markers of bone turnover. Odanacatib is currently in Phase III clinical trials and is being evaluated in a large scale, global outcomes study to determine its effects on vertebral, hip and non vertebral fractures. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in 2012. V503 is a nine valent HPV vaccine in development to expand protection against cancer causing HPV types. The Phase III clinical program is underway and Merck anticipates filing a BLA with the FDA in 2012. MK 0524A is a drug candidate that combines extended release (ER) niacin and a novel flushing inhibitor, laropiprant. MK 0524A has demonstrated the ability to lower LDL cholesterol (LDL C or bad cholesterol), raise HDL cholesterol (HDL C or good cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with significantly less flushing than traditional extended release niacin alone. High LDL C, low HDL C and elevated triglycerides are risk factors associated with heart attacks and strokes. In April 2008, Old Merck received a non approvable action letter from the FDA in response to its NDA for MK 0524A. At a meeting to discuss the letter, the FDA stated that additional efficacy and safety data were required and suggested that Old Merck wait for the results of the Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence of Vascular Events (HPS2 THRIVE) cardiovascular outcomes study, which is expected to be completed in 2012. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA for MK 0524A in 2012. MK 0524A has been approved in more than 45 countries outside the United States for the treatment of dyslipidemia, particularly in patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia (characterized by elevated levels of LDL C and triglycerides and low HDL C) and in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial and non familial) and is marketed as Tredaptive (or as Cordaptive in certain countries). Tredaptive should be used in patients in combination with statins, when the cholesterol lowering effects of statin monotherapy is inadequate. Tredaptive can be used as monotherapy only in patients in whom statins are considered inappropriate or not tolerated. 19 Table of Contents MK 0524B is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to raising HDL C and lowering triglycerides from ER niacin combined with laropiprant with the proven benefits of simvastatin in one combination product. Merck will not seek approval for MK 0524B in the United States until it files its complete response relating to MK 0524A. MK 0859, anacetrapib, is an inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein that has shown promise in lipid management by raising HDL C and reducing LDL C without raising blood pressure. In November 2009, Merck announced that in a Phase IIb study in 589 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed hyperlipidemia treated with anacetrapib as monotherapy or co administered with atorvastatin, there were persistent lipid effects in the higher dose arms in both the monotherapy and co administration treatment groups eight weeks after stopping active therapy with anacetrapib. The effect of CETP inhibition on cardiovascular risk has yet to be established. A Phase III trial, titled DEFINE, is ongoing to further evaluate the safety and efficacy of anacetrapib in patients with coronary heart disease. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2015. As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced it was delaying the filing of the U.S. application for telcagepant (MK 0974), the Companys investigational calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist for the intermittent treatment of acute migraine. The decision was based on findings from a Phase IIa exploratory study in which a small number of patients taking telcagepant twice daily for three months for the prevention of migraine were found to have marked elevations in liver transaminases. The daily dosing regimen in the prevention study was different than the dosing regimen used in Phase III studies in which telcagepant was intermittently administered in one or two doses to treat individual migraine attacks as they occurred. Other studies with telcagepant for the acute, intermittent treatment of migraine continue. Following meetings with regulatory agencies at the end of 2009, Merck is planning to conduct an additional safety study as part of the overall Phase III program for telcagepant. The results of this study will inform planned filings for approval. SCH 900395, acadesine, is a potential first in class adenosine regulating agent for ischemia reperfusion injury in patients undergoing heart bypass surgery. Patient enrollment in the RED CABG Phase III clinical trial was initiated in 2009. SCH 417690, vicriviroc, for the treatment of HIV infection (treatment experienced) was evaluated in two Phase III studies in this patient population, and it was announced in January 2010 that the primary efficacy endpoint was not met. Merck will not submit an NDA to the FDA for vicriviroc in treatment experienced HIV infected patients at this time but will continue to evaluate vicriviroc as first line therapy for treatment naive patients. As previously disclosed, in 2007, Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Cubist) entered into a license agreement with Old Merck for the development and commercialization of Cubicin (daptomycin for injection, MK 3009) in Japan. Merck will develop and commercialize Cubicin through its wholly owned subsidiary, Banyu Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Cubist commercializes Cubicin in the United States. MK 3009 is currently in Phase III development. MK 4305 is an orexin receptor antagonist, a potential new approach to the treatment of chronic insomnia, currently in Phase III development. SCH 900962, Elonva, corifollitropin alpha injection, which has been approved in the EC for controlled ovarian stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the development of multiple follicles in women participating in an assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in Phase III development in the United States. Merck has terminated the internal clinical development program for esmirtazapine (SCH 900265) for hot flashes and insomnia for strategic reasons. As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced that preliminary results for the pivotal Phase III study of rolofylline (MK 7418), its investigational medicine for the treatment of acute heart failure, showed that rolofylline did not meet the primary or secondary efficacy endpoints. Old Merck terminated the clinical development program for rolofylline. The chart below reflects the Companys current research pipeline as of February 12, 2010. Candidates shown in Phase III include specific products. Candidates shown in Phase II include the most advanced compound with a specific mechanism or, if listed compounds have the same mechanism, they are each currently intended for 20 Table of Contents commercialization in a given therapeutic area. Small molecules and biologics are given MK number or SCH number designations and vaccine candidates are given V number designations. Candidates in Phase I, additional indications in the same therapeutic area and additional claims, line extensions or formulations for in line products are not shown. Phase II Allergy SCH 900237(2) Anemia MK 2578 Asthma MK 0476C Atrial Fibrillation MK 6621 (vernakalant [oral]) Cancer MK 0646 (dalotuzumab) SCH 727965 (dinaciclib) SCH 900776 Clostridium difficile Infection MK 3415A COPD SCH 527123 Diabetes MK 0941 MK 3577 Hepatitis C MK 7009 (vaniprevir) HIV SCH 417690 (vicriviroc) Hot Flashes MK 6913 Hypertension MK 0736 Insomnia MK 6096 Osteoporosis MK 5442 Parkinsons Disease SCH 420814 (preladenant) Pediatric Vaccine V419 Progeria SCH 066336, Sarasar (lonafarnib) Schizophrenia MK 8998 SCH 900435 Staph Infection V710 Thrombosis MK 4448 (betrixaban) Phase III(6) Allergy SCH 697243, Grass pollen(2) SCH 039641, Ragweed(2) Anesthesia Reversal SCH 900616 (sugammadex) (U.S.)(4) Atherosclerosis MK 0524A (extended release niacin/ laropiprant) (U.S.)(3) MK 0524B (extended release niacin/ laropiprant/simvastin) MK 0859 (anacetrapib) Cervical Cancer V503 Contraception SCH 900121 (NOMAC/E2) (U.S.) Diabetes MK 0431C (Januvia/pioglitazone) Fertility SCH 900962 (corifollitropin alfa injection) (U.S.)(3) Glaucoma MK 2452 (tafluprost) (U.S.)(4) Hepatitis C SCH 503034 (boceprevir) Insomnia MK 4305 Ischemia Reperfusion Injury SCH 900395 (acadesine) Migraine MK 0974 (telcagepant) Osteoporosis MK 0822 (odanacatib) Sarcoma MK 8669 (ridaforolimus) Staph Infection MK 3009 (daptomycin for injection)(5) Thrombosis SCH 530348 (vorapaxar) (TRA) Under Review Asthma SCH 418131 (momestasone/ formoterol combination) (U.S./EU) Atrial Fibrillation MK 6621 (vernakalant [IV]) (EU)(1) Contraception SCH 900121 (NOMAC/E2) (EU) Schizophrenia/Bipolar I Disorder SCH 900274 (asenapine) (EU) Footnotes: (1) Exclusive rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico to vernakalant (IV) (2) North American rights only (3) Approved in certain countries in Europe (4) Approved in certain countries in Europe and Japan (5) Japanese rights only (6) MK 0653C fixed dose combination of ezetimibe and atorvastatin is anticipated to be submitted to the U.S. FDA in 2011 and commercialized when regulatory and legal requirements have been satisfied Employees As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately 100,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 42,000 employed in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Approximately 28% of worldwide employees of the Company are represented by various collective bargaining groups. In October 2008, Old Merck announced a global restructuring program (the 2008 Restructuring Program) to reduce its cost structure, increase efficiency, and enhance competitiveness. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, the Company expects to eliminate approximately 7,200 positions 6,800 active employees and 400 vacancies across all areas of the Company worldwide by the end of 2011. About 40% of the total 21 Table of Contents reductions will occur in the United States. As part of the 2008 Restructuring Program, Old Merck is streamlining management layers by reducing its total number of senior and mid level executives globally. Prior to the Merger, Schering Plough commenced a Productivity Transformation Program, which was designed to reduce and avoid costs and increase productivity. In February 2010, the Company announced the first phase of a new global restructuring program (the Merger Restructuring Program) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy Merck and legacy Schering Plough businesses. This Merger Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure of the combined Company. As part of the first phase of the Merger Restructuring Program, by the end of 2012, the Company expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately 15% across all areas of the Company worldwide. The Company also plans to eliminate 2,500 vacant positions as part of the first phase of the program. These workforce reductions will primarily come from the elimination of duplicative positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the consolidation of certain manufacturing facilities and research and development operations. Environmental Matters The Company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. In 2009, Merck incurred capital expenditures of approximately $33.6 million for environmental protection facilities. The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $16.6 million in 2009, $34.5 million in 2008, $19.5 million in 2007, and are estimated at $55 million for the years 2010 through 2013. These amounts do not consider potential recoveries from other parties. The Company has taken an active role in identifying and providing for these costs and, in managements opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters, which are probable and reasonably estimable, have been accrued and totaled $161.8 million at December 31, 2009. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these environmental matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $170.0 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. Geographic Area Information The Companys operations outside the United States are conducted primarily through subsidiaries. Sales worldwide by subsidiaries outside the United States were 47% of sales in 2009, 44% of sales in 2008 and 39% of sales in 2007. The increase in proportion of sales outside the United States in 2009 is primarily due to the inclusion of results of Schering Plough following the close of the Merger. The Companys worldwide business is subject to risks of currency fluctuations, governmental actions and other governmental proceedings abroad. The Company does not regard these risks as a deterrent to further expansion of its operations abroad. However, the Company closely reviews its methods of operations and adopts strategies responsive to changing economic and political conditions. As a result of the Merger, Merck has expanded its operations in countries located in Latin America, the Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific. Business in these developing areas, while sometimes less stable, offers important opportunities for growth over time. Financial information about geographic areas of the Companys business is discussed in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. Merck Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries ($ in millions except per share amounts) 2009(1) 2008(2) 2007(3) 2006(4) 2005(5) Results for Year: Sales $27,428.3 $23,850.3 $24,197.7 $22,636.0 $22,011.9 Materials and production costs 9,018.9 5,582.5 6,140.7 6,001.1 5,149.6 Marketing and administrative expenses 8,543.2 7,377.0 7,556.7 8,165.4 7,155.5 Research and development expenses 5,845.0 4,805.3 4,882.8 4,782.9 3,848.0 Restructuring costs 1,633.9 1,032.5 327.1 142.3 322.2 Equity income from affiliates (2,235.0 ) (2,560.6 ) (2,976.5 ) (2,294.4 ) (1,717.1 ) U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge 4,850.0 Other (income) expense, net (10,669.5 ) (2,318.1 ) (75.2 ) (503.2 ) (232.0 ) Income before taxes 15,291.8 9,931.7 3,492.1 6,341.9 7,485.7 Taxes on income 2,267.6 1,999.4 95.3 1,787.6 2,732.6 Net income 13,024.2 7,932.3 3,396.8 4,554.3 4,753.1 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 122.9 123.9 121.4 120.5 121.8 Net income attributable to Merck Co., Inc. 12,901.3 7,808.4 3,275.4 4,433.8 4,631.3 Preferred stock dividends 2.1 Net income available to common shareholders 12,899.2 7,808.4 3,275.4 4,433.8 4,631.3 Basic earnings per common share available to common shareholders $5.67 $3.65 $1.51 $2.03 $2.10 Earnings per common share assuming dilution available to common shareholders $5.65 $3.63 $1.49 $2.02 $2.10 Cash dividends declared 3,599.8 3,250.4 3,310.7 3,318.7 3,338.7 Cash dividends paid per common share $1.52 (6) $1.52 $1.52 $1.52 $1.52 Capital expenditures 1,460.6 1,298.3 1,011.0 980.2 1,402.7 Depreciation 1,654.3 1,445.1 1,752.4 2,098.1 1,544.2 Average common shares outstanding (millions) 2,268.2 2,135.8 2,170.5 2,177.6 2,197.0 Average common shares outstanding assuming dilution (millions) 2,273.2 2,142.5 2,189.8 2,184.1 2,199.2 Year End Position: Working capital 12,677.9 $4,793.9 $2,787.2 $2,507.5 $7,806.9 Property, plant and equipment, net 18,273.5 11,999.6 12,346.0 13,194.1 14,398.2 Total assets 112,089.7 47,195.7 48,350.7 44,569.8 44,845.8 Long term debt 16,074.9 3,943.3 3,915.8 5,551.0 5,125.6 Total equity 61,492.6 21,167.1 20,591.4 19,965.8 20,384.9 Year End Statistics: Number of stockholders of record 175,600 165,700 173,000 184,200 198,200 Number of employees 100,000 55,200 59,800 60,000 61,500 (1) Amounts for 2009 include the impact of the merger with Schering Plough Corporation on November 3, 2009, including the recognition of a gain representing the fair value step up of Mercks previously held interest in the Merck/Schering Plough partnership as a result of obtaining a controlling interest and increased materials and production costs as a result of the amortization of intangible assets and inventory step up. Also included in 2009, is a gain on the sale of Mercks interest in Merial Limited, the favorable impact of certain tax items, the impact of restructuring actions and additional legal defense costs. (2) Amounts for 2008 include a gain on distribution from AstraZeneca LP, a gain related to the sale of the remaining worldwide rights to Aggrastat, the favorable impact of certain tax items, the impact of restructuring actions, additional legal defense costs and an expense for a contribution to the Merck Company Foundation. (3) Amounts for 2007 include the impact of the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge, restructuring actions, a civil governmental investigations charge, an insurance arbitration settlement gain, in process research and development expense resulting from an acquisition, additional Vioxx legal defense costs, gains on sales of assets and product divestitures, as well as a net gain on the settlements of certain patent disputes. (4) Amounts for 2006 include the impact of restructuring actions, in process research and development expenses resulting from acquisitions, additional Vioxx legal defense costs and the adoption of a new accounting standard requiring the expensing of stock options. (5) Amounts for 2005 include the impact of the net tax charge primarily associated with the American Jobs Creation Act repatriation, restructuring actions and additional Vioxx legal defense costs. (6) Amount reflects dividends paid to common shareholders of Old Merck. In addition, approximately $144 million of dividends were paid subsequent to the merger with Schering Plough, and $431 million were paid prior to the merger, relating to common stock and preferred stock dividends declared by Schering Plough in 2009. 62 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Description of Mercks Business On November 3, 2009, Merck Co., Inc. (Old Merck) and Schering Plough Corporation (Schering Plough) completed their previously announced merger (the Merger). In the Merger, Schering Plough acquired all of the shares of Old Merck, which became a wholly owned subsidiary of Schering Plough and was renamed Merck Sharp Dohme Corp. Schering Plough continued as the surviving public company and was renamed Merck Co., Inc. (New Merck or the Company). However, for accounting purposes only, the Merger was treated as an acquisition with Old Merck considered the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, the accompanying financial statements reflect Old Mercks stand alone operations as they existed prior to the completion of the Merger. The results of Schering Ploughs business have been included in New Mercks financial statements only for periods subsequent to the completion of the Merger. Therefore, New Mercks financial results for 2009 do not reflect a full year of legacy Schering Plough operations. References in this report and in the accompanying financial statements to Merck for periods prior to the Merger refer to Old Merck and for periods after the completion of the Merger to New Merck. The Company is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies, and consumer and animal products, which it markets directly and through its joint ventures. The Companys operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of one reportable segment, which is the Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventative pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Companys professional representatives communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of its pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care professionals in private practice, group practices and managed care organizations. The Company also has animal health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines. The Companys professional representatives communicate the safety and value of the Companys animal health products to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Additionally, the Company has consumer health care operations that develop, manufacture and market Over the Counter (OTC), foot care and sun care products, which are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets in the United States and Canada. Overview As discussed above, the Merger was completed on November 3, 2009. In the Merger, Old Merck shareholders received one share of common stock of New Merck for each share of Old Merck stock that they owned, and Schering Plough shareholders received 0.5767 of a share of common stock of New Merck and $10.50 in cash for each share of Schering Plough stock that they owned. The consideration in the Merger was valued at $49.6 billion in the aggregate. Schering Plough was Old Mercks long term partner in the Merck/Schering Plough cholesterol partnership (the MSP Partnership). The cash portion of the consideration was funded with a combination of existing cash, including proceeds from the sale of Old Mercks interest in Merial Limited, the sale or redemption of investments and the issuance of debt. The combined company has a research and development pipeline with greater depth and breadth and many promising drug candidates, a significantly broader portfolio of medicines and an expanded presence in key international markets, particularly in high growth emerging markets. The Company anticipates that the efficiencies gained from the Merger will allow it to invest in promising pipeline candidates, as well as strategic external research and development opportunities. The combination increased the Companys pipeline of early, mid and late stage product candidates, including a significant increase in the number of potential medicines the Company has in Phase III development to 63 Table of Contents 19 candidates. Additionally, a number of candidates are currently under review in the United States and internationally. The Merger also is expected to accelerate the expansion into therapeutic areas that Old Merck has focused on in recent years with the addition of Schering Ploughs established presence and expertise in oncology, neuroscience and novel biologics. Further, the Merger is expected to broaden the Companys commercial portfolio with leading franchises in key therapeutic areas, including cardiovascular, respiratory, oncology, neuroscience, infectious diseases, immunology and womens health. Additionally, the combined company is expected to realize potential benefits from its animal health business and portfolio of consumer health brands, including Claritin, Coppertone and Dr. Scholls. Many of the legacy Schering Ploughs products are expected to have long periods of marketing exclusivity and, by leveraging the combined companys expanded product offerings, the Company expects to benefit from additional revenue growth opportunities. For example, the combined company is expected to have expanded opportunities for life cycle management through the introduction of potential new combinations and formulations of existing products of the two legacy companies. Also, the Company will have an expanded global presence and a more geographically diverse revenue base. Schering Ploughs significant international presence will accelerate Old Mercks own international growth efforts. During 2009, revenue increased 15% driven largely by the incremental sales resulting from the inclusion of the post Merger results of legacy Schering Plough products, such as Remicade, a treatment for inflammatory diseases, Temodar, a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, Nasonex nasal spray, an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, and PegIntron for treating chronic hepatitis C, as well as the recognition of revenue from sales of Zetia and Vytorin, cholesterol modifying medicines. Prior to the Merger, sales of Zetia and Vytorin were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is now wholly owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these products for the post Merger period are reflected in Sales. Additionally, the Company recognized sales in the post Merger period from legacy Schering Plough animal health and consumer health care products. Also contributing to the sales increase was growth in Januvia and Janumet for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, Isentress, an antiretroviral therapy for the treatment of HIV infection, Singulair, a medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, Varivax, a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella), and Pneumovax, a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Fosamax for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis. Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D lost market exclusivity for substantially all formulations in the United States in February 2008 and April 2008, respectively. Revenue was also negatively affected by lower sales of Gardasil, a vaccine to help prevent cervical, vulvar and vaginal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions, and genital warts caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) types 6, 11, 16 and 18, Cosopt/Trusopt, ophthalmic products which lost U.S. market exclusivity in October 2008, and lower revenue from the Companys relationship with AstraZeneca LP (AZLP). Other products experiencing declines include RotaTeq, a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, Zocor, the Companys statin for modifying cholesterol and Primaxin for the treatment of bacterial infections. As a result of the Merger, the Company expects to achieve substantial cost savings across all areas, including from consolidation in both sales and marketing and research and development, the application of the Companys lean manufacturing and sourcing strategies to the expanded operations, and the full integration of the MSP Partnership. In February 2010, the Company announced the first phase of a new global restructuring program (the Merger Restructuring Program) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy Merck and legacy Schering Plough businesses. This Merger Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure of the combined Company. As part of the first phase of the Merger Restructuring Program, by the end of 2012, the Company expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately 15% across all areas of the Company worldwide. The Company also plans to eliminate 2,500 vacant positions as part of the first phase of the program. These workforce reductions will primarily come from the elimination of duplicative positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the consolidation of certain manufacturing facilities and research and development operations. The Company will continue to hire new employees in strategic growth areas of the business during this period. Certain actions, such as the ongoing reevaluation of manufacturing and research and development facilities 64 Table of Contents worldwide have not yet been completed, but will be included later in 2010 in other phases of the Merger Restructuring Program. In connection with the first phase of the Merger Restructuring Program, separation costs under the Companys existing severance programs worldwide were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009 to the extent such costs were probable and reasonably estimable. The Company recorded pretax restructuring costs of $1.5 billion, primarily employee separation costs, related to the Merger Restructuring Program in the fourth quarter of 2009. This first phase of the Merger Restructuring Program is expected to be completed by the end of 2012 with the total pretax costs estimated to be $2.6 billion to $3.3 billion. The Company estimates that approximately 85% of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation expense. Approximately 15% of the cumulative pretax costs are non cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested. The Company expects this first phase of the Merger Restructuring Program to yield annual savings in 2012 of approximately $2.6 billion to $3.0 billion. These anticipated savings relate only to the first phase of the Merger Restructuring Program and therefore are only a portion of the estimated $3.5 billion of incremental annual savings originally disclosed when the Merger was announced. The Company expects that additional savings will be generated by subsequent phases of the Merger Restructuring Program that will be announced later this year, as well as by non restructuring related activities, such as procurement savings initiatives. These cost savings, which are expected to come from all areas of the Companys pharmaceutical business, are in addition to the previously announced ongoing cost reduction initiatives at both legacy companies. As a result of the Merger, the Company obtained a controlling interest in the MSP Partnership and it is now owned 100% by the Company. Accordingly, the Company was required to remeasure Mercks previously held equity interest in the MSP Partnership at its merger date fair value and recognize the resulting gain in earnings. As a result, the Company recorded a gain of $7.5 billion recognized in Other (income) expense, net in 2009. Also during 2009, Old Merck sold its 50% interest in Merial Limited (Merial) to sanofi aventis for $4 billion in cash. The sale resulted in the recognition of a $3.2 billion gain reflected in Other (income) expense, net in 2009. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Earnings per common share (EPS) assuming dilution for 2009 were $5.65, which reflect a net impact of $2.40 resulting from gains related to the MSP Partnership and the sale of Merial, partially offset by increased expenses from the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring and merger related costs. EPS in 2009 were also affected by the dilutive impact of shares issued in the Merger. Competition and the Health Care Environment Competition The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Companys operations may be affected by technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post marketing surveillance and generic competition as the Companys products mature. In addition, patent positions are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted. Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances such as joint ventures and licenses and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacement, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of 65 Table of Contents compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth for the Companys products in that therapeutic category. Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and access. In addressing cost containment pressure, the Company makes a continuing effort to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for healthcare. In addition, pricing flexibility across the Companys product portfolio has encouraged growing use of its medicines and mitigated the effects of increasing cost pressures on individual medicines. Outside the United States, in difficult government budgetary environments, the Company has worked with payers to encourage allocation of scarce resources to optimize healthcare outcomes, limiting the potentially detrimental effects of government policies on sales growth and access to innovative medicines and vaccines, and to support the discovery and development of innovative products to benefit patients. The Company also is working with governments in many emerging markets in Eastern Europe, Latin America and Asia to encourage them to increase their investments in health and thereby improve their citizens access to medicines. In addition, certain countries within the European Union (EU), recognizing the economic importance of the research based pharmaceutical industry and the value of innovative medicines to society, are working with industry representatives to improve the competitive climate through a variety of means including market deregulation. The Company anticipates that the worldwide trend toward cost containment will continue, resulting in ongoing pressures on healthcare budgets. In the United States, major healthcare reform has been introduced and passed in both houses of Congress. A final revised bill which unifies both versions may be considered and adopted into law. The impact of such actions, as well as budget pressures on governments in the United States and other nations, cannot be predicted at this time. As the Company continues to successfully launch new products, contribute to healthcare debates and monitor reforms, its new products, policies and strategies should enable it to maintain a strong position in the changing economic environment. Although no one can predict the outcome of these and other legislative, regulatory and advocacy initiatives, the Company believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving healthcare environment and market forces. Access to Medicines The Company is also committed to improving access to medicines and enhancing the quality of life for people around the world. To cite just one example, The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnerships in Botswana, a partnership between the government of Botswana, the Bill Melinda Gates Foundation and The Merck Company Foundation/Merck Co., Inc., is supporting Botswanas response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and support. To further catalyze access to HIV medicines in developing countries, the Company makes no profit on the sale of its current HIV/AIDS medicines in the worlds poorest countries and those hardest hit by the pandemic, and offers its HIV/AIDS medicines at significantly reduced prices to medium income countries. In February 2007, Old Merck announced that it had again reduced the price of Stocrin in the least developed countries of the world and those hardest hit by the pandemic. Through these and other actions, the Company is working independently and with partners in both the public and private sectors to address the most critical barriers to access to medicines in the developing world. Addressing these barriers requires investments in education, training and health infrastructure and to improve capacity in developing countries achieved through increased international assistance and sustainable financing. In addition, Old Merck has committed to providing RotaTeq, its vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, to the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization eligible countries at prices at which it does not profit. Also, in 2009, Old Merck and The Wellcome Trust established the MSD Wellcome Trust Hilleman Laboratories, a joint venture in India to develop vaccines for millions of people in some of the poorest areas of the world. Government Regulation The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. Of particular importance is the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements have increased the amount of 66 Table of Contents time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. In 1997, the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act (the FDA Modernization Act) was passed and was the culmination of a comprehensive legislative reform effort designed to streamline regulatory procedures within the FDA and to improve the regulation of drugs, medical devices, and food. The legislation was principally designed to ensure the timely availability of safe and effective drugs and biologics by expediting the premarket review process for new products. A key provision of the legislation is the re authorization of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act of 1992, which permits the continued collection of user fees from prescription drug manufacturers to augment FDA resources earmarked for the review of human drug applications. This helps provide the resources necessary to ensure the prompt approval of safe and effective new drugs. In the United States, the government expanded access for senior citizens to prescription drug coverage by enacting the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, which was signed into law in December 2003. Prescription drug coverage began on January 1, 2006. This legislation supports the Companys goal of improving access to medicines by expanding insurance coverage, while preserving market based incentives for pharmaceutical innovation. At the same time, the legislation has helped control the cost of prescription drug costs through competitive pressures and by encouraging the appropriate use of medicines. As mentioned above, in the United States major healthcare reform has been introduced and passed in both houses of Congress. A final revised bill which unifies both versions may be considered and adopted into law. The U.S. Congress also considered, and may consider again, proposals to increase the governments role in pharmaceutical pricing in the Medicare program. These proposals may include removing the current legal prohibition against the Secretary of the Health and Human Services intervening in price negotiations between Medicare drug benefit program plans and pharmaceutical companies. They may also include mandating the payment of rebates for some or all of the pharmaceutical utilization in Medicare drug benefit plans. In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. For many years, the pharmaceutical industry has been under federal and state oversight with the approval process for new drugs, drug safety, advertising and promotion, drug purchasing and reimbursement programs, and formularies. The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including the introduction of new drugs to the market, in this regulatory environment. The Company continues to work with private and public payors to slow increases in healthcare spending. Also, U.S. federal and state governments have pursued methods to directly reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid, to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and disproportionate share hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria), and to provide minimum discounts of 24% off of a defined non federal average manufacturer price for purchases by certain components of the federal government such as the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense. Initiatives in some states seek rebates beyond the minimum required by Medicaid legislation, in some cases for patients beyond those who are eligible for Medicaid. Under the Federal Vaccines for Children entitlement program, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) funds and purchases recommended pediatric vaccines at a public sector price for the immunization of Medicaid eligible, uninsured, Native American and certain underinsured children. Old Merck was awarded a CDC contract in 2009 for the supply of pediatric vaccines for the Vaccines for Children program. Outside the United States, the Company encounters similar regulatory and legislative issues in most of the countries where it does business. There, too, the primary thrust of governmental inquiry and action is toward determining drug safety and effectiveness, often with mechanisms for controlling the prices of or reimbursement for prescription drugs and the profits of prescription drug companies. The EU has adopted directives concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. The Companys policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Companys business. In January 2008, the European Commission (EC) launched a sector inquiry in the pharmaceutical industry under the rules of EU competition law. As part of this inquiry, Old Mercks offices in Germany were inspected by the authorities beginning in January 2008. The preliminary report of the EC was issued on November 28, 2008, and following the public consultation period, the final report was issued in July 2009. The final report confirmed that there has been a decline in the number of novel medicines reaching the market and instances of delayed market entry of generic medicines and discussed industry practices that may have contributed 67 Table of Contents to these phenomena. While the EC has issued further inquiries with respect to the subject of the investigation, the EC has not alleged that the Company or any of its subsidiaries have engaged in any unlawful practices. The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies and is, therefore, subject to potential administrative actions. Such actions may include seizures of products and other civil and criminal sanctions. Under certain circumstances, the Company on its own may deem it advisable to initiate product recalls. The Company believes that it should be able to compete effectively within this environment. Privacy and Data Protection The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing attention to privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the Companys business, including recently enacted laws and regulations in the United States and internationally requiring notification to individuals and government authorities of security breaches involving certain categories of personal information. Operating Results Sales Worldwide sales totaled $27.4 billion for 2009, an increase of 15% compared with 2008. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 2%. The revenue increase over 2008 largely reflects incremental sales resulting from the inclusion of the post Merger results of legacy Schering Plough products such as Remicade, Temodar, Nasonex nasal spray, and PegIntron, as well as the recognition of revenue from sales of Zetia and Vytorin. Prior to the Merger, sales of Zetia and Vytorin were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is now wholly owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these products for the post Merger period are reflected in Sales. Additionally, the Company recognized sales in the post Merger period from legacy Schering Plough animal health and consumer healthcare products. Also contributing to the sales increase was growth in Januvia and Janumet, Isentress, Singulair, Varivax and Pneumovax. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D, which lost market exclusivity for substantially all formulations in the United States in February 2008 and April 2008, respectively. Revenue was also negatively affected by lower sales of Gardasil, Cosopt/Trusopt, which lost U.S. market exclusivity in October 2008, and lower revenue from the Companys relationship with AZLP. Other products experiencing declines include RotaTeq, Zocor and Primaxin. Domestic sales increased 8% compared with 2008, while foreign sales rose 24%, driven primarily by incremental sales resulting from the inclusion of the post Merger results of legacy Schering Plough products. The domestic sales increase was also driven by higher sales of Januvia, Janumet, Isentress and Singulair. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D, Cosopt/Trusopt, Gardasil and RotaTeq. Foreign sales growth reflects the strong performance of Januvia, Janumet and Isentress, partially offset by lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D, and vaccines. Foreign sales represented 47% of total sales in 2009. Worldwide sales totaled $23.9 billion for 2008, a decline of 1% compared with 2007. Foreign exchange favorably affected global sales performance by 3%. The revenue decline over 2007 largely reflects lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D. Also contributing to the decline were lower sales of Zocor, Vasotec/Vaseretic and sales of certain vaccines, including hepatitis and Haemophilus influenzae type b (HIB) vaccines. Partially offsetting these declines were higher sales of Januvia, Janumet, Isentress, Cozaar/Hyzaar, RotaTeq and Singulair. Foreign sales represented 44% of total sales for 2008. 68 Table of Contents Sales(1) of the Companys products were as follows: ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Pharmaceutical: Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology Singulair $ 4,659.7 $ 4,336.9 $ 4,266.3 Fosamax 1,099.8 1,552.7 3,049.0 Propecia 440.3 429.1 405.4 Remicade 430.7 Arcoxia 357.5 377.3 329.1 Nasonex 164.9 Clarinex 100.6 Asmanex 37.0 Cardiovascular Vytorin 440.8 84.2 84.3 Zetia 402.9 6.4 6.5 Integrilin 45.9 Diabetes and Obesity Januvia 1,922.1 1,397.1 667.5 Janumet 658.4 351.1 86.4 Infectious Disease Isentress 751.8 361.1 41.3 Primaxin 688.9 760.4 763.5 Cancidas 616.7 596.4 536.9 Invanz 292.9 265.0 190.2 Crixivan/Stocrin 206.1 275.1 310.2 PegIntron 148.7 Avelox 66.2 Rebetol 36.1 Mature Brands Cozaar/Hyzaar 3,560.7 3,557.7 3,350.1 Zocor 558.4 660.1 876.5 Vasotec/Vaseretic 310.8 356.7 494.6 Proscar 290.9 323.5 411.0 Claritin Rx 71.1 Proventil 26.2 Neurosciences and Ophthalmology Maxalt 574.5 529.2 467.3 Cosopt/Trusopt 503.5 781.2 786.8 Remeron 38.5 Subutex/Suboxone 36.3 Oncology Emend 313.1 259.7 201.7 Temodar 188.1 Caelyx 46.5 Intron A 38.4 Vaccines(2) ProQuad/M M R II/Varivax 1,368.5 1,268.5 1,347.1 Gardasil 1,118.4 1,402.8 1,480.6 RotaTeq 521.9 664.5 524.7 Pneumovax 345.6 249.3 233.2 Zostavax 277.4 312.4 236.0 Womens Health and Endocrine Follistim/Puregon 96.5 NuvaRing 88.3 Other Pharmaceutical(3) 1,294.9 922.9 1,136.6 25,236.5 22,081.3 22,282.8 Other segment revenues (4) 2,114.0 1,694.1 1,848.1 Total segment revenues 27,350.5 23,775.4 24,130.9 Other (5) 77.8 74.9 66.8 $ 27,428.3 $ 23,850.3 $ 24,197.7 (1) Sales of legacy Schering Plough products only reflect results for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Sales of MSP Partnership products Zetia and Vytorin represent sales for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Prior to the Merger, sales of Zetia and Vytorin were primarily recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. Sales of Zetia and Vytorin in 2008 and 2007 reflect Old Mercks sales of these products in Latin America which was not part of the MSP Partnership. (2) These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Companys joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the results of which are reflected in Equity income from affiliates. These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD. (3) Other pharmaceutical primarily includes sales of other human pharmaceutical products, including products within the franchises not listed separately. (4) Reflects other non reportable segments, including animal health and consumer health care, and revenue from the Companys relationship with AZLP primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. Revenue from AZLP was $1.4 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (5) Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, third party manufacturing sales, sales related to divested products or businesses and other supply sales not included in segment results. 69 Table of Contents Pharmaceutical Segment Revenues Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology Worldwide sales of Singulair, a leukotriene receptor antagonist for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, grew 7% reaching $4.7 billion in 2009 primarily driven by favorable pricing and strong performance in Japan and Asia Pacific. Global sales of Singulair rose 2% to $4.3 billion in 2008, reflecting higher sales outside the United States, including volume growth in Europe and Japan and the positive effect of foreign exchange, partially offset by lower sales domestically. Singulair continues to be the number one prescribed product in the U.S. respiratory market. U.S. sales of Singulair were $3.0 billion in 2009. The patent that provides U.S. marketing exclusivity for Singulair expires in August 2012. The Company expects that within the two years following patent expiration, it will lose substantially all U.S. sales of Singulair, with most of those declines coming in the first full year following patent expiration. In addition, the patent for Singulair will expire in a number of major European markets in August 2012 and the Company expects sales of Singulair in those markets will decline significantly thereafter. Worldwide sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D (marketed as Fosavance throughout the EU and as Fosamac in Japan), for the treatment and, in the case of Fosamax, prevention of osteoporosis, decreased 29% in 2009 to $1.1 billion and declined 49% in 2008 to $1.6 billion. Since substantially all formulations of these medicines have lost U.S. market exclusivity, the Company is experiencing significant declines in sales in the United States within the Fosamax product franchise and the Company expects such declines to continue. International sales of Remicade, a treatment for inflammatory diseases, were $430.7 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Remicade is marketed by the Company outside of the United States (except in Japan and certain Asian markets). Products that compete with Remicade have been launched over the past several years. In October 2009, the EC approved Simponi (golimumab), a once monthly subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases. The Company has launched Simponi in Canada, Germany and Denmark; launches in other international markets are ongoing or planned. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of arbitration proceedings involving Remicade/Simponi. Global sales of Nasonex nasal spray, an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, were $164.9 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Global sales of Clarinex (marketed as Aerius in many countries outside the United States), a non drowsy antihistamine, were $100.6 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Other products included in the Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology franchise include among others, Propecia, a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss; Arcoxia, for the treatment of arthritis and pain; and Asmanex, an orally inhaled steroid for asthma. Cardiovascular Sales of Zetia, a cholesterol absorption inhibitor, and Vytorin, a combination product containing the active ingredients of both Zetia and Zocor were $402.9 million and $440.8 million respectively, for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Prior to the Merger, sales of these products were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is now wholly owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these products are now reflected in Sales. For a discussion of the performance of Zetia and Vytorin prior to the closing of the Merger (see Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information below). Global sales of Integrilin Injection, a legacy Schering Plough product for the treatment of patients with acute coronary syndrome, which is sold by the Company in the United States and Canada, were $45.9 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. In June 2009, launches of Tredaptive began in international markets and as of December 31, 2009, Merck had launched Tredaptive in 20 countries including most major European markets. Tredaptive is a lipid modifying therapy for patients with mixed dyslipidemia and primary hypercholesterolemia. Tredaptive, also known by the trademark of Cordaptive in certain countries, is now approved in 45 countries outside the United States. In the United States, it remains investigational. 70 Table of Contents Diabetes and Obesity Global sales of Januvia, Mercks dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP 4) inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, were $1.9 billion in 2009, $1.4 billion in 2008 and $667.5 million in 2007. Januvia was approved by the FDA in October 2006 and by the EC in March 2007. DPP 4 inhibitors represent a class of prescription medications that improve blood sugar control in patients with type 2 diabetes by enhancing a natural body system called the incretin system, which helps to regulate glucose by affecting the beta cells and alpha cells in the pancreas. During 2009, Januvia received regulatory approval in Japan and China. In 2009, the EC approved the restricted first line use of Januvia for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. With this approval, sitagliptin is indicated to improve glycemic control when diet and exercise alone do not provide adequate glycemic control and when metformin is inappropriate due to contraindications or intolerance. Sitagliptin is now the only diabetes treatment in the DPP 4 inhibitor class to have a restricted first line indication in the EU. Worldwide sales of Janumet, Mercks oral antihyperglycemic agent that combines sitagliptin (Mercks DPP 4 inhibitor, Januvia) with metformin in a single tablet to target all three key defects of type 2 diabetes, were $658.4 million in 2009 compared with $351.1 million in 2008 and $86.4 million in 2007. Janumet was initially approved as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve blood sugar control in adult patients with type 2 diabetes who are not adequately controlled on metformin or sitagliptin alone, or in patients already being treated with the combination of sitagliptin and metformin. In February 2008, FDA approval to market Janumet as an initial treatment for type 2 diabetes was received. In July 2008, Janumet was approved for marketing in the EU, Iceland and Norway. In 2009, the EC approved the use of Januvia tablets and Janumet tablets as add on to insulin for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Sitagliptin is now the only diabetes treatment in the DPP 4 inhibitor class to have an indication for use as add on to insulin in the EU. In the United States, a supplemental New Drug Application concerning the use of Januvia and Janumet in combination with insulin has been accepted by the FDA and is currently under review. Infectious Disease Worldwide sales of Isentress, an antiretroviral therapy for the treatment of HIV infection, were $751.8 million in 2009, $361.1 million in 2008 and $41.3 million in 2007. Sales growth in 2009 reflects positive performance in the United States, as well as internationally due in part to strong 2008 launches in certain countries, including France, Spain and Italy. Isentress is now available in all major international markets. In October 2007, the FDA granted Isentress accelerated approval for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV 1 infection in treatment experienced adult patients who have evidence of viral replication and HIV 1 strains resistant to multiple antiretroviral agents. Isentress was the first medicine to be approved in the class of antiretroviral drugs called integrase inhibitors. Isentress works by inhibiting the insertion of HIV DNA into human DNA by the integrase enzyme. Inhibiting integrase from performing this essential function limits the ability of the virus to replicate and infect new cells. In January 2009, the FDA granted traditional approval to Isentress following review of the 48 week data from the BENCHMRK 1 2 clinical trials. In July 2009, the FDA approved an expanded indication for Isentress to include use in the treatment of adult patients starting HIV 1 therapy for the first time (treatment nave), as well as in treatment experienced adult patients. In September 2009, Isentress was granted an expanded license from the EC for use in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of HIV 1 infection in adult patients, including treatment nave adult patients, as well as treatment experienced adult patients. The Commissions decision is applicable to the 27 countries that are members of the EU, as well as Iceland and Norway. Additionally, in October 2009, Merck announced that Isentress is now indicated for use in treatment nave adults in Canada. Sales of Primaxin, an anti bacterial product, declined 9% in 2009 to $688.9 million as compared with 2008. These results reflect competitive pressures and also reflect supply constraints. Patents on Primaxin have expired worldwide and multiple generics have been approved in Europe. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing a decline in sales of this product and the Company expects the decline to continue. Sales of Primaxin were essentially flat in 2008 as compared with 2007. 71 Table of Contents Worldwide sales of PegIntron for treating chronic hepatitis C were $148.7 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Other products contained in the Infectious Diseases franchise include among others, Cancidas, an anti fungal product; Crixivan and Stocrin, antiretroviral therapies for the treatment of HIV infection; Avelox, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic for the treatment of certain respiratory and skin infections; and Invanz for the treatment of certain infections. Mature Brands Mercks mature brands are human health pharmaceutical products that are approaching the expiration of their marketing exclusivity or are no longer protected by patents in developed markets, but continue to be a core part of the Companys offering in other markets around the world. Global sales of Cozaar, and its companion agent Hyzaar (a combination of Cozaar and hydrochlorothiazide), for the treatment of hypertension, were $3.6 billion in 2009 which are comparable to sales in 2008 reflecting the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange, offset by strong performance of both products in the United States and of Hyzaar in Japan (marketed as Preminent). Global sales of Cozaar and Hyzaar grew 6% to $3.6 billion in 2008 driven by strong performance of Hyzaar in Japan, as well as by the positive effect of foreign exchange. Cozaar and Hyzaar are among the leading medicines in the angiotensin receptor blocker class. The patents that provide U.S. market exclusivity for Cozaar and Hyzaar expire in April 2010. In addition, the patent for Cozaar will expire in a number of major European markets in March 2010. Hyzaar lost patent protection in a number of major European markets in February 2010. The Company anticipates a significant decline in future Cozaar/Hyzaar sales since there are multiple sources of generics expected for these medicines at the time of patent expiry. Worldwide sales of Zocor, a statin for modifying cholesterol, declined 15% in 2009 and 25% in 2008. Zocor lost U.S. market exclusivity in June 2006 and has also lost market exclusivity in all major international markets. Other products contained in the Mature Brands franchise include among others, prescription Claritin for the treatment of seasonal outdoor allergies and year round indoor allergies; Vasotec/Vaseretic for hypertension and or heart failure; and Proscar, a urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement. Neurosciences and Ophthalmology Sales of Cosopt and Trusopt, Mercks largest selling ophthalmic products, declined 36% to $503.5 million in 2009 as compared with 2008. The patent that provided U.S. market exclusivity for Cosopt and Trusopt expired in October 2008. Cosopt has also lost market exclusivity in a number of major European markets. Trusopt will lose market exclusivity in a number of major European markets in April 2012 and the Company expects sales in those markets to decline significantly thereafter. Sales of Cosopt and Trusopt declined 1% in 2008 as compared with 2007. Saphris (asenapine), Mercks sublingual tablet for acute treatment of schizophrenia in adults and acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, was approved by the FDA in August 2009 and a full launch is underway. The Company has filed two supplemental New Drug Applications with the FDA for Saphris as an adjunct to therapy in patients with mania and for maintenance therapy in patients with schizophrenia. The application for asenapine is also under review in the EU. The Companys muscle relaxant reversal drug, Bridion, is currently approved in 44 countries, including Japan, and has been launched in 28 countries around the world. During 2009, Saflutan (tafluprost) was launched in a number of countries including the United Kingdom and Spain, and additional launches in other countries are expected over the next year, pending regulatory approvals. Saflutan is a preservative free, synthetic analogue of the prostaglandin F2 for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. Tafluprost is in Phase III development in the United States. In April 2009, Old Merck and Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Santen) announced a worldwide licensing agreement for tafluprost (see Research and Development Update below). 72 Table of Contents Also, during 2009, Old Merck divested its U.S. marketing rights to the Timoptic product franchise to Aton Pharma, Inc. The Timoptic product franchise includes ophthalmic products to treat elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open angle glaucoma. Oncology Sales of Temodar, a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, were $188.1 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Temodar lost patent exclusivity in the EU in 2009. In January 2010, the Company announced that the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware ruled against the Company in a patent infringement suit against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). The decision is being appealed. The effects of the ruling are uncertain while this matter is under appeal. Other products in the Oncology franchise include Emend for the treatment of chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting; and Caelyx for the treatment of ovarian cancer, metastatic breast cancer and Kaposis sarcoma. Marketing rights for Caelyx return to Johnson Johnson as of December 31, 2010. Vaccines The following discussion of vaccines does not include sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through Sanofi Pasteur MSD (SPMSD), the Companys joint venture with Sanofi Pasteur, the results of which are included in Equity income from affiliates (see Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information below). Supply sales to SPMSD, however, are included. Worldwide sales of Gardasil, recorded by Merck, declined 20% to $1.1 billion in 2009 and declined 5% to $1.4 billion in 2008. Gardasil, the worlds top selling HPV vaccine, is indicated for girls and women 9 through 26 years of age for the prevention of cervical, vulvar and vaginal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions, and genital warts caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18. Gardasil is also approved in the United States for use in boys and men ages 9 through 26 years of age for the prevention of genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11. Sales performance in 2009 was driven largely by declines in the United States which continue to be affected by the saturation of the 13 to 18 year old female cohort due to rapid early uptake, and ongoing challenges to vaccinating the 19 to 26 year old female age group. Sales in 2009 include $51 million of revenue as a result of government purchases for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Preventions (CDC) Strategic National Stockpile. In 2008, sales performance reflects lower sales domestically, partially offset by growth outside the United States. Sales in 2007 include initial purchases by many states through the CDC Vaccines for Children program. The Company is a party to certain third party license agreements with respect to Gardasil (including a cross license and settlement agreement with GlaxoSmithKline). As a result of these agreements, the Company pays royalties on worldwide Gardasil sales of 21% to 27% which vary by country and are included in Materials and production costs. In October 2009, the FDA approved Gardasil for use in boys and men, making Gardasil the only HPV vaccine approved for use in males. Later in October 2009, Merck announced that the CDCs Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) supports the permissive use of Gardasil for boys and men ages 9 to 26, which means that Gardasil may be given to males ages 9 to 26 to reduce the likelihood of acquiring genital warts. The ACIP also voted to recommend that funding be provided for the use of Gardasil in males through the Vaccines for Children program. In January 2009, the FDA issued a second complete response letter regarding the supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) for the use of Gardasil in women ages 27 through 45. The FDA completed its review of the response that Old Merck provided in July 2008 to the FDAs first complete response letter issued in June 2008 and recommended that Old Merck submit additional data when the 48 month study has been completed. The initial sBLA included data collected through an average of 24 months from enrollment into the study, which is when the number of pre specified endpoints had been met. Merck provided a response to the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2009. This was a Class 2 Response which generally carries a 6 month review time from the point that the FDA has accepted the file. The complete response letter does not affect current indications for Gardasil in females ages 9 through 26. Global sales of RotaTeq, a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, recorded by Merck declined 21% in 2009 to $521.9 million reflecting moderate impact from competition in the 73 Table of Contents United States, with a greater impact in the public sector. Worldwide sales of RotaTeq grew 27% in 2008 to $664.5 million primarily driven by the continued uptake in the United States and successful launches around the world. Sales in 2008 included purchases of $54 million to support the CDC Strategic National Stockpile. Old Merck has received regulatory approvals in the United States and certain other markets to increase its manufacturing capacity for the Companys varicella zoster virus (VZV) containing vaccines. The Company is manufacturing bulk varicella and is producing doses of Varivax and Zostavax. ProQuad, a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella, one of the VZV containing vaccines, is currently not available for ordering; however, orders have been transitioned, as appropriate, to M M R II and Varivax. Total sales as recorded by Merck for ProQuad were $9.5 million in 2008 and $264.4 million in 2007. Merck anticipates that some ProQuad will be available in the U.S. market in 2010. Mercks sales of Varivax, a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella), were $1.0 billion in 2009, $924.6 million in 2008 and $854.9 million in 2007. Varivax is the only vaccine available in the United States to help protect against chickenpox due to the unavailability of ProQuad. Sales for 2009 reflect $64 million in revenue as a result of government purchases for the CDCs Strategic National Stockpile. In 2007, Varivax benefited from the ACIPs June 2006 second dose recommendation. Mercks sales of M M R II, a vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps and rubella, were $331.4 million in 2009, $334.4 million in 2008 and $227.8 million in 2007. Sales of Varivax and M M R II were affected by the unavailability of ProQuad. Combined sales of ProQuad, M M R II and Varivax increased 8% in 2009 and declined 6% in 2008. Sales of Zostavax, a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster), recorded by Merck were $277.4 million in 2009, $312.4 million in 2008 and $236.0 million in 2007. Sales in all of these years were affected by supply issues. While normal shipping schedules for Zostavax in the United States were resumed in June 2009 and the Company anticipates that Zostavax will be available in 2010 in the United States, customers will likely experience back orders of Zostavax throughout the year. International launches of Zostavax will be delayed until 2011. The vaccine is the first and only medical option for the prevention of shingles. Sales of Pneumovax, a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease, were $345.6 million for 2009 compared with $249.3 million for 2008 and $233.2 million for 2007. The increase in 2009 is due to favorable pricing in the United States and higher demand associated with the flu pandemic. In September 2009, Old Merck announced that it had entered into an exclusive agreement with CSL Biotherapies (CSL), a subsidiary of CSL Limited, to market and distribute Afluria, CSLs seasonal influenza (flu) vaccine, in the United States, for the 2010/2011 2015/2016 flu seasons. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will assume responsibility for all aspects of commercialization of Afluria in the United States. CSL will supply Afluria to Merck and will retain responsibility for marketing the vaccine outside the United States. Afluria is indicated for the active immunization of persons age 6 months and older against influenza disease caused by influenza virus subtypes A and type B present in the vaccine. Efforts to resolve manufacturing issues related to HIB containing vaccines, PedvaxHIB and Comvax have been ongoing since December 2007. In January 2010, PedvaxHIB became fully available in the United States for routine vaccination as well as for booster dose catch up vaccination. The timing of availability outside the United States is dependent upon local regulatory requirements. The market return of Comvax will be dependent upon the supply situation for both the Companys HIB containing vaccine and hepatitis B vaccine. The pediatric/adolescent formulation of Vaqta, a vaccine against hepatitis A, is currently available. Because the Company is continuing to prioritize the pediatric/adolescent formulation, Merck anticipates the adult formulation will not be available in 2010. Outside of the United States, the supply of Vaqta is limited and availability will vary by region. The pediatric/adolescent formulation of Recombivax HB, a vaccine against hepatitis B, became available in December 2009. The Company does not anticipate availability of the adult formulation in the first half of 2010. The Company anticipates the dialysis formulation will become available before the end of 2010. 74 Table of Contents Womens Health Endocrine Global sales of Follistim/Puregon, a fertility treatment, were $96.5 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Follistim/Puregon lost market exclusivity in the EU in August 2009. Worldwide sales of NuvaRing, a contraceptive product, were $88.3 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. In January 2010, Merck received EC approval of Elonva. Elonva is indicated for controlled ovarian stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the development of multiple follicles in women participating in an assisted reproductive technology program. With the EC approval, Merck receives marketing authorization for Elonva with unified labeling valid in all European Union Member States. Elonva is the first in the class of sustained follicle stimulant. Due to its ability to initiate and sustain multiple follicular growth for an entire week, a single subcutaneous injection of the recommended dose of Elonva may replace the first seven injections of any daily recombinant follicle stimulating hormone (rFSH) preparation in a controlled ovarian stimulation treatment cycle. Other In January 2010, the Company, AZLP and Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (which acquired IVAX Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) entered into a settlement agreement to resolve patent litigation with respect to esomeprazole (Nexium) which provides that Teva/IVAX will not bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States until May 27, 2014. During 2008, Old Merck and AZLP entered into a similar agreement with Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (Ranbaxy) which provides that Ranbaxy will not bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States until May 27, 2014. The Company faces other challenges with respect to outstanding patent infringement matters for esomeprazole (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). Animal Health Global sales of Animal Health products, which include livestock, poultry, companion animal and aquaculture products that prevent and treat animal diseases, totaled $494.2 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Animal Health sales are affected by intense competition and the frequent introduction of generic products. Consumer Health Care Global sales of Consumer Health Care products, which include OTC, foot care and sun care products, were $149.2 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Consumer Health Care product sales are affected by competition, frequent competitive product introductions and consumer spending patterns. Consumer Health Care products include Dr. Scholls foot care products, Claritin non drowsy antihistamines; MiraLAX, a treatment for occasional constipation; and Coppertone sun care products. In December 2009, Merck announced that the FDA approved Zegerid OTC for over the counter treatment of frequent heartburn. Under an agreement with Santarus, Inc. a specialty pharmaceutical company that developed and currently markets prescription Zegerid, Schering Plough Healthcare Products, the consumer healthcare division of Merck, is responsible for the development, manufacturing and commercialization of Zegerid OTC products for heartburn related indications in the United States and Canada. 75 Table of Contents Costs Expenses and Other ($ in millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Materials and production $ 9,018.9 62 % $ 5,582.5 9 % $ 6,140.7 Marketing and administrative 8,543.2 16 % 7,377.0 2 % 7,556.7 Research and development 5,845.0 22 % 4,805.3 2 % 4,882.8 Restructuring costs 1,633.9 58 % 1,032.5 * 327.1 Equity income from affiliates (2,235.0 ) 13 % (2,560.6 ) 14 % (2,976.5 ) U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge * 4,850.0 Other (income) expense, net (10,669.5 ) * (2,318.1 ) * (75.2 ) $ 12,136.5 13 % $ 13,918.6 33 % $ 20,705.6 * 100% or greater. Materials and Production In 2009, materials and production costs were $9.0 billion compared with $5.6 billion in 2008. Materials and production costs include expenses related to the sale of legacy Schering Plough products in the post Merger period. Additionally, these costs were unfavorably affected by $1.5 billion of amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to Schering Ploughs inventories and $0.8 billion of expense for the amortization of intangible assets recognized in the Merger. Also included in materials and production costs in 2009 were $115.2 million of costs associated with restructuring activities, substantially all of which represents accelerated depreciation associated with the planned sale or closure of manufacturing facilities. (See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.) In 2008, materials and production costs declined 9% compared with a 1% decline in sales primarily reflecting lower restructuring costs. Included in materials and production costs in 2008 were $123.2 million of restructuring costs comprised of $88.7 million of accelerated depreciation and $34.5 million of other costs, primarily asset write offs. This compares with restructuring costs of $483.1 million in 2007 representing $460.6 million of accelerated depreciation and $22.5 million of asset impairments. Gross margin was 67.1% in 2009 compared with 76.6% in 2008 and 74.6% in 2007. The additional amortization expense as a result of the Merger in 2009 and restructuring charges reflected in all periods as noted above had an unfavorable impact of 8.8 percentage points in 2009, 0.5 percentage points in 2008 and 2.0 percentage points in 2007. Gross margin in 2008 reflects changes in product mix, including the decline in Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D sales as a result of the loss of U.S. market exclusivity in 2008, and manufacturing efficiencies. Gross margin in 2007 reflects a slight unfavorable impact from changes in product mix and the positive impact of manufacturing efficiencies. Marketing and Administrative Marketing and administrative expenses increased 16% in 2009 driven largely by the inclusion of expenses related to Schering Plough activities in the post Merger period. Additionally, $370.7 million of merger related costs were recognized in 2009 consisting of transaction costs directly related to the Merger (including advisory and legal fees) and integration costs. These increases were partially offset by initiatives to reduce the cost base, which were in place prior to the consummation of the Merger. Separation costs associated with sales force reductions have been incurred and are reflected in Restructuring costs as discussed below. In addition, marketing and administrative expenses benefited from foreign exchange. Marketing and administrative expenses in 2009 and 2008 included $75 million and $62 million, respectively, of additional reserves solely for future Vioxx legal defense costs. Expenses in both 2009 and 2008 also reflect $40 million of additional reserves solely for future legal defense costs for Fosamax litigation. (See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on Vioxx and Fosamax litigation related matters). Marketing and administrative expenses declined 2% in 2008 as compared with 2007. Included in marketing and administrative expenses in 2008 and 2007 were $62 million and $280 million, respectively, of additional reserves solely for future Vioxx legal defense costs. Also included in these costs in 2008 was $40 million of additional reserves solely for future legal defense costs for Fosamax litigation. In addition, marketing and 76 Table of Contents administrative expenses for 2007 included a $455 million gain from an insurance arbitration award related to Vioxx product liability litigation coverage. In addition to lower expenses for future legal defense costs, the decline in marketing and administrative expenses in 2008 as compared with 2007 also reflects efforts to reduce the cost base. Research and Development Research and development expenses increased 22% in 2009 as compared with 2008, due in part to the incremental expenditures associated with the inclusion of Schering Ploughs results in the post Merger period. Additionally, expenses in 2009 reflect $231.6 million of costs associated with restructuring activities, including the closure or sale of research facilities in connection with the 2008 Restructuring Program, substantially all of which represent accelerated depreciation. (See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.) In addition, research and development expenses in 2009 as compared with 2008 reflect an increase in development spending in support of the continued advancement of the research pipeline, including investments in late stage clinical trials. Research and development expenses declined 2% in 2008 compared with 2007. Expenses in 2008 reflect $128.4 million of costs related to restructuring activities. Expenses in 2007 reflect $325.1 million of in process research and development expense related to the NovaCardia acquisition. Research and development expenses in 2008 compared with 2007 reflect an increase in development spending in support of the continued advancement of the research pipeline. Share Based Compensation Total pretax share based compensation expense was $415.5 million in 2009, $348.0 million in 2008 and $330.2 million in 2007. At December 31, 2009, there was $521.8 million of total pretax unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested stock option, restricted stock unit and performance share unit awards which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.5 years. For segment reporting, share based compensation costs are unallocated expenses. Restructuring Costs Restructuring costs were $1.6 billion, $1.0 billion and $327.1 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Of the restructuring costs recorded in 2009, $1.4 billion related to the Merger Restructuring Program, $178.2 million related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and $38.7 million related to the legacy Schering Plough Productivity Transformation Program. Of the restructuring costs recorded in 2008, $735.5 million related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and the remainder were associated with the 2005 Restructuring Program. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, separation costs of $1.4 billion, $957.3 million and $251.4 million, respectively, were incurred associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as estimated expenses under existing severance programs for headcount reductions that were probable and could be reasonably estimated. Merck eliminated 3,525 positions in 2009 (most of which related to the 2008 Restructuring Program), 5,800 positions in 2008 (of which approximately 1,750 related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and 4,050 related to the 2005 Restructuring Program) and 2,400 positions in 2007. These position eliminations are comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. Also included in restructuring costs are curtailment, settlement and termination charges on pension and other postretirement benefit plans and shutdown costs. For segment reporting, restructuring costs are unallocated expenses. Additional costs associated with the Companys restructuring activities are included in Materials and production costs and Research and development expenses. Equity Income from Affiliates Equity income from affiliates reflects the performance of the Companys joint ventures and partnerships. The decline in 2009 was primarily driven by lower equity income from the MSP Partnership, which is now wholly owned by the Company as a result of the Merger and therefore its results are reflected in the consolidated results of the Company beginning on the date of the Merger, and decreased equity income from Merial due to the sale of Old Mercks interest in September 2009, partially offset by higher partnership returns from AZLP. In 2008, the decline in equity income from affiliates reflects decreased equity income from the MSP Partnership and lower partnership returns from AZLP, partially offset by higher equity income from Merial and SPMSD. The decrease in equity income from the MSP Partnership in 2008 was primarily the result of lower revenues of Vytorin and Zetia following the announcements of the ENHANCE and SEAS clinical trial results. The lower partnership returns from AZLP in 77 Table of Contents 2008 were primarily attributable to the first quarter 2008 partial redemption of Old Mercks interest in certain AZLP product rights, which resulted in a reduction of the priority return and the variable returns which were based, in part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products. The higher equity income from Merial in 2008 primarily reflects higher sales of biological products. The increase in equity income from SPMSD in 2008 was largely attributable to higher sales of Gardasil in joint venture territories outside of the United States. (See Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information below.) U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement Charge On November 9, 2007, Old Merck entered into an agreement (the Settlement Agreement) with the law firms that comprise the executive committee of the Plaintiffs Steering Committee of the federal multidistrict Vioxx litigation as well as representatives of plaintiffs counsel in state coordinated proceedings to resolve state and federal myocardial infarction (MI) and ischemic stroke (IS) claims filed as of that date against Old Merck in the United States. Under the Settlement Agreement, Old Merck paid an aggregate fixed amount of $4.85 billion into two funds for qualifying claims consisting of $4.0 billion for qualifying MI claims and $850 million for qualifying IS claims that entered into the resolution process (Settlement Program), of which $750 million was paid into such funds in 2008 and the remainder in 2009. As a consequence of the Settlement Agreement, a pretax charge of $4.85 billion was recorded in 2007. (See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). Other (Income) Expense, Net Included in other (income) expense, net in 2009 was a $7.5 billion gain related to Mercks previously held interest in the MSP Partnership. As a result of the Merger, the Company obtained a controlling interest in the MSP Partnership and it is now owned 100% by the Company. Previously, the Company had a noncontrolling interest. A business combination in which an acquirer holds a noncontrolling equity investment in the acquiree immediately before obtaining control of that acquiree is referred to as a step acquisition. The acquirer is required to remeasure its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition date fair value and recognize the resulting gain or loss in earnings. Additionally during 2009, a $3.2 billion gain was recognized on the sale of Old Mercks interest in Merial (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements). Also included in other (income) expense, net in 2009 was $231 million of investment portfolio recognized net gains, and an $80 million charge related to the settlement of the Vioxx third party payor litigation in the United States (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). Included in other (income) expense, net in 2008 was an aggregate gain on distribution from AZLP of $2.2 billion (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements), a gain of $249 million related to the sale of the remaining worldwide rights to Aggrastat, a $300 million expense for a contribution to the Merck Company Foundation, $117 million of investment portfolio recognized net losses and a $58 million charge related to the resolution of an investigation into whether Old Merck violated state consumer protection laws with respect to the sales and marketing of Vioxx. Merck experienced a decline in interest income in 2009 as compared with 2008 primarily as a result of lower interest rates and a change in the investment portfolio mix toward cash and shorter dated securities in anticipation of the Merger. Merck recognized higher interest expense in 2009 largely due to $174 million of commitment fees and incremental interest expense related to the financing of the Merger. The change in other (income) expense, net during 2008 as compared with 2007 was primarily due to an aggregate gain in 2008 from AZLP of $2.2 billion, the impact of a $671 million charge in 2007 related to the resolution of certain civil governmental investigations, and a 2008 gain of $249 million related to the sale of the remaining worldwide rights to Aggrastat, partially offset by a $300 million expense in 2008 for a contribution to the Merck Company Foundation, an increase in exchange losses of $202 million, higher recognized losses of $153 million, net, in the investment portfolio and a $58 million charge related to the resolution of an investigation into whether Old Merck violated consumer protection laws with respect to the sales and marketing of Vioxx. The fluctuation in exchange losses (gains) in 2008 from 2007 was primarily due to the higher cost of foreign currency contracts due to lower U.S. interest rates and unfavorable impacts of period to period changes in foreign currency exchange rates on net long or net short foreign currency positions, considering both net monetary assets and related foreign currency contracts. 78 Table of Contents Segment Profits ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Pharmaceutical segment profits $ 15,714.6 $ 14,110.3 $ 14,558.7 Other non reportable segment profits 1,735.1 1,691.0 2,027.6 Other (2,157.9 ) (5,869.6 ) (13,094.2 ) Income before income taxes $ 15,291.8 $ 9,931.7 $ 3,492.1 Segment profits are comprised of segment revenues less certain elements of materials and production costs and operating expenses, including components of equity income (loss) from affiliates and depreciation and amortization expenses. For internal management reporting presented to the chief operating decision maker, Merck does not allocate production costs, other than standard costs, research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses, as well as the cost of financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by these divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment profits. Also excluded from the determination of segment profits are the gain related to the MSP Partnership, the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, the gain on the disposition of Merial, the gain on distribution from AZLP, restructuring costs the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge, taxes paid at the joint venture level and a portion of equity income. Additionally, segment profits do not reflect other expenses from corporate and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income (expense). These unallocated items are reflected in Other in the above table. Also included in other are miscellaneous corporate profits, operating profits related to divested products or businesses, other supply sales and adjustments to eliminate the effect of double counting certain items of income and expense. Pharmaceutical segment profits rose 11% in 2009 largely driven by the inclusion of legacy Schering Plough results in the post Merger period. Pharmaceutical segment profits decreased 3% in 2008 largely driven by lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D, Zocor and decreased equity income from the MSP Partnership. Taxes on Income The effective income tax rate was 14.8% in 2009, 20.1% in 2008 and 2.7% in 2007. The 2009 effective tax rate reflects the favorable impacts of increased income in lower tax jurisdictions, which includes the favorable impact of the MSP Partnership gain, and higher expenses in certain jurisdictions including the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments and restructuring costs. The effective income tax rate in 2009 also benefited from 2009 tax settlements, including the previously announced settlement with the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA.) These favorable impacts were partially offset by the unfavorable effect of the gain on the sale of Old Mercks interest in Merial being taxable in the United States at a combined federal and state tax rate of approximately 38.0%. The net favorable impact of the above items on the 2009 effective tax rate was approximately 7 percentage points. The 2008 effective tax rate reflects a net favorable impact as compared with the statutory rate of approximately 3 percentage points, which includes favorable impacts relating to tax settlements that resulted in a reduction of the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $200 million, the realization of foreign tax credits and the favorable tax impact of foreign exchange rate changes during the fourth quarter, particularly the strengthening of the Japanese yen against the US dollar, partially offset by an unfavorable impact resulting from the AZLP gain being fully taxable in the United States at a combined federal and state tax rate of approximately 36.3%. In the first quarter of 2008, Old Merck decided to distribute certain prior years foreign earnings to the United States which will result in a utilization of foreign tax credits. These foreign tax credits arose as a result of tax payments made outside of the United States in prior years that became realizable in the first quarter based on a change in Old Mercks decision to distribute these foreign earnings. The 2007 effective tax rate reflects the reduction of domestic pretax income primarily resulting from the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge and the related change in mix of domestic and foreign pretax income. Net Income and Earnings per Common Share Net income available to common shareholders was $12.9 billion in 2009 compared with $7.8 billion in 2008 and $3.3 billion in 2007. Earnings per common share assuming dilution available to common shareholders (EPS) were $5.65 in 2009 compared with $3.63 in 2008 and $1.49 in 2007. The increases in net income and earnings per share in 2009 were largely driven by the gain associated with the MSP Partnership recognized in conjunction with the Merger, as well as the gain recorded on the sale of Old Mercks interest in Merial, partially offset by incremental charges associated with the Merger, including the amortization of intangible assets and 79 Table of Contents inventory step up and the recognition of merger related costs. EPS in 2009 was also affected by the dilutive impact of shares issued in the Merger. The increases in net income and earnings per share in 2008 as compared with 2007 are primarily attributable to the gain on distribution from AZLP in 2008 and the impacts in 2007 of the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement and civil governmental investigations charges. In addition, the increases reflect the positive impact of certain tax items, lower in process research and development costs and lower expenses for legal defense costs, partially offset by higher restructuring costs and lower equity earnings in 2008, as well as the recognition in 2007 of an insurance arbitration gain. Non GAAP Income and Non GAAP EPS Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS are alternative views of the Companys performance used by management that Merck is providing because management believes this information enhances investors understanding of the Companys results. Non GAAP income and non GAAP earnings per share exclude certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact that they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. The excluded items are certain purchase accounting items related to the Merger, restructuring activities, merger related costs, and certain other items. These excluded items are significant components in understanding and assessing financial performance. Therefore, the information on non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, net income and earnings per share prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Additionally, since non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS are not measures determined in accordance with GAAP, they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS are important internal measures for the Company. Senior management receives a monthly analysis of operating results that includes non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS and the performance of the Company is measured on this basis along with other performance metrics. Senior managements annual compensation is derived in part using non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS. 80 Table of Contents A reconciliation between GAAP financial measures and non GAAP financial measures is as follows: ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Pretax income as reported under GAAP $ 15,292 $ 9,932 $ 3,492 Increase (decrease) for excluded items: Purchase accounting 2,286 Restructuring activities 1,981 1,284 810 Merger related costs 544 Other items: Gain related to the MSP Partnership (7,530 ) Gain on Merial (3,163 ) Gain on distribution from AZLP (2,223 ) U.S. Vioxx settlement agreement charge 4,850 Civil governmental investigations charge 671 Insurance arbitration gain (455 ) 9,410 8,993 9,368 Taxes on income as reported under GAAP 2,268 1,999 95 Tax (benefit) expense on excluded items (390 ) (472 ) 2,134 Non GAAP taxes on income 1,878 1,527 2,229 Non GAAP net income $ 7,532 $ 7,466 $ 7,139 2009 2008 2007 EPS assuming dilution as reported under GAAP $ 5.65 $ 3.63 $ 1.49 EPS impact of excluded items (2.40 ) (0.21 ) 1.71 Non GAAP EPS assuming dilution $ 3.25 $ 3.42 $ 3.20 Purchase Accounting Adjustments Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude certain amounts recorded in connection with the Merger (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). These amounts include the amortization of intangible assets and inventory step up. Restructuring Activities Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude restructuring activities, including restructuring activities related to the Merger (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). These amounts include employee separation costs and accelerated depreciation associated with facilities to be sold or closed. The Company has undertaken restructurings of different types during the covered periods and therefore these charges should not to be considered non recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS because it believes it is helpful for understanding the performance of the continuing business. Merger Related Costs Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude transaction costs associated directly with the Merger, as well as integration costs. These costs are excluded because management believes that these costs are unique to the Merger transaction and are not representative of ongoing normal business activities. Integration costs associated with the Merger will occur over several years, however, the impacts within each year will vary as the integration progresses. Certain Other Items Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude certain other items. These items represent substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the 81 Table of Contents qualitative aspect of their unusual nature and generally represent items that, either as a result of their nature or magnitude, management would not anticipate that they would occur as part of the Companys normal business on a regular basis. Certain other items include, among other items, the gain on the fair value adjustment of Mercks existing interest in the MSP Partnership as a result of the Merger, the gain on the divestiture of the interest in Merial, the gain on a distribution from AZLP and certain legal settlements. Research and Development A chart reflecting the Companys current research pipeline as of February 12, 2010 is set forth in Item 1. Business Research and Development above. Research and Development Update In connection with the Merger, the Company is assessing its pipeline to identify the most promising, high potential compounds for development. The Company has completed the prioritization of its clinical development programs. The Company is continuing to work on the prioritization of its value adding programs related to currently marketed products and to its preclinical/discovery programs. The Company anticipates that the full prioritization process will be completed by the first half of 2010. In connection with this process, the Company may recognize non cash impairment charges for the cancellation of certain legacy Schering Plough pipeline programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the Merger. These non cash impairment charges, which are anticipated to be excluded from the Companys non GAAP earnings, could be material to the Companys future GAAP earnings. The Company currently has a number of candidates under regulatory review in the United States and internationally. Additionally, the Company has 19 drug candidates in Phase III development. MK 6621, vernakalant (IV), is an investigational candidate for the treatment of atrial fibrillation currently undergoing regulatory review in the EU. In April 2009, Old Merck and Cardiome Pharma Corp. (Cardiome) announced a collaboration and license agreement for the development and commercialization of vernakalant which provides Merck exclusive rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico to the intravenous formulation of vernakalant (see below). Vernakalent (oral) is currently in Phase II development. Merck has exclusive global rights to the oral formulation of vernakalent for the maintenance of normal heart rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation. SCH 418131, MFF, is a combination of two previously approved drugs for the treatment of asthma: mometasone (Asmanex) and formoterol (Foradil). The Company is aiming to create a new option for patients by bringing these two key treatments together. In July 2009, Schering Plough announced that it had filed a New Drug Application (NDA) with the FDA for MFF. MFF is also currently under regulatory review in the EU. SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, is an oral contraceptive that combines a selective progestin with estradiol, the estrogen that women produce naturally. The drug is currently under regulatory review in the EU. It is in Phase III development for the U.S. market. SCH 900274, Saphris, asenapine, a central nervous system compound for bipolar I disorder and schizophrenia, is currently undergoing regulatory review in the EU. The FDA approved Saphris in August 2009. SCH 900616, Bridion, sugammadex, is a medication designed to rapidly reverse the effects of certain muscle relaxants used as part of general anesthesia to ensure patients remain immobile during surgical procedures. It differs from other reversal agents that can only be administered once the muscle relaxant begins to wear off. Bridion has received regulatory approval in the EU, Australia, New Zealand and Japan, and is under regulatory review in other markets, including the United States. Prior to the Merger, Schering Plough received a complete response letter from the FDA for Bridion. Following further communication from the FDA, the Company is assessing the agencys feedback in order to determine a new timetable for response. SCH 503034, boceprevir, is a hepatitis C protease inhibitor currently under development. Boceprevir is fully enrolled in its Phase III program, which the Company expects to conclude in mid 2010. The Company expects to submit an NDA to the FDA for boceprevir by the end of 2010 for both treatment experienced and treatment nave patients with hepatitis C. 82 Table of Contents MK 8669, ridaforolimus, is a novel mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of cancer. The drug candidate is being jointly developed and commercialized with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc., under an agreement entered into in 2007. A Phase III study (SUCCEED) in patients with metastatic soft tissue or bone sarcomas is underway. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA for ridaforolimus with the FDA in 2010, subject to a review of the results from the planned interim analysis of SUCCEED. SCH 697243, an allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet (AIT) for grass pollen allergy, is being developed by the Company. In November 2009, SCH 697243 met the primary endpoint in a Phase III study of adult subjects in the United States with a history of grass pollen induced rhinoconjunctivitis with or without asthma. The investigational grass AIT treatment is designed to work by inducing a protective immune response against grass pollen allergy and providing sustained prevention of allergy symptoms, treating both the symptoms and the underlying cause of the disease. SCH 039641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in Phase III development for the U.S. market. SCH 530348, vorapaxar, is a thrombin receptor antagonist or antiplatelet protease activated receptor 1 inhibitor being studied for the prevention and treatment of thrombosis. In November 2009, Merck announced completion of patient enrollment of more than 26,000 patients in the TRA 2P TIMI 50 clinical trial, a Phase III, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, multinational study. The trial will assess the ability of SCH 530348 to prevent major cardiovascular events when added to current antiplatelet regimens (aspirin or aspirin plus an ADP inhibitor) in patients who have previously experienced a heart attack or stroke or who have peripheral arterial disease. SCH 530348 is also being studied in the treatment of patients with acute coronary syndrome in the ongoing Phase III Thrombin Receptor Antagonist for Clinical Event Reduction in Acute Coronary Syndrome trial, led by the Duke Clinical Research Institute. The Company anticipates filing an NDA for vorapaxar with the FDA in 2011. MK 2452, tafluprost, is a preservative free, synthetic analogue of the prostaglandin F2 for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. In April 2009, Old Merck and Santen announced a worldwide licensing agreement for tafluprost (see below). As previously disclosed, Old Merck submitted for filing an NDA with the FDA for MK 0653C, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin, which is an investigational medication for the treatment of dyslipidemia, and the FDA refused to file the application. The FDA has identified additional manufacturing and stability data that are needed and the Company is assessing the FDAs response and anticipates filing in 2011. MK 0431C, a candidate currently in Phase III clinical development, combines Januvia with pioglitazone, another type 2 diabetes therapy. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA for MK 0431C with the FDA in 2011. MK 0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once weekly investigational treatment for osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is a disease which reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. In September 2009, data from a Phase IIB clinical study of odanacatib were presented at the 31st Annual Meeting of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research which showed that when stopping treatment after two years the increases in lower back (lumbar spine) bone mineral density (BMD) were reversed over the next year, while BMD at the hip (femoral neck) remained above levels observed at the start of the study. Additionally, three years of treatment with odanacatib 50 mg demonstrated increases in BMD at key fracture sites and minimal impact on the formation of new bone as measured by biochemical markers of bone turnover. Odanacatib is currently in Phase III clinical trials and is being evaluated in a large scale, global outcomes study to determine its effects on vertebral, hip and non vertebral fractures. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in 2012. V503 is a nine valent HPV vaccine in development to expand protection against cancer causing HPV types. The Phase III clinical program is underway and Merck anticipates filing a Biologics License Application (BLA) with the FDA in 2012. 83 Table of Contents MK 0524A is a drug candidate that combines extended release (ER) niacin and a novel flushing inhibitor, laropiprant. MK 0524A has demonstrated the ability to lower LDL cholesterol (LDL C or bad cholesterol), raise HDL cholesterol (HDL C or good cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with significantly less flushing than traditional extended release niacin alone. High LDL C, low HDL C and elevated triglycerides are risk factors associated with heart attacks and strokes. In April 2008, Old Merck received a non approvable action letter from the FDA in response to its NDA for MK 0524A. At a meeting to discuss the letter, the FDA stated that additional efficacy and safety data were required and suggested that Old Merck wait for the results of the Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence of Vascular Events (HPS2 THRIVE) cardiovascular outcomes study, which is expected to be completed in 2012. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA for MK 0524A in 2012. MK 0524A has been approved in more than 45 countries outside the United States for the treatment of dyslipidemia, particularly in patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia (characterized by elevated levels of LDL C and triglycerides and low HDL C) and in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial and non familial) and is marketed as Tredaptive (or as Cordaptive in certain countries). Tredaptive should be used in patients in combination with statins, when the cholesterol lowering effects of statin monotherapy is inadequate. Tredaptive can be used as monotherapy only in patients in whom statins are considered inappropriate or not tolerated. MK 0524B is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to raising HDL C and lowering triglycerides from ER niacin combined with laropiprant with the proven benefits of simvastatin in one combination product. Merck will not seek approval for MK 0524B in the United States until it files its complete response relating to MK 0524A. MK 0859, anacetrapib, is an inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein that has shown promise in lipid management by raising HDL C and reducing LDL C without raising blood pressure. In November 2009, Merck announced that in a Phase IIb study in 589 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed hyperlipidemia treated with anacetrapib as monotherapy or co administered with atorvastatin, there were persistent lipid effects in the higher dose arms in both the monotherapy and co administration treatment groups eight weeks after stopping active therapy with anacetrapib. The effect of CETP inhibition on cardiovascular risk has yet to be established. A Phase III trial, titled DEFINE, is ongoing to further evaluate the safety and efficacy of anacetrapib in patients with coronary heart disease. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2015. As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced it was delaying the filing of the U.S. application for telcagepant (MK 0974), the Companys investigational calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist for the intermittent treatment of acute migraine. The decision was based on findings from a Phase IIa exploratory study in which a small number of patients taking telcagepant twice daily for three months for the prevention of migraine were found to have marked elevations in liver transaminases. The daily dosing regimen in the prevention study was different than the dosing regimen used in Phase III studies in which telcagepant was intermittently administered in one or two doses to treat individual migraine attacks as they occurred. Other studies with telcagepant for the acute, intermittent treatment of migraine continue. Following meetings with regulatory agencies at the end of 2009, Merck is planning to conduct an additional safety study as part of the overall Phase III program for telcagepant. The results of this study will inform planned filings for approval. SCH 900395, acadesine, is a potential first in class adenosine regulating agent for ischemia reperfusion injury in patients undergoing heart bypass surgery. Patient enrollment in the RED CABG Phase III clinical trial was initiated in 2009. SCH 417690, vicriviroc, for the treatment of HIV infection (treatment experienced) was evaluated in two Phase III studies in this patient population, and it was announced in January 2010 that the primary efficacy endpoint was not met. Merck will not submit an NDA to the FDA for vicriviroc in treatment experienced HIV infected patients at this time but will continue to evaluate vicriviroc as first line therapy for treatment naive patients. As previously disclosed, in 2007, Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Cubist) entered into a license agreement with Old Merck for the development and commercialization of Cubicin (daptomycin for injection, MK3009) in Japan. Merck will develop and commercialize Cubicin through its wholly owned subsidiary, Banyu Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Cubist commercializes Cubicin in the United States. MK 3009 is currently in Phase III development. 84 Table of Contents MK 4305 is an orexin receptor antagonist, a potential new approach to the treatment of chronic insomnia, currently in Phase III development. SCH 900962, Elonva, corifollitropin alpha injection, which has been approved in the EC for controlled ovarian stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the development of multiple follicles in women participating in an assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in Phase III development in the United States. Merck has terminated the internal clinical development program for esmirtazapine (SCH 900265) for hot flashes and insomnia for strategic reasons. As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced that preliminary results for the pivotal Phase III study of rolofylline (MK 7418), its investigational medicine for the treatment of acute heart failure, showed that rolofylline did not meet the primary or secondary efficacy endpoints. Old Merck terminated the clinical development program for rolofylline. In Process Research and Development In connection with the Merger, the Company recorded the fair value of human and animal health research projects underway at Schering Plough. Approximately $5.0 billion of the consideration transferred in the Merger was allocated to Pharmaceutical segment IPRD projects and $1.3 billion was allocated to Animal Health operating segment IPRD projects. Some of the more significant projects include Bridion, vorapaxar and boceprevir, all of which are in Phase III clinical development, as well as an ezetimibe/atorvastatin combination product. These projects are discussed in further detail above. Also, as noted above, the Company expects to file NDAs with the FDA in 2010 for boceprevir and in 2011 for vorapaxar and the ezetimibe/atorvastatin combination product. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to IPRD were determined by using an income approach, through which fair value is estimated based on each assets probability adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the different stages of development of each product and the associated probability of successful completion. The net cash flows are then discounted to present value using discount rates which range from 12% to 15%. Actual cash flows are likely to be different than those assumed. Additional research and development will be required before any of the programs reach technological feasibility. The costs to complete the research projects will depend on whether the projects are brought to their final stages of development and are ultimately submitted to the FDA or other regulatory agencies for approval. As of December 31, 2009, the estimated costs to complete projects in Phase III development for human health and the analogous stage of development for animal health were approximately $1.6 billion. All of the IPRD projects are subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties in drug development and it is possible that the Company will not be able to successfully develop and complete the IPRD programs and profitably commercialize the underlying product candidates. The time periods to receive approvals from the FDA and other regulatory agencies are subject to uncertainty. Significant delays in the approval process, or the Companys failure to obtain approval at all, will delay or prevent the Company from realizing revenues from these products. Additionally, if certain of the IPRD programs fail or are abandoned during development as a result of the Companys portfolio prioritization process or otherwise, then the Company will not realize the future cash flows it has estimated and recorded as IPRD on the Merger date, and the Company may also not recover the research and development expenditures made since the Merger to further develop that program. If such circumstances were to occur, the Companys future operating results could be adversely affected. Acquisitions, Research Collaborations and License Agreements Merck continues to remain focused on augmenting its internal efforts by capitalizing on growth opportunities that will drive both near and long term growth. During 2009, transactions across a broad range of therapeutic categories, as well as early stage technology transactions were completed. Merck is actively 85 Table of Contents monitoring the landscape for growth opportunities that meet the Companys strategic criteria. Highlights from these activities include: In December 2009, Merck and Avecia Investments Limited announced a definitive agreement under which Merck would acquire the biologics business of the Avecia group for a total purchase price of $180 million. Avecia Biologics is a contract manufacturing organization with specific expertise in microbial derived biologics. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck would acquire Avecia Biologics Limited (Avecia) and all of its assets, including all Avecias process development and scale up, manufacturing, quality and business support operations located in Billingham, United Kingdom. This transaction closed on February 1, 2010, and accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business will be included in Mercks results of operations beginning as of the acquisition date. In July 2009, Old Merck and Portola Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Portola) signed an exclusive global collaboration and license agreement for the development and commercialization of betrixaban (MK 4448), an investigational oral Factor Xa inhibitor anticoagulant currently in Phase II clinical development for the prevention of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation. In return for an exclusive worldwide license to betrixaban, Old Merck paid Portola an initial fee of $50 million at closing, which was recorded as research and development expense. Portola is eligible to receive additional cash payments totaling up to $420 million upon achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercialization milestones, as well as double digit royalties on worldwide sales of betrixaban, if approved. The Company will assume all development and commercialization costs, including the costs of Phase III clinical trials. Portola retained an option (a) to co fund Phase III clinical trials in return for additional royalties and (b) to co promote betrixaban with Merck in the United States. The term of the agreement commenced in August 2009 and, unless terminated earlier, will continue until there are no remaining royalty payment obligations in a country, at which time the agreement will expire in its entirety in such country. The agreement may be terminated by either party in the event of a material uncured breach or bankruptcy of a party. The agreement may be terminated by Merck in the event that the parties or Merck decide to cease development of betrixaban for safety or efficacy. In addition, Merck may terminate the agreement at any time upon 180 days prior written notice. Portola may terminate the agreement in the event that Merck challenges any Portola patent covering betrixaban. Upon termination of the agreement, depending upon the circumstances, the parties have varying rights and obligations with respect to the continued development and commercialization of betrixaban and, in the case of termination for cause by Merck, certain royalty obligations. In April 2009, Old Merck, Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) and Massachusetts Biologic Laboratories (MBL) of the University of Massachusetts Medical School announced an exclusive worldwide license agreement for CDA 1 and CDB 1 (MK 3415A) (also known as MDX 066/MDX 1388 and MBL CDA1/MBL CDB1), an investigational fully human monoclonal antibody combination developed to target and neutralize Clostridium difficile toxins A and B, for the treatment of C. difficile infection. CDA 1 and CDB 1 were co developed by Medarex and MBL. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck gained worldwide rights to develop and commercialize CDA 1 and CDB 1. Medarex and MBL received an aggregate upfront payment of $60 million upon closing, which was recorded as research and development expense, and are potentially eligible to receive additional cash payments up to $165 million in the aggregate upon achievement of certain milestones associated with the development and approval of a drug candidate covered by this agreement. Upon commercialization, Medarex and MBL will also be eligible to receive double digit royalties on product sales and milestones if certain sales targets are met. The term of the agreement commenced on the closing date and, unless terminated earlier, will continue until there are no remaining royalty payment obligations in a country, at which time the agreement will expire in its entirety in such country. Either party may terminate this agreement for uncured material breach by the other party, or bankruptcy or insolvency of the other party. Merck may terminate this agreement at any time upon providing 180 days prior written notice to Medarex and MBL. Also, in April 2009, Old Merck and Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Santen) announced a worldwide licensing agreement for tafluprost (MK 2452), a prostaglandin analogue under investigation in the United States. Tafluprost, preserved and preservative free formulations, has received marketing approval for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension in several European and Nordic countries as well as Japan and has been filed for approval in additional European and Asia Pacific markets. Under the terms of the agreement, Old Merck paid a fee, which was capitalized and will be amortized to Materials and 86 Table of Contents production costs over the life of the underlying patent, and will pay milestones and royalty payments based on future sales of tafluprost (both preserved and preservative free formulations) in exchange for exclusive commercial rights to tafluprost in Western Europe (excluding Germany), North America, South America and Africa. Santen will retain commercial rights to tafluprost in most countries in Eastern Europe, Northern Europe and Asia Pacific, including Japan. Merck will provide promotion support to Santen in Germany and Poland. If tafluprost is approved in the United States, Santen has an option to co promote it there. The agreement between Old Merck and Santen expires on a country by country basis on the last to occur of (a) the expiry of the last to expire valid patent claim; or (b) the expiration of the last to expire royalty. Merck may terminate the agreement at any time upon 90 days prior written notice and also at any time upon 60 days prior written notice if Merck determines that the product presents issues of safety or tolerability. In addition, Merck may terminate the agreement in the event that any of the enumerated agreements between Santen and the co owner/licensor of certain intellectual property terminate or expire and this materially adversely affects Merck. If either Merck or Santen materially breaches the agreement and fails to cure after receiving notice, then the non breaching party may terminate the agreement. The agreement provides for termination by the non insolvent party due to bankruptcy by the other party. Finally, the agreement will terminate if, during the term, Merck develops or commercializes a competitive product (as that term is defined in the agreement). In addition, in April 2009, Old Merck and Cardiome Pharma Corp. (Cardiome) announced a collaboration and license agreement for the development and commercialization of vernakalant (MK 6621), an investigational candidate for the treatment of atrial fibrillation. The agreement provides Merck with exclusive global rights to the oral formulation of vernakalant (vernakalant (oral)) for the maintenance of normal heart rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation, and provides a Merck affiliate, Merck Sharp Dohme (Switzerland) GmbH, with exclusive rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico to the intravenous (IV) formulation of vernakalant (vernakalant (IV)) for rapid conversion of acute atrial fibrillation to normal heart rhythm. Under the terms of the agreement, Old Merck paid Cardiome an initial fee of $60 million upon closing, which was recorded as research and development expense. In addition, Cardiome is eligible to receive up to $200 million in payments based on achievement of certain milestones associated with the development and approval of vernakalant products (including $15 million for submission for regulatory approval in Europe of vernakalant (IV), which Old Merck paid in 2009 as a result of that submission, and $20 million for initiation of a planned Phase III program for vernakalant (oral)) and up to $100 million for milestones associated with approvals in other subsequent indications of both the intravenous and oral formulations. Also, Cardiome will receive tiered royalty payments on sales of any approved products and has the potential to receive up to $340 million in milestone payments based on achievement of significant sales thresholds. Cardiome has retained an option to co promote vernakalant (oral) with Merck through a hospital based sales force in the United States. Merck will be responsible for all future costs associated with the development, manufacturing and commercialization of these candidates. Merck has granted Cardiome a secured, interest bearing credit facility of up to $100 million that Cardiome may access in tranches over several years commencing in 2010. Cardiomes co development partner in North America, Astellas Pharma U.S., Inc., submitted an NDA with the FDA for Kynapid (vernakalant hydrochloride) Injection in December 2006 that included results from two pivotal Phase III clinical trials. In December 2007, the Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory Committee recommended that the FDA approve vernakalant (IV) for rapid conversion of atrial fibrillation. In August 2008, the FDA issued an Approvable action letter requesting additional information. A Phase IIb double blind, placebo controlled, randomized, dose ranging clinical trial in patients at risk of recurrent atrial fibrillation showed that, at the 500 mg dose, vernakalant (oral) significantly reduced the rate of atrial fibrillation relapse as compared to placebo. This agreement continues in effect until the expiration of Cardiomes co promotion rights and all royalty and milestone payment obligations. This agreement may be terminated in the event of insolvency or a material uncured breach by either party. Additionally, the collaboration may be terminated by Merck in the event that Merck determines (in good faith) that it is not advisable to continue the development or commercialization of a vernakalant product as a result of a serious safety issue. In addition, Merck may terminate the agreement at any time upon 12 months prior written notice. Cardiome may terminate the agreement in the event that Merck challenges any Cardiome patent covering vernakalant. Upon termination of the agreement, depending upon the circumstances, the parties have varying rights and obligations with respect to the continued development and commercialization of vernakalant and in some cases continuing royalty obligations. 87 Table of Contents In March 2009, Old Merck acquired Insmed Inc.s (Insmed) portfolio of follow on biologic therapeutic candidates and its commercial manufacturing facilities located in Boulder, Colorado. Under the terms of the agreement, Old Merck paid Insmed an aggregate of $130 million in cash to acquire all rights to the Boulder facilities and Insmeds pipeline of follow on biologic candidates. Insmeds follow on biologics portfolio includes two clinical candidates: MK 4214, an investigational recombinant granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G CSF) that will be evaluated for its ability to prevent infections in patients with cancer receiving chemotherapy, and MK 6302, a pegylated recombinant G CSF designed to allow for less frequent dosing. The transaction was accounted for as a business combination; accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. The determination of fair value requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions. In connection with the acquisition, substantially all of the purchase price was allocated to Insmeds follow on biologics portfolio (MK 4214 and MK 6302) and an indefinite lived intangible asset was recorded. The fair value was determined based upon the present value of expected future cash flows of new product candidates resulting from Insmeds follow on biologics portfolio adjusted for the probability of their estimated technical and marketing success utilizing an income approach reflecting appropriate risk adjusted discount rates. The ongoing activity related to MK 4214 and MK 6302 is not expected to be material to the Companys research and development expense. The remaining net assets acquired were not material and there were no other milestone or royalty obligations associated with the acquisition. This transaction closed on March 31, 2009, and accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in Mercks results of operations beginning April 1, 2009. The Company maintains a number of long term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. The Companys research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the Companys research and development resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific opportunity and commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major impact on human health, on developing best in class approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its new medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. Another important component of the Companys science based diversification is based on expanding the Companys portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and vaccines, but also biologics, peptides and RNAi. Further, Merck moved to diversify its portfolio by creating a new division, Merck BioVentures, which has the potential to harness the market opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by delivering high quality follow on biologic products to enhance access for patients worldwide. The Company will continue to pursue appropriate external licensing opportunities. The integration plans for research and development are focused on integrating the research operations of the legacy companies, including providing an effective transition for employees, realizing projected merger synergies in the form of cost savings and revenue growth opportunities, and maintaining momentum in the Companys late state pipeline. During 2009, Merck continued implementing a new model for its basic research global operating strategy at legacy Merck Research Laboratories sites. The new model will align franchise and function as well as align resources with disease area priorities and balance capacity across discovery phases and allow the Company to act upon those programs with the highest probability of success. Additionally, across all disease area priorities, the Companys strategy is designed to expand access to worldwide external science and incorporate external research as a key component of the Companys early discovery pipeline in order to translate basic research productivity into late stage clinical success. The Companys clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including anemia, atherosclerosis, cancer, diabetes, heart disease, hypertension, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, migraine, neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis, psychiatric diseases, respiratory disease and womens health. The Company supplements its internal research with an aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late stage compounds, as well as new technologies. 88 Table of Contents Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information To expand its research base and realize synergies from combining capabilities, opportunities and assets, in previous years Old Merck formed a number of joint ventures. (See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.) Merck/Schering Plough Partnership In 2000, Old Merck and Schering Plough (collectively, the Partners) entered into an agreement to create an equally owned partnership to develop and market in the United States new prescription medicines for cholesterol management. This agreement generally provided for equal sharing of development costs and for co promotion of approved products by each company. In 2001, the cholesterol management partnership was expanded to include all the countries of the world, excluding Japan. In 2002, ezetimibe, the first in a new class of cholesterol lowering agents, was launched in the United States as Zetia (marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States). In 2004, a combination product containing the active ingredients of both Zetia and Zocor was approved in the United States as Vytorin (marketed as Inegy outside the United States). Vytorin is the only combination tablet cholesterol treatment to provide LDL cholesterol lowering through the dual inhibition of cholesterol production and absorption. The cholesterol agreements provided for the sharing of operating income generated by the MSP Partnership based upon percentages that vary by product, sales level and country. In the U.S. market, the Partners shared profits on Zetia and Vytorin sales equally, with the exception of the first $300 million of annual Zetia sales, on which Schering Plough received a greater share of profits. Operating income included expenses that the Partners contractually agreed to share, such as a portion of manufacturing costs, specifically identified promotion costs (including direct to consumer advertising and direct and identifiable out of pocket promotion) and other agreed upon costs for specific services such as on going clinical research, market support, market research, market expansion, as well as a specialty sales force and physician education programs. Expenses incurred in support of the MSP Partnership but not shared between the Partners, such as marketing and administrative expenses (including certain sales force costs), as well as certain manufacturing costs, were not included in Equity income from affiliates. However, these costs were reflected in the overall results of each legacy company. Certain research and development expenses were generally shared equally by the Partners, after adjusting for earned milestones. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is now owned 100% by the Company. The results of the MSP Partnership through the date of the Merger are reflected in Equity income from affiliates. The results from sales of MSP Partnership products after the Merger have been consolidated with Mercks results. Sales of joint venture products were as follows(1): 2009 ($ in millions) Pre Merger Post Merger Total 2008 2007 Vytorin $ 1,689.5 $ 370.6 $ 2,060.1 $ 2,360.0 $ 2,779.1 Zetia 1,697.7 370.3 2,068.0 2,201.1 2,407.1 $ 3,387.2 $ 740.9 $ 4,128.1 $ 4,561.1 $ 5,186.2 (1) Amounts exclude sales of these products by the Partners outside of the MSP Partnership. Following the previously announced ENHANCE and SEAS clinical trial results (discussed below), sales of Vytorin and Zetia declined in 2009 and 2008. As previously disclosed, in January 2008, the legacy companies announced the results of the Effect of Combination Ezetimibe and High Dose Simvastatin vs. Simvastatin Alone on the Atherosclerotic Process in Patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (ENHANCE) clinical trial, an imaging trial in 720 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very high levels of LDL bad cholesterol and greatly increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease. As previously reported, despite the fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/80 mg (Vytorin) significantly lowered LDL bad cholesterol more than simvastatin 80 mg alone, there was no significant difference between treatment with ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin alone on the pre specified primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of carotid artery walls over two years as measured by ultrasound. The Improved Reduction in High Risk Subjects Presenting with Acute Coronary Syndrome (IMPROVE IT) trial is underway and is designed to provide cardiovascular outcomes data for ezetimibe/simvastatin in patients with acute coronary syndrome. No incremental benefit of ezetimibe/ 89 Table of Contents simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. In January 2009, the FDA announced that it had completed its review of the final clinical study report of ENHANCE. The FDA stated that the results from ENHANCE did not change its position that elevated LDL cholesterol is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and that lowering LDL cholesterol reduces the risk for cardiovascular disease. On July 21, 2008, efficacy and safety results from the Simvastatin and Ezetimibe in Aortic Stenosis (SEAS) study were announced. SEAS was designed to evaluate whether intensive lipid lowering with Vytorin 10/40 mg would reduce the need for aortic valve replacement and the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality versus placebo in patients with asymptomatic mild to moderate aortic stenosis who had no indication for statin therapy. Vytorin failed to meet its primary end point for the reduction of major cardiovascular events. In the study, patients in the group who took Vytorin 10/40 mg had a higher incidence of cancer than the group who took placebo. There was also a nonsignificant increase in deaths from cancer in patients in the group who took Vytorin versus those who took placebo. Cancer and cancer deaths were distributed across all major organ systems. The Company believes the cancer finding in SEAS is likely to be an anomaly that, taken in light of all the available data, does not support an association with Vytorin. In August 2008, the FDA announced that it was investigating the results from the SEAS trial. In December 2009, the FDA announced that it had completed its review of the data from the SEAS trial as well as a review of interim data from the Study of Heart and Renal Protection (SHARP) and IMPROVE IT trials. Based on currently available information, the FDA indicated it believed it is unlikely that Vytorin or Zetia increase the risk of cancer related death. The SHARP trial is expected to be completed in 2010. The IMPROVE IT trial is scheduled for completion in 2013. In the IMPROVE IT trial, a blinded interim efficacy analysis will be conducted by the Data Safety Monitoring Board for the trial when approximately 50% of the endpoints have been accrued. That interim analysis is expected to be conducted in 2010. The Company is committed to working with regulatory agencies to further evaluate the available data and interpretations of those data; however, the Company does not believe that changes in the clinical use of Vytorin are warranted. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for information with respect to litigation involving the Partners and the MSP Partnership related to the sale and promotion of Zetia and Vytorin. The results from Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership through the completion of the Merger are recorded in Equity income from affiliates. Equity income was $1.2 billion in 2009, $1.5 billion in 2008 and $1.8 billion in 2007. The financial statements of the MSP Partnership for 2008 are included in Item 15. (a) (2) Financial Statement Schedules below. AstraZeneca LP In 1982, Old Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB (Astra) to develop and market Astras products under a royalty bearing license. In 1993, Old Mercks total sales of Astra products reached a level that triggered the first step in the establishment of a joint venture business carried on by Astra Merck Inc. (AMI), in which Old Merck and Astra each owned a 50% share. This joint venture, formed in 1994, developed and marketed most of Astras new prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec, the first of a class of medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining. In 1998, Old Merck and Astra completed the restructuring of the ownership and operations of the joint venture whereby Old Merck acquired Astras interest in AMI, renamed KBI Inc. (KBI), and contributed KBIs operating assets to a new U.S. limited partnership, Astra Pharmaceuticals L.P. (the Partnership), in exchange for a 1% limited partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP (AZLP) upon Astras 1999 merger with Zeneca Group Plc (the AstraZeneca merger), became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI retained rights. 90 Table of Contents While maintaining a 1% limited partner interest in AZLP, Merck has consent and protective rights intended to preserve its business and economic interests, including restrictions on the power of the general partner to make certain distributions or dispositions. Furthermore, in limited events of default, additional rights will be granted to the Company, including powers to direct the actions of, or remove and replace, the Partnerships chief executive officer and chief financial officer. Merck earns ongoing revenue based on sales of current and future KBI products and such revenue was $1.4 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. In addition, Merck earns certain Partnership returns, which are recorded in Equity income from affiliates. Such returns include a priority return provided for in the Partnership Agreement, variable returns based, in part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a preferential return representing Mercks share of undistributed AZLP GAAP earnings. These returns aggregated $674.3 million, $598.4 million and $820.1 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The AstraZeneca merger triggered a partial redemption in March 2008 of Old Mercks interest in certain AZLP product rights. Upon this redemption, Old Merck received $4.3 billion from AZLP. This amount was based primarily on a multiple of Old Mercks average annual variable returns derived from sales of the former Astra USA, Inc. products for the three years prior to the redemption (the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value). A pretax gain of $1.5 billion on the partial redemption was recorded in 2008. The partial redemption of Old Mercks interest in the product rights did not result in a change in Old Mercks 1% limited partnership interest. In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring, Astra purchased an option (the Asset Option) for a payment of $443.0 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to buy Old Mercks interest in the KBI products, excluding the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec (the Non PPI Products). AstraZeneca can exercise the Asset Option in the first half of 2010 at an exercise price of $647 million which represents the net present value as of March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be received by Old Merck from the Non PPI Products (the Appraised Value). On February 26, 2010, AstraZeneca notified the Company that it was exercising the Asset Option. Old Merck also had the right to require Astra to purchase such interest in 2008 at the Appraised Value. In February 2008, Old Merck advised AstraZeneca that it would not exercise the Asset Option, thus the $443.0 million remains deferred but will be recognized when the Asset Option is consummated. In addition, in 1998, Old Merck granted Astra an option (the Shares Option) to buy Old Mercks common stock interest in KBI and, therefore, Old Mercks interest in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable two years after Astras exercise of the Asset Option. Astra can also exercise the Shares Option in 2017 or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a minimum amount provided, in each case, only so long as AstraZenecas Asset Option has been exercised in 2010. The exercise price for the Shares Option is based on the net present value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec as determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain true up mechanisms. The AstraZeneca merger constituted a Trigger Event under the KBI restructuring agreements. As a result of the merger, in exchange for Old Mercks relinquishment of rights to future Astra products with no existing or pending U.S. patents at the time of the merger, Astra paid $967.4 million (the Advance Payment). The Advance Payment was deferred as it remained subject to a true up calculation (the True Up Amount) that was directly dependent on the fair market value in March 2008 of the Astra product rights retained by Old Merck. The calculated True Up Amount of $243.7 million was returned to AZLP in March 2008 and a pretax gain of $723.7 million was recognized related to the residual Advance Payment balance. Under the provisions of the KBI restructuring agreements, because a Trigger Event has occurred, the sum of the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value, the Appraised Value and the True Up Amount was guaranteed to be a minimum of $4.7 billion. Distribution of the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value less payment of the True Up Amount resulted in cash receipts to Old Merck of $4.0 billion and an aggregate pretax gain of $2.2 billion which is included in Other (income) expense, net in 2008. AstraZenecas purchase of Old Mercks interest in the Non PPI Products is contingent upon the exercise of the Asset Option by AstraZeneca in 2010 and, therefore, payment of the Appraised Value may or may not occur. Also, in March 2008, the $1.38 billion outstanding loan from Astra plus interest through the redemption date was settled. As a result of these transactions, Old Merck received net proceeds from AZLP of $2.6 billion in 2008. 91 Table of Contents Merial Limited In 1997, Old Merck and Rhne Poulenc S.A. (now sanofi aventis) combined their animal health businesses to form Merial Limited (Merial), a fully integrated animal health company, which was a stand alone joint venture, 50% owned by each party. Merial provides a comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to enhance the health, well being and performance of a wide range of animal species. On September 17, 2009, Old Merck sold its 50% interest in Merial to sanofi aventis for $4 billion in cash. The sale resulted in the recognition of a $3.2 billion gain reflected in Other income (expense), net in 2009. Also, in connection with the sale of Merial, Old Merck, sanofi aventis and Schering Plough signed a call option agreement. Under the terms of the call option agreement, following the closing of the Merger, sanofi aventis has an option to require the Company to combine its Intervet/Schering Plough Animal Health business with Merial to form an animal health joint venture that would be owned equally by the Company and sanofi aventis. As part of the call option agreement, the value of Merial has been fixed at $8 billion. The minimum total value received by the Company and its affiliates for contributing Intervet/Schering Plough to the combined entity would be $9.25 billion (subject to customary transaction adjustments), consisting of a floor valuation of Intervet/Schering Plough which is fixed at a minimum of $8.5 billion (subject to potential upward revision based on a valuation exercise by the two parties) and an additional payment by sanofi aventis of $750 million. Based on the valuation exercise of Intervet/Schering Plough and the customary transaction adjustments, if Merial and Intervet/Schering Plough are combined, a payment may be required to be paid by either party to make the joint venture equally owned by the Company and sanofi aventis. This payment would true up the value of the contributions so that they are equal. Any formation of a new animal health joint venture with sanofi aventis is subject to customary closing conditions including antitrust review in the United States and Europe. Prior to the closing of the Merger, the agreements provided Old Merck with certain rights to terminate the call option for a fee of $400 million. The recognition of the termination fee was deferred until the fourth quarter of 2009 when the conditions that could have triggered its payment lapsed. Sales of joint venture products were as follows: ($ in millions) 2009(1) 2008 2007 Fipronil products $ 783.9 $ 1,053.0 $ 1,033.3 Biological products 524.5 789.7 674.9 Avermectin products 341.4 511.8 478.4 Other products 199.7 288.2 262.2 $ 1,849.5 $ 2,642.7 $ 2,448.8 (1)Amounts for 2009 include sales until the September 17, 2009 divestiture date. Sanofi Pasteur MSD In 1994, Old Merck and Pasteur Merieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) established a 50% owned joint venture to market vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in Europe. Sales of joint venture products were as follows: ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Gardasil $ 549.2 $ 865.3 $ 476.0 Influenza vaccines 249.4 229.9 232.5 Other viral vaccines 112.1 105.1 86.8 Hepatitis vaccines 44.2 72.6 72.9 RotaTeq 42.2 28.4 15.7 Other vaccines 591.5 583.5 554.1 $ 1,588.6 $ 1,884.8 $ 1,438.0 92 Table of Contents Johnson JohnsonMerck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company In 1989, Old Merck formed a joint venture with Johnson Johnson to develop and market a broad range of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50% owned joint venture was subsequently expanded into Canada. Significant joint venture products are Pepcid AC, an over the counter form of the Companys ulcer medication Pepcid, as well as Pepcid Complete, an over the counter product which combines the Companys ulcer medication with antacids. Sales of joint venture products were as follows: ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Gastrointestinal products $ 202.0 $ 210.7 $ 218.5 Other products 1.2 1.4 1.2 $ 203.2 $ 212.1 $ 219.7 Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion in 2009, $1.3 billion in 2008 and $1.0 billion in 2007. Expenditures in the United States were $981.6 million in 2009, $946.6 million in 2008 and $788.0 million in 2007. Expenditures during 2009 included $801.5 million for production facilities, $161.2 million for research and development facilities, $33.6 million for environmental projects, and $464.3 million for administrative, safety and general site projects, of which approximately 25% represents capital investments related to a multi year initiative to standardize the Companys information systems. Depreciation expense was $1.7 billion in 2009, $1.4 billion in 2008 and $1.8 billion in 2007 of which $1.0 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, applied to locations in the United States. Total depreciation expense in 2009, 2008 and 2007 included accelerated depreciation of $348.6 million, $216.7 million and $460.6 million, respectively, associated with restructuring activities (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Analysis of Liquidity and Capital Resources Mercks strong financial profile enables it to fully fund research and development, focus on external alliances, support in line products and maximize upcoming launches while providing significant cash returns to shareholders. Selected Data ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Working capital $ 12,677.9 $ 4,793.9 $ 2,787.2 Total debt to total liabilities and equity 15.6 % 13.2 % 11.9 % Cash provided by operations to total debt 0.2:1 1.1:1 1.2:1 The $18 billion cash portion of the consideration for the Merger was funded with a combination of existing cash, including the proceeds from the sale of Old Mercks interest in Merial discussed above, the sale or redemption of short term investments and the issuance of debt. In preparation for the Merger, during 2009, Old Merck closed an underwritten public offering of $4.25 billion senior unsecured notes as discussed below. Additionally, a significant portion of the long term investments as of December 31, 2008 were liquidated in anticipation of the Merger. Cash provided by operating activities, which was $3.4 billion in 2009, $6.6 billion in 2008 and $7.0 billion in 2007, continues to be the Companys primary source of funds to finance operating needs, capital expenditures, treasury stock purchases and dividends paid to shareholders. Cash provided by operating activities in 2009 reflects $4.1 billion of payments into the Vioxx settlement funds and a $660 million payment made in connection with the previously disclosed settlement with the CRA. Cash provided by operating activities in 2008 reflects $2.1 billion received in connection with a partial redemption of Old Mercks partnership interest in AZLP, representing a 93 Table of Contents distribution of Old Mercks accumulated earnings on its investment in AZLP since inception. Cash provided by operating activities in 2008 was also affected by a $675 million payment made in connection with the previously disclosed resolution of investigations of civil claims by federal and state authorities relating to certain past marketing and selling activities and $750 million of payments into the Vioxx settlement funds. Cash provided by operating activities for 2007 reflects the payment made under a previously disclosed settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Cash provided by investing activities was $3.2 billion in 2009 compared with cash used by investing activities of $1.8 billion in 2008. The change was primarily driven by the release of restricted cash primarily due to the release of pledged collateral for certain Vioxx related matters, lower purchases of securities and other investments and proceeds from the 2009 disposition of Old Mercks interest in Merial. These increases in cash used by investing activities were partially offset by the use of cash to fund the Merger, as well as by a 2008 distribution from AZLP representing a return of Old Mercks investment in AZLP. Cash used by investing activities in 2008 was $1.8 billion compared with $2.8 billion in 2007. The lower use of cash by investing activities primarily reflects a distribution from AZLP in 2008 and a $1.1 billion payment in 2007 in connection with the December 2006 acquisition of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc., partially offset by higher net purchases of securities and other investments, higher capital expenditures and an increase in restricted assets. Cash used by financing activities was $1.6 billion in 2009 compared with $5.5 billion in 2008 reflecting the 2009 issuance of $4.25 billion senior unsecured notes, no purchases of treasury stock and lower payments on debt, partially offset by a net decrease in short term borrowings. Cash used in financing activities was $5.5 billion in 2008 compared with $4.9 billion in 2007 reflecting higher purchases of treasury stock, lower proceeds from the exercise stock options and higher payments on debt in connection with the settlement of a note due to Astra, partially offset by a net increase in short term borrowings. Dividends paid to stockholders were $3.2 billion in 2009 and $3.3 billion in 2008 and 2007. At December 31, 2009, the total of worldwide cash and investments was $10.0 billion, including $9.6 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, and $432.3 million of long term investments. In addition, the Company has $290 million of cash and investments restricted under certain collateral arrangements as discussed below. Working capital levels are more than adequate to meet the operating requirements of the Company. In August 2008, Old Merck executed a $4.1 billion letter of credit agreement with a financial institution, which satisfied certain conditions set forth in the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). Old Merck pledged collateral to the financial institution of approximately $5.1 billion pursuant to the terms of the letter of credit agreement. Although the amount of assets pledged as collateral was set by the letter of credit agreement and such assets are held in custody by a third party, the assets were managed by Old Merck. Old Merck considered the assets pledged under the letter of credit agreement to be restricted. The letter of credit amount and required collateral balances declined as payments (after the first $750 million) under the Settlement Agreement were made. As of December 31, 2008, $3.8 billion was recorded within Deferred income taxes and other current assets and $1.3 billion was classified as Other assets. During 2009, all remaining payments into the Vioxx settlement funds were made pursuant to the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement. Accordingly, the letter of credit agreement was terminated and the collateral was released. As previously disclosed, the IRS has completed its examination of Old Mercks tax returns for the years 1993 to 2001. As a result of the examination, Old Merck made an aggregate payment of $2.79 billion in February 2007. This payment was offset by (i) a tax refund of $165 million received in 2007 for amounts previously paid for these matters and (ii) a federal tax benefit of approximately $360 million related to interest included in the payment, resulting in a net cash cost to Old Merck of approximately $2.3 billion in 2007. The impact for years subsequent to 2001 for items reviewed as part of the examination was included in the payment although those years remain open in all other respects. The closing of the IRS examination did not have a material impact on results of operations in 2007 as these amounts had been previously accrued for. As previously disclosed, in October 2006, the CRA issued Old Merck a notice of reassessment containing adjustments related to certain intercompany pricing matters. In February 2009, Old Merck and the CRA negotiated a settlement agreement in regard to these matters. In accordance with the settlement, Old Merck paid an additional tax of approximately $300 million (U.S. dollars) and interest of approximately $360 million (U.S. dollars) with no 94 Table of Contents additional amounts or penalties due on this assessment. The settlement was accounted for in the first quarter of 2009. Old Merck had previously established reserves for these matters. A significant portion of the taxes paid is expected to be creditable for U.S. tax purposes. The resolution of these matters did not have a material effect on financial position or liquidity, other than with respect to the associated collateral as discussed below. In addition, in July 2007 and November 2008, the CRA proposed additional adjustments for 1999 and 2000, respectively, relating to other intercompany pricing matters. The adjustments would increase Canadian tax due by approximately $312 million (U.S. dollars) plus $314 million (U.S. dollars) of interest through December 31, 2009. It is possible that the CRA will propose similar adjustments for later years. The Company disagrees with the positions taken by the CRA and believes they are without merit. The Company intends to contest the assessments through the CRA appeals process and the courts if necessary. Management believes that resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on the Companys financial position or liquidity. In connection with the appeals process for the matters discussed above, during 2007, Old Merck pledged collateral to two financial institutions, one of which provided a guarantee to the CRA and the other to the Quebec Ministry of Revenue representing a portion of the tax and interest assessed. As a result of the settlement noted above, guarantees required to appeal the disputes were reduced or eliminated and approximately $960 million of associated collateral was released. Certain of the cash and investments continue to be collateralized for guarantees required to appeal other Canadian tax disputes. The collateral is included in Deferred income taxes and other current assets and Other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and totaled approximately $290 million and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The IRS is examining Old Mercks 2002 to 2005 federal income tax returns. In addition, various state and foreign tax examinations are in progress. For most of its other significant tax jurisdictions (both U.S. state and foreign), the Companys income tax returns are open for examination for the period 1999 through 2009. During the second quarter of 2007, the IRS completed its examination of Schering Ploughs 1997 2002 federal income tax returns. The Company is seeking resolution of an issue raised during this examination through the IRS administrative appeals process. In July 2007, Schering Plough made a payment of $98 million to the IRS pertaining to the 1997 2002 examination. The Companys income tax returns remain open with the IRS for the 1997 2009 tax years. During 2008, the IRS commenced its examination of the 2003 2006 federal income tax returns. This examination is expected to be completed in 2010. For most of its other significant tax jurisdictions (both U.S. state and foreign), the Companys income tax returns are open for examination for the period 2002 through 2009. The Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009 are as follows: Payments Due by Period ($ in millions) Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Purchase obligations $ 3,734.9 $ 2,380.8 $ 730.4 $ 523.0 $ 100.7 Loans payable and current portion of long term debt 1,362.3 1,362.3 Long term debt 15,329.1 2,378.5 3,966.5 8,984.1 Interest related to debt obligations 9,665.4 778.3 1,422.1 1,243.3 6,221.7 Unrecognized tax benefits (1) 324.0 324.0 Operating leases 944.8 281.6 393.4 195.1 74.7 $ 31,360.5 $ 5,127.0 $ 4,924.4 $ 5,927.9 $ 15,381.2 (1) As of December 31, 2009, the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, interest and penalties of $5.7 billion, including $324.0 million reflected as a current liability. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits beyond one year, a reasonable estimate of the period of cash settlement for years beyond 2010 can not be made. 95 Table of Contents Purchase obligations consist primarily of goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding and include obligations for minimum inventory contracts, research and development and advertising. Amounts reflected for research and development obligations do not include contingent milestone payments. Loans payable and current portion of long term debt also reflects $298.2 million of long dated notes that are subject to repayment at the option of the holders on an annual basis. Required funding obligations for 2010 relating to the Companys pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material. However, the Company currently anticipates contributing approximately $950 million and $50 million, respectively, to its pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans during 2010. On June 25, 2009, Old Merck closed an underwritten public offering of $4.25 billion senior unsecured notes consisting of $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 1.875% notes due 2011, $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.00% notes due 2015, $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.00% notes due 2019 and $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.85% notes due 2039. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually. The notes of each series are redeemable in whole or in part at any time, at the Companys option at the redemption prices specified in each notes associated prospectus. Proceeds from the notes were used to fund a portion of the cash consideration of the Merger. In December 2009, the Company filed a securities registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the automatic shelf registration process available to well known seasoned issuers which is effective for three years. Also, in connection with the Merger, on March 8, 2009, Old Merck entered into a financing commitment letter with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (collectively JPMorgan), under which JPMorgan committed to provide $7 billion of financing. On May 6, 2009, Old Merck entered into a $3 billion 364 day senior unsecured interim term loan facility (the bridge loan facility); a $3 billion 364 day asset sale revolving credit facility (the asset sale facility); and a $1 billion 364 day corporate revolving credit facility (the incremental facility). In connection with the above $4.25 billion offering, the bridge loan facility was terminated and the commitment of the lenders under the 364 day asset sale facility was reduced. Upon completion of the sale of Merial to sanofi aventis (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements), the asset sale facility was terminated. The incremental facility is available to backstop commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. This facility has not been drawn on and will expire in November 2010. Merck has incurred commitment fees of approximately $150 million associated with these facilities which are being amortized over the commitment period. In April 2009, Old Merck amended its $1.5 billion, 5 year revolving credit facility maturing in April 2013 to allow the facility to remain in place after the Merger. The Companys existing $2.0 billion credit facility maturing in August 2012 remains outstanding. These facilities provide backup liquidity for the Companys commercial paper borrowing facility and are for general corporate purposes. The Company has not drawn funding from either facility. Also, in connection with the Merger, effective as of November 3, 2009, New Merck executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of Old Merck and Old Merck executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of New Merck (excluding commercial paper), including for payments of principal and interest. The Companys long term credit ratings assigned by Moodys Investors Service and Standard Poors are Aa3 with a stable outlook and AA with a positive outlook, respectively. These ratings continue to allow access to the capital markets and flexibility in obtaining funds on competitive terms. The Company continues to maintain a conservative financial profile. The Company places its cash and investments in instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in its investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Despite this strong financial profile, certain contingent events, if realized, which are discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys liquidity and capital resources. The Company does not participate in any off balance sheet arrangements involving unconsolidated subsidiaries that provide financing or potentially expose the Company to unrecorded financial obligations. In November 2009 and February 2010, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.38 per share on the Companys common stock for the first and second quarter of 2010, respectively, and declared a 96 Table of Contents quarterly dividend of $3.75 per share on the 6% mandatory convertible preferred stock for the first and second quarter of 2010, respectively. In November 2009, the Board of Directors approved purchases over time of up to $3.0 billion of Mercks common stock for its treasury. No purchases of treasury stock were made in 2009. Old Merck purchased $2.7 billion and $1.4 billion of treasury stock in 2008 and 2007, respectively, under a previous program approved by Old Mercks Board of Directors in July 2002. Financial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures The Company manages the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on its earnings, cash flows and fair values of assets and liabilities through operational means and through the use of various financial instruments, including derivative instruments. A significant portion of the Companys revenues and earnings in foreign affiliates is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. The objectives and accounting related to the Companys foreign currency risk management program, as well as its interest rate risk management activities are discussed below. Foreign Currency Risk Management A significant portion of the Companys revenues are denominated in foreign currencies. Merck relies on sustained cash flows generated from foreign sources to support its long term commitment to U.S. dollar based research and development. To the extent the dollar value of cash flows is diminished as a result of a strengthening dollar, the Companys ability to fund research and other dollar based strategic initiatives at a consistent level may be impaired. The Company has established revenue hedging and balance sheet risk management programs to protect against volatility of future foreign currency cash flows and changes in fair value caused by volatility in foreign exchange rates at its U.S. functional currency entities. The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the potential for longer term unfavorable changes in foreign exchange to decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash flows derived from foreign currency denominated sales, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. To achieve this objective, the Company will partially hedge forecasted foreign currency denominated third party and intercompany distributor entity sales that are expected to occur over its planning cycle, typically no more than three years into the future. The Company will layer in hedges over time, increasing the portion of third party and intercompany distributor sales hedged as it gets closer to the expected date of the forecasted foreign currency denominated sales, such that it is probable the hedged transaction will occur. The portion of sales hedged is based on assessments of cost benefit profiles that consider natural offsetting exposures, revenue and exchange rate volatilities and correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The hedged anticipated sales are a specified component of a portfolio of similarly denominated foreign currency based sales transactions, each of which responds to the hedged risk in the same manner. The Company manages its anticipated transaction exposure principally with purchased local currency put options, which provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation, to sell foreign currencies in the future at a predetermined price. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, total changes in the options cash flows offset the decline in the expected future U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the options value reduces to zero, but the Company benefits from the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows. The Company also utilizes forward contracts in its revenue hedging program. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, the increase in the fair value of the forward contracts offsets the decrease in the expected future U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the decrease in the fair value of the forward contracts offsets the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows. While a weaker U.S. dollar would result in a net benefit, the market value of Mercks hedges would have declined by $245.0 million and $194.7 million, respectively, from a uniform 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2009 and 2008. The market value was determined using a foreign exchange option pricing model and holding all factors except exchange rates constant. Because Merck principally uses purchased local currency put options, a uniform weakening of the U.S. dollar will yield the largest overall potential loss in the market value of these options. The sensitivity measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not affect other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 97 Table of Contents 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near term changes in Mercks major foreign currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency of the Companys foreign subsidiaries, the primary objective of the balance sheet risk management program is to protect the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency denominated net monetary assets from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange that might occur prior to their conversion to U.S. dollars. In these instances, Merck principally utilizes forward exchange contracts, which enable the Company to buy and sell foreign currencies in the future at fixed exchange rates and economically offset the consequences of changes in foreign exchange on the amount of U.S. dollar cash flows derived from the net assets. Where the U.S. dollar is not the functional currency of the Companys foreign subsidiaries, Merck executes spot trades to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars based on short term forecast needs. These U.S. dollar proceeds are then invested until required by the Companys foreign subsidiaries. Merck routinely enters into contracts to offset the effects of exchange on exposures denominated in developed country currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. For exposures in developing country currencies, the Company will enter into forward contracts to partially offset the effects of exchange on exposures when it is deemed economical to do so based on a cost benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate and the cost of the hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the effect of exchange on monetary assets and liabilities by managing operating activities and net asset positions at the local level. When applicable, the Company uses forward contracts to hedge the changes in fair value of certain foreign currency denominated available for sale securities attributable to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar on foreign currency denominated derivatives, investments and monetary assets and liabilities indicated that if the U.S. dollar uniformly strengthened by 10% against all currency exposures of the Company at December 31, 2009, Income before taxes would have declined by $11.4 million in 2009. Because the Company is in a net long position relative to its major foreign currencies after consideration of forward contracts, a uniform strengthening of the U.S. dollar will yield the largest overall potential net loss in earnings due to exchange. At December 31, 2008, Old Merck was in a net short position relative to its major foreign currencies after consideration of forward contracts, therefore a uniform 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar would have reduced Income before taxes by $15.8 million. This measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not affect other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near term changes in Mercks major foreign currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The Venezuelan economy was recently determined to be hyperinflationary which requires the Company to remeasure its local currency operations there to U.S. dollars. Accordingly, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company will remeasure its monetary assets and liabilities for those operations in earnings in the first quarter. Effective January 11, 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency from BsF at 2.15 per U.S. dollar to a two tiered official exchange rate at (1) the essentials rate at BsF 2.60 per U.S. dollar and (2) the non essentials rate at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. The Companys products are expected to be classified as essentials and anticipates that the majority of its transactions will be settled at the essential rate of BsF 2.60 per U.S. dollar. These actions will have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Interest Rate Risk Management In addition to the revenue hedging and balance sheet risk management programs, the Company may use interest rate swap contracts on certain investing and borrowing transactions to manage its net exposure to interest rate changes and to reduce its overall cost of borrowing. The Company does not use leveraged swaps and, in general, does not leverage any of its investment activities that would put principal capital at risk. At December 31, 2009, the Company was a party to seven pay floating, receive fixed interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges of fixed rate notes in which the notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed rate notes. There are two swaps maturing in 2011 with notional amounts of $125 million each that effectively convert the Companys $250 million, 5.125% fixed rate notes due 2011 to floating rate instruments and five swaps maturing in 2015 with notional amounts of $150 million each that effectively convert $750 million of the Companys $1.0 billion, 4.0% fixed rate notes due 2015 to floating rate instruments. The fair value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate are recorded in interest expense and offset by the fair value changes in the swap 98 Table of Contents contracts. In 2008, Old Merck terminated four interest rate swap contracts with notional amounts of $250 million each, and terminated one interest rate swap contract with a notional amount of $500 million. These swaps had effectively converted its $1.0 billion, 4.75% fixed rate notes due 2015 and its $500 million, 4.375% fixed rate notes due 2013 to variable rate debt. As a result of the swap terminations, Old Merck received $128.3 million in cash, excluding accrued interest which was not material. The corresponding gains related to the basis adjustment of the debt associated with the terminated swap contracts were deferred and are being amortized as a reduction of interest expense over the remaining term of the notes. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The Companys investment portfolio includes cash equivalents and short term investments, the market values of which are not significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The market value of the Companys medium to long term fixed rate investments is modestly affected by changes in U.S. interest rates. Changes in medium to long term U.S. interest rates have a more significant impact on the market value of the Companys fixed rate borrowings, which generally have longer maturities. A sensitivity analysis to measure potential changes in the market value of Mercks investments, debt and related swap contracts from a change in interest rates indicated that a one percentage point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2009 and 2008 would have positively affected the net aggregate market value of these instruments by $990.1 million and $98.9 million, respectively. A one percentage point decrease at December 31, 2009 and 2008 would have negatively affected the net aggregate market value by $1,152.7 million and $156.3 million, respectively. The increased sensitivity to interest rate movements from the prior year is attributable to the sale or redemption of long term fixed rate investments to fund the merger, as well as an increase in debt, which included existing Schering Plough debt as well as debt issued in 2009 to fund the Merger. The fair value of Mercks debt was determined using pricing models reflecting one percentage point shifts in the appropriate yield curves. The fair values of the Mercks investments were determined using a combination of pricing and duration models. Critical Accounting Policies and Other Matters The Companys consolidated financial statements include certain amounts that are based on managements best estimates and judgments. Estimates are used when accounting for amounts recorded in connection with mergers and acquisitions, including fair value determinations of assets and liabilities. Additionally, estimates are used in determining such items as provisions for sales discounts and returns, depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of inventories, including those produced in preparation for product launches, amounts recorded for contingencies, environmental liabilities and other reserves, pension and other postretirement benefit plan assumptions, share based compensation assumptions, restructuring costs, impairments of long lived assets (including intangible assets and goodwill) and investments, and taxes on income. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Application of the following accounting policies result in accounting estimates having the potential for the most significant impact on the financial statements. Mergers and Acquisitions On January 1, 2009, new guidance issued by the FASB was adopted which changes the way in which the acquisition method is to be applied in a business combination and also changes the way assets and liabilities are recognized in purchase accounting on a prospective basis. The acquisition method of accounting requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values with limited exceptions. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies are recognized at fair value if fair value can reasonably be estimated. If the acquisition date fair value of an asset acquired or liability assumed that arises from a contingency cannot be determined, the asset or liability is recognized if probable and reasonably estimable; if these criteria are not met, no asset or liability is recognized. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Accordingly, the Company may be required to value assets at fair value measures that do not reflect the Companys intended use of those assets. Any excess of the purchase price (consideration transferred) over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Transaction costs and costs to restructure the acquired company are expensed as incurred. If the Company determines the asset acquired does not meet the definition of a business under the acquisition method of accounting, the transaction will 99 Table of Contents be accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than a business combination, and therefore, no goodwill will be recorded. The fair value of intangible assets, including acquired in process research and development, is based on significant judgments made by management, and accordingly, for significant items, the Company typically obtains assistance from third party valuation specialists. Amounts are allocated to acquired in process research and development are capitalized and accounted for similar to indefinite lived intangible assets, subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the projects. Upon successful completion of each project, Merck will make a separate determination as to the then useful life of the asset and begin amortization. The valuations and useful life assumptions are based on information available near the merger or acquisition date and are based on expectations and assumptions that are deemed reasonable by management. The judgments made in determining estimated fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially affect the Companys results of operations. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to currently marketed products and product rights are primarily determined by using an income approach, through which fair value is estimated based on each assets discounted projected net cash flows. The Companys estimates of market participant net cash flows consider historical and projected pricing, margins and expense levels; the performance of competing products where applicable; relevant industry and therapeutic area growth drivers and factors; current and expected trends in technology and product life cycles; the time and investment that will be required to develop products and technologies; the ability to obtain marketing and regulatory approvals; the ability to manufacture and commercialize the products; the extent and timing of potential new product introductions by the Companys competitors; and the life of each assets underlying patent, if any. The net cash flows are then probability adjusted where appropriate to consider the uncertainties associated with the underlying assumptions, as well as the risk profile of the net cash flows utilized in the valuation. The probability adjusted future net cash flows of each product are then discounted to present value utilizing an appropriate discount rate. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to IPRD are determined using an income approach, through which fair value is estimated based on each assets probability adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the different stages of development of each product and the associated probability of successful completion. The net cash flows are then discounted to present value using an appropriate discount rate. Revenue Recognition Revenues from sales of products are recognized at the time of delivery and when title and risk of loss passes to the customer. Recognition of revenue also requires reasonable assurance of collection of sales proceeds and completion of all performance obligations. Domestically, sales discounts are issued to customers as direct discounts at the point of sale or indirectly through an intermediary wholesaler, known as chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of return under certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for sales discounts and returns, which are established at the time of sale. The provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts covers chargebacks and rebates. Chargebacks are discounts that occur when a contracted customer purchases directly through an intermediary wholesaler. The contracted customer generally purchases product at its contracted price plus a mark up from the wholesaler. The wholesaler, in turn, charges the Company back for the difference between the price initially paid by the wholesaler and the contract price paid to the wholesaler by the customer. The provision for chargebacks is based on expected sell through levels by the Companys wholesale customers to contracted customers, as well as estimated wholesaler inventory levels. Rebates are amounts owed based upon definitive contractual agreements or legal requirements with private sector and public sector (Medicaid and Medicare Part D) benefit providers, after the final dispensing of the product by a pharmacy to a benefit plan participant. The provision is based on expected payments, which are driven by patient usage and contract performance by the benefit provider customers. The Company uses historical customer segment mix, adjusted for other known events, in order to estimate the expected provision. Amounts accrued for aggregate indirect customer discounts are evaluated on a quarterly basis through comparison of information provided by the wholesalers, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other customers to the amounts accrued. Adjustments are recorded when trends or significant events indicate that a change in the estimated provision is appropriate. 100 Table of Contents The Company continually monitors its provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts. There were no material adjustments to estimates associated with the aggregate indirect customer discount provision in 2009, 2008 or 2007. Summarized information about changes in the aggregate indirect customer discount accrual is as follows: ($ in millions) 2009 2008 Balance, January 1 $ 616.3 $ 699.4 Current provision 2,541.9 2,037.5 Schering Plough accrual assumed in the Merger 584.1 Adjustments to prior years (22.3 ) (13.7 ) Payments (2,347.4 ) (2,106.9 ) Balance, December 31 $ 1,372.6 $ 616.3 Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct reduction to accounts receivable and accruals for rebates as current liabilities. The accrued balances relative to these provisions included in Accounts receivable and Accrued and other current liabilities were $115.0 million and $1,257.6 million, respectively, at December 31, 2009 and $55.6 million and $560.7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008. The Company maintains a returns policy that allows its customers to return product within a specified period prior to and subsequent to the expiration date (generally, three to six months before and twelve months after product expiration). The estimate of the provision for returns is based upon historical experience with actual returns. Additionally, the Company considers factors such as levels of inventory in the distribution channel, product dating and expiration period, whether products have been discontinued, entrance in the market of additional generic competition, changes in formularies or launch of over the counter products, among others. The product returns provision, as well as actual returns, were less than 1.0% of net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007. Through its distribution programs with U.S. wholesalers, the Company encourages wholesalers to align purchases with underlying demand and maintain inventories below specified levels. The terms of the programs allow the wholesalers to earn fees upon providing visibility into their inventory levels as well as by achieving certain performance parameters, such as, inventory management, customer service levels, reducing shortage claims and reducing product returns. Information provided through the wholesaler distribution programs includes items such as sales trends, inventory on hand, on order quantity and product returns. Wholesalers generally provide only the above mentioned data to the Company, as there is no regulatory requirement to report lot level information to manufacturers, which is the level of information needed to determine the remaining shelf life and original sale date of inventory. Given current wholesaler inventory levels, which are generally less than a month, the Company believes that collection of order lot information across all wholesale customers would have limited use in estimating sales discounts and returns. Inventories Produced in Preparation for Product Launches The Company capitalizes inventories produced in preparation for product launches sufficient to support estimated initial market demand. Typically, capitalization of such inventory does not begin until the related product candidates are in Phase III clinical trials and are considered to have a high probability of regulatory approval. The Company monitors the status of each respective product within the regulatory approval process; however, the Company generally does not disclose specific timing for regulatory approval. If the Company is aware of any specific risks or contingencies other than the normal regulatory approval process or if there are any specific issues identified during the research process relating to safety, efficacy, manufacturing, marketing or labeling, the related inventory would generally not be capitalized. Expiry dates of the inventory are affected by the stage of completion. The Company manages the levels of inventory at each stage to optimize the shelf life of the inventory in relation to anticipated market demand in order to avoid product expiry issues. For inventories that are capitalized, anticipated future sales and shelf lives support the realization of the inventory value as the inventory shelf life is sufficient to meet initial product launch requirements. Inventories produced in preparation for product launches capitalized at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were not significant. 101 Table of Contents Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business, including product liability, intellectual property and commercial litigation, as well as additional matters such as antitrust actions. (See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.) The Company records accruals for contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These accruals are adjusted periodically as assessments change or additional information becomes available. For product liability claims, a portion of the overall accrual is actuarially determined and considers such factors as past experience, number of claims reported and estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Individually significant contingent losses are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. As of December 31, 2008, Old Merck had an aggregate reserve of approximately $4.379 billion (the Vioxx Reserve) for the Settlement Program and future legal defense costs worldwide related to (i) the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, (ii) the Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits, (iii) the Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the Vioxx Investigations (collectively, the Vioxx Litigation) (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). During 2009, Merck spent approximately $244 million in the aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide, including approximately $54 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, related to the Vioxx Litigation. In addition, during 2009, Old Merck paid an additional $4.1 billion into the settlement funds in connection with the Settlement Program. Also, during 2009, Merck recorded charges of $75 million, including $35 million in the fourth quarter, solely for its future legal defense costs for the Vioxx Litigation. Consequently, as of December 31, 2009, the aggregate amount of the Vioxx Reserve was approximately $110 million, which is solely for future legal defense costs for the Vioxx Litigation. Some of the significant factors considered in the review of the Vioxx Reserve were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company; the development of the Companys legal defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of the Vioxx Litigation, including the Settlement Agreement and the expectation that certain lawsuits will continue to be pending; the number of cases being brought against the Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most current information regarding anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre trial activities and trials in the Vioxx Litigation. The amount of the Vioxx Reserve as of December 31, 2009 represents the Companys best estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs to be incurred in connection with the remaining aspects of the Vioxx Litigation; however, events such as additional trials in the Vioxx Litigation and other events that could arise in the course of the Vioxx Litigation could affect the ultimate amount of defense costs to be incurred by the Company. The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves and may determine to increase the Vioxx Reserve at any time in the future if, based upon the factors set forth, it believes it would be appropriate to do so. There are two U.S. Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits trials scheduled for 2010. The Company cannot predict the timing of any other trials related to the Vioxx Litigation. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the Vioxx Lawsuits and will vigorously defend against them. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the claimants seek indeterminate damages, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits not included in the Settlement Program. The Company has not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the Vioxx Lawsuits not included in the Settlement Program, other than a reserve established in connection with the resolution of the shareholder derivative lawsuits (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements), or the Vioxx Investigations. Unfavorable outcomes in the Vioxx Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, liquidity and results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, the Old Merck had a remaining reserve of approximately $33 million solely for its future legal defense costs for the Fosamax Litigation. During 2009, Merck spent approximately $35 million and added $40 million to its reserve. Consequently, as of December 31, 2009, the Company had a reserve of approximately $38 million solely for its future legal defense costs for the Fosamax Litigation. Some of the significant factors considered in the establishment of the reserve for the Fosamax Litigation legal defense costs were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company thus far; the development of the Companys legal defense strategy and structure in light of the creation of the Fosamax multidistrict litigation; the number of cases being brought against the Company; and the anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre trial activities in the 102 Table of Contents Fosamax Litigation. The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves. Due to the uncertain nature of litigation, the Company is unable to estimate its costs beyond the third quarter of 2010. The Company has not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the Fosamax Litigation. Unfavorable outcomes in the Fosamax Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, liquidity and results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents. When a legitimate claim for contribution is asserted, a liability is initially accrued based upon the estimated transaction costs to manage the site. Accruals are adjusted as site investigations, feasibility studies and related cost assessments of remedial techniques are completed, and as the extent to which other potentially responsible parties who may be jointly and severally liable can be expected to contribute is determined. The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites and takes an active role in identifying and providing for these costs. In the past, Old Merck performed a worldwide survey to assess all sites for potential contamination resulting from past industrial activities. Where assessment indicated that physical investigation was warranted, such investigation was performed, providing a better evaluation of the need for remedial action. Where such need was identified, remedial action was then initiated. As definitive information became available during the course of investigations and or remedial efforts at each site, estimates were refined and accruals were established or adjusted accordingly. These estimates and related accruals continue to be refined annually. A similar process is being followed for legacy Schering Plough sites. The Company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $16.6 million in 2009, and are estimated at $55 million for the years 2010 through 2014. In managements opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $161.8 million and $89.5 million at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not consider potential recoveries from other parties and will be paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next 15 years. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $170.0 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. Share Based Compensation The Company expenses all share based payment awards to employees, including grants of stock options, over the requisite service period based on the grant date fair value of the awards. The Company determines the fair value of certain share based awards using the Black Scholes option pricing model which uses both historical and current market data to estimate the fair value. This method incorporates various assumptions such as the risk free interest rate, expected volatility, expected dividend yield and expected life of the options. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans Net pension and other postretirement benefit cost totaled $511.1 million in 2009, $376.6 million in 2008 and $489.3 million in 2007. The increase in 2009 as compared with 2008 is primarily due to $118.2 million of costs associated with Schering Plough benefit plans from the date of the Merger through December 31, 2009. The decrease in 2008 as compared with 2007 is primarily due to the lower amortization of actuarial net losses and higher expected return on plan assets which were partially offset by an increase in termination benefits attributable to restructuring actions. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan information for financial reporting purposes is calculated using actuarial assumptions including a discount rate for plan benefit obligations and an expected rate of return on plan assets. The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. For both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans, the discount rate is evaluated on measurement dates and modified to reflect the 103 Table of Contents prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high quality fixed income debt instruments that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligation as they come due. At December 31, 2009, the discount rates for the Companys U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans ranged from 4.60% to 6.00% compared with a range of 6.00% to 6.40% at December 31, 2008. The expected rate of return for both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans represents the average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits included in the benefit obligation are to be paid. In developing the expected rate of return, the Company considers long term compound annualized returns of historical market data as well as actual returns on the Companys plan assets. Using this reference information, the Company develops forward looking return expectations for each asset category and a weighted average expected long term rate of return for a target portfolio allocated across these investment categories. The expected portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active management as appropriate. As a result of this analysis, for 2010, the Companys expected rate of return will range from 8.00% to 8.75% compared to a range of 7.50% to 8.75% in 2009 for its U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The Company has established investment guidelines for its U.S. pension and other postretirement plans to create an asset allocation that is expected to deliver a rate of return sufficient to meet the long term obligation of each plan, given an acceptable level of risk. The target investment portfolio of the Companys U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans is allocated 45% to 60% in U.S. equities, 20% to 30% in international equities, 15% to 25% in fixed income investments, and up to 8% in cash and other investments. The portfolios equity weighting is consistent with the long term nature of the plans benefit obligations. The expected annual standard deviation of returns of the target portfolio, which approximates 13%, reflects both the equity allocation and the diversification benefits among the asset classes in which the portfolio invests. For non U.S. pension plans, the targeted investment portfolio varies based on the duration of pension liabilities and local government rules and regulations. Although a significant percentage of plan assets are invested in U.S. equities, concentration risk is mitigated through the use of strategies that are diversified within management guidelines. Actuarial assumptions are based upon managements best estimates and judgment. A reasonably possible change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $54.3 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on its net pension and postretirement benefit cost. A reasonably possible change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the expected rate of return assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $23.9 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on its net pension and postretirement benefit cost. Required funding obligations for 2010 relating to the Companys pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material. The preceding hypothetical changes in the discount rate and expected rate of return assumptions would not impact the Companys funding requirements. Net loss amounts, which reflect experience differentials primarily relating to differences between expected and actual returns on plan assets as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recorded as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income. Expected returns for pension plans are based on a calculated market related value of assets. Under this methodology, asset gains/losses resulting from actual returns that differ from the Companys expected returns are recognized in the market related value of assets ratably over a five year period. Also, net loss amounts in Accumulated other comprehensive income in excess of certain thresholds are amortized into net pension and other postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining service life of employees. Amortization of net losses for the Companys U.S. plans at December 31, 2009 is expected to increase net pension and other postretirement benefit cost by approximately $53 million annually from 2010 through 2014. Restructuring Costs Restructuring costs have been recorded in connection with restructuring programs designed to reduce the cost structure, increase efficiency and enhance competitiveness. As a result, the Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its future plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs to be incurred when the restructuring actions take place. In connection with these actions, management also assesses the recoverability of long lived assets employed in the business. In certain instances, asset lives have been shortened based on changes in the expected useful lives of the affected assets. Severance and other related costs are reflected within Restructuring costs. Asset related charges are reflected within Materials and production costs and Research and development expenses depending upon the nature of the asset. 104 Table of Contents Impairments of Long Lived Assets The Company assesses changes in economic, regulatory and legal conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows in evaluating the value of the Companys property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company periodically evaluates whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of its long lived assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows of these assets, or appropriate asset groupings, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If the asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the assets fair value and its carrying value. If quoted market prices are not available, the Company will estimate fair value using a discounted value of estimated future cash flows approach. The Company tests its goodwill for impairment at least annually using a fair value based test. Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets of businesses purchased and is assigned to reporting units. Other acquired intangibles (excluding in process research and development) are recorded at fair value and amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. When events or circumstances warrant a review, the Company will assess recoverability from future operations using pretax undiscounted cash flows derived from the lowest appropriate asset groupings. Impairments are recognized in operating results to the extent that the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, which is determined based on the net present value of estimated cash flows. The Company tests its indefinite lived intangibles, including in process research and development, for impairment at least annually, through a one step test that compares the fair value of the indefinite lived intangible asset with the assets carrying value. For impairment testing purposes, the Company may combine separately recorded indefinite lived intangible assets into one unit of account based on the relevant facts and circumstances. Generally, the Company will combine indefinite lived intangible assets for testing purposes if they operate as a single asset and are essentially inseparable. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized within the Companys operating results. Impairments of Investments The Company reviews its investments for impairments based on the determination of whether the decline in market value of the investment below the carrying value is other than temporary. The Company considers available evidence in evaluating potential impairments of its investments, including the duration and extent to which fair value is less than cost, and for equity securities, the Companys ability and intent to hold the investments. On April 1, 2009, new authoritative guidance from the FASB was adopted which amended the other than temporary recognition guidance for debt securities. Pursuant to this new guidance, an other than temporary impairment has occurred if the Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. If the Company does not intend to sell the impaired debt security, and it is not more likely than not it will be required to sell the debt security before the recovery of its amortized cost basis, the amount of the other than temporary impairment recognized in earnings is limited to the portion attributed to credit loss. The remaining portion of the other than temporary impairment related to other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income. Taxes on Income The Companys effective tax rate is based on pretax income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. An estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to the Companys quarterly operating results. In the event that there is a significant unusual or one time item recognized, or expected to be recognized, in the Companys quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item would be separately calculated and recorded at the same time as the unusual or one time item. The Company considers the resolution of prior year tax matters to be such items. Significant judgment is required in determining the Companys tax provision and in evaluating its tax positions. The recognition and measurement of a tax position is based on managements best judgment given the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. The Company evaluates tax positions to determine whether the benefits of tax positions are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit based on the technical merits of the tax 105 Table of Contents position. For tax positions that are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company recognizes the largest amount of the benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement in the financial statements. For tax positions that are not more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company does not recognize any portion of the benefit in the financial statements. If the more likely than not threshold is not met in the period for which a tax position is taken, the Company may subsequently recognize the benefit of that tax position if the tax matter is effectively settled, the statute of limitations expires, or if the more likely than not threshold is met in a subsequent period. (See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.) Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. Timing differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the tax return in future years for which the Company has already recorded the tax benefit in the financial statements. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial statements for which payment has been deferred or expense for which the Company has already taken a deduction on the tax return, but has not yet recognized as expense in the financial statements. At December 31, 2009, foreign earnings of $31.2 billion have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary companies for reinvestment, therefore no provision has been made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In June 2009, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting and disclosure requirements for transfers of financial assets, which is effective January 1, 2010. The amendment eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity, changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets and requires enhanced disclosures to provide financial statement users with greater transparency about transfers of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and an entitys continuing involvement in and exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets. The effect of adoption on the Companys financial position and results of operations is not expected to be material. Also in June 2009, the FASB amended the existing accounting and disclosure guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities, which is effective January 1, 2010. The amended guidance requires enhanced disclosures intended to provide users of financial statements with more transparent information about an enterprises involvement in a variable interest entity. The effect of adoption on the Companys financial position and results of operations is not expected to be material. In October 2009, the FASB issued new guidance for revenue recognition with multiple deliverables, which is effective for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, although early adoption is permitted. This guidance eliminates the residual method under the current guidance and replaces it with the relative selling price method when allocating revenue in a multiple deliverable arrangement. The selling price for each deliverable shall be determined using vendor specific objective evidence of selling price, if it exists, otherwise third party evidence of selling price shall be used. If neither exists for a deliverable, the vendor shall use its best estimate of the selling price for that deliverable. After adoption, this guidance will also require expanded qualitative and quantitative disclosures. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adoption on its financial position and results of operations. In January 2010, the FASB amended the existing disclosure guidance on fair value measurements, which is effective January 1, 2010, except for disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, which is effective January 1, 2011. Among other things, the updated guidance requires additional disclosure for the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 measurements and requires certain Level 3 disclosures on a gross basis. Additionally, the updates amend existing guidance to require a greater level of disaggregated information and more robust disclosures about valuation techniques and inputs to fair value measurements. Since the amended guidance requires only additional disclosures, the adoption will not affect the Companys financial position or results of operations. 106 Table of Contents Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results This report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company may contain so called forward looking statements, all of which are based on managements current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. One can identify these forward looking statements by their use of words such as expects, plans, will, estimates, forecasts, projects and other words of similar meaning. One can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to address the Companys growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential and development programs. One must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the Companys forward looking statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. No forward looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. The Company does not assume the obligation to update any forward looking statement. One should carefully evaluate such statements in light of factors, including risk factors, described in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, especially on Forms 10 K, 10 Q and 8 K. In Item 1A. Risk Factors of this annual report on Form 10 K the Company discusses in more detail various important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historic results. The Company notes these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. One should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under Financial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 107 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Description of Mercks Business On November 3, 2009, Merck Co., Inc. (Old Merck) and Schering Plough Corporation (Schering Plough) completed their previously announced merger (the Merger). In the Merger, Schering Plough acquired all of the shares of Old Merck, which became a wholly owned subsidiary of Schering Plough and was renamed Merck Sharp Dohme Corp. Schering Plough continued as the surviving public company and was renamed Merck Co., Inc. (New Merck or the Company). However, for accounting purposes only, the Merger was treated as an acquisition with Old Merck considered the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, the accompanying financial statements reflect Old Mercks stand alone operations as they existed prior to the completion of the Merger. The results of Schering Ploughs business have been included in New Mercks financial statements only for periods subsequent to the completion of the Merger. Therefore, New Mercks financial results for 2009 do not reflect a full year of legacy Schering Plough operations. References in this report and in the accompanying financial statements to Merck for periods prior to the Merger refer to Old Merck and for periods after the completion of the Merger to New Merck. The Company is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies, and consumer and animal products, which it markets directly and through its joint ventures. The Companys operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of one reportable segment, which is the Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventative pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Companys professional representatives communicate the effectiveness, safety and value of its pharmaceutical and vaccine products to health care professionals in private practice, group practices and managed care organizations. The Company also has animal health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines. The Companys professional representatives communicate the safety and value of the Companys animal health products to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Additionally, the Company has consumer health care operations that develop, manufacture and market Over the Counter (OTC), foot care and sun care products, which are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets in the United States and Canada. Overview As discussed above, the Merger was completed on November 3, 2009. In the Merger, Old Merck shareholders received one share of common stock of New Merck for each share of Old Merck stock that they owned, and Schering Plough shareholders received 0.5767 of a share of common stock of New Merck and $10.50 in cash for each share of Schering Plough stock that they owned. The consideration in the Merger was valued at $49.6 billion in the aggregate. Schering Plough was Old Mercks long term partner in the Merck/Schering Plough cholesterol partnership (the MSP Partnership). The cash portion of the consideration was funded with a combination of existing cash, including proceeds from the sale of Old Mercks interest in Merial Limited, the sale or redemption of investments and the issuance of debt. The combined company has a research and development pipeline with greater depth and breadth and many promising drug candidates, a significantly broader portfolio of medicines and an expanded presence in key international markets, particularly in high growth emerging markets. The Company anticipates that the efficiencies gained from the Merger will allow it to invest in promising pipeline candidates, as well as strategic external research and development opportunities. The combination increased the Companys pipeline of early, mid and late stage product candidates, including a significant increase in the number of potential medicines the Company has in Phase III development to 63 Table of Contents 19 candidates. Additionally, a number of candidates are currently under review in the United States and internationally. The Merger also is expected to accelerate the expansion into therapeutic areas that Old Merck has focused on in recent years with the addition of Schering Ploughs established presence and expertise in oncology, neuroscience and novel biologics. Further, the Merger is expected to broaden the Companys commercial portfolio with leading franchises in key therapeutic areas, including cardiovascular, respiratory, oncology, neuroscience, infectious diseases, immunology and womens health. Additionally, the combined company is expected to realize potential benefits from its animal health business and portfolio of consumer health brands, including Claritin, Coppertone and Dr. Scholls. Many of the legacy Schering Ploughs products are expected to have long periods of marketing exclusivity and, by leveraging the combined companys expanded product offerings, the Company expects to benefit from additional revenue growth opportunities. For example, the combined company is expected to have expanded opportunities for life cycle management through the introduction of potential new combinations and formulations of existing products of the two legacy companies. Also, the Company will have an expanded global presence and a more geographically diverse revenue base. Schering Ploughs significant international presence will accelerate Old Mercks own international growth efforts. During 2009, revenue increased 15% driven largely by the incremental sales resulting from the inclusion of the post Merger results of legacy Schering Plough products, such as Remicade, a treatment for inflammatory diseases, Temodar, a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, Nasonex nasal spray, an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, and PegIntron for treating chronic hepatitis C, as well as the recognition of revenue from sales of Zetia and Vytorin, cholesterol modifying medicines. Prior to the Merger, sales of Zetia and Vytorin were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is now wholly owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these products for the post Merger period are reflected in Sales. Additionally, the Company recognized sales in the post Merger period from legacy Schering Plough animal health and consumer health care products. Also contributing to the sales increase was growth in Januvia and Janumet for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, Isentress, an antiretroviral therapy for the treatment of HIV infection, Singulair, a medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, Varivax, a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella), and Pneumovax, a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Fosamax for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis. Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D lost market exclusivity for substantially all formulations in the United States in February 2008 and April 2008, respectively. Revenue was also negatively affected by lower sales of Gardasil, a vaccine to help prevent cervical, vulvar and vaginal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions, and genital warts caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) types 6, 11, 16 and 18, Cosopt/Trusopt, ophthalmic products which lost U.S. market exclusivity in October 2008, and lower revenue from the Companys relationship with AstraZeneca LP (AZLP). Other products experiencing declines include RotaTeq, a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, Zocor, the Companys statin for modifying cholesterol and Primaxin for the treatment of bacterial infections. As a result of the Merger, the Company expects to achieve substantial cost savings across all areas, including from consolidation in both sales and marketing and research and development, the application of the Companys lean manufacturing and sourcing strategies to the expanded operations, and the full integration of the MSP Partnership. In February 2010, the Company announced the first phase of a new global restructuring program (the Merger Restructuring Program) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy Merck and legacy Schering Plough businesses. This Merger Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure of the combined Company. As part of the first phase of the Merger Restructuring Program, by the end of 2012, the Company expects to reduce its total workforce by approximately 15% across all areas of the Company worldwide. The Company also plans to eliminate 2,500 vacant positions as part of the first phase of the program. These workforce reductions will primarily come from the elimination of duplicative positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the consolidation of certain manufacturing facilities and research and development operations. The Company will continue to hire new employees in strategic growth areas of the business during this period. Certain actions, such as the ongoing reevaluation of manufacturing and research and development facilities 64 Table of Contents worldwide have not yet been completed, but will be included later in 2010 in other phases of the Merger Restructuring Program. In connection with the first phase of the Merger Restructuring Program, separation costs under the Companys existing severance programs worldwide were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009 to the extent such costs were probable and reasonably estimable. The Company recorded pretax restructuring costs of $1.5 billion, primarily employee separation costs, related to the Merger Restructuring Program in the fourth quarter of 2009. This first phase of the Merger Restructuring Program is expected to be completed by the end of 2012 with the total pretax costs estimated to be $2.6 billion to $3.3 billion. The Company estimates that approximately 85% of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation expense. Approximately 15% of the cumulative pretax costs are non cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested. The Company expects this first phase of the Merger Restructuring Program to yield annual savings in 2012 of approximately $2.6 billion to $3.0 billion. These anticipated savings relate only to the first phase of the Merger Restructuring Program and therefore are only a portion of the estimated $3.5 billion of incremental annual savings originally disclosed when the Merger was announced. The Company expects that additional savings will be generated by subsequent phases of the Merger Restructuring Program that will be announced later this year, as well as by non restructuring related activities, such as procurement savings initiatives. These cost savings, which are expected to come from all areas of the Companys pharmaceutical business, are in addition to the previously announced ongoing cost reduction initiatives at both legacy companies. As a result of the Merger, the Company obtained a controlling interest in the MSP Partnership and it is now owned 100% by the Company. Accordingly, the Company was required to remeasure Mercks previously held equity interest in the MSP Partnership at its merger date fair value and recognize the resulting gain in earnings. As a result, the Company recorded a gain of $7.5 billion recognized in Other (income) expense, net in 2009. Also during 2009, Old Merck sold its 50% interest in Merial Limited (Merial) to sanofi aventis for $4 billion in cash. The sale resulted in the recognition of a $3.2 billion gain reflected in Other (income) expense, net in 2009. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Earnings per common share (EPS) assuming dilution for 2009 were $5.65, which reflect a net impact of $2.40 resulting from gains related to the MSP Partnership and the sale of Merial, partially offset by increased expenses from the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, restructuring and merger related costs. EPS in 2009 were also affected by the dilutive impact of shares issued in the Merger. Competition and the Health Care Environment Competition The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Companys operations may be affected by technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post marketing surveillance and generic competition as the Companys products mature. In addition, patent positions are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted. Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances such as joint ventures and licenses and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacement, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of 65 Table of Contents compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth for the Companys products in that therapeutic category. Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and access. In addressing cost containment pressure, the Company makes a continuing effort to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for healthcare. In addition, pricing flexibility across the Companys product portfolio has encouraged growing use of its medicines and mitigated the effects of increasing cost pressures on individual medicines. Outside the United States, in difficult government budgetary environments, the Company has worked with payers to encourage allocation of scarce resources to optimize healthcare outcomes, limiting the potentially detrimental effects of government policies on sales growth and access to innovative medicines and vaccines, and to support the discovery and development of innovative products to benefit patients. The Company also is working with governments in many emerging markets in Eastern Europe, Latin America and Asia to encourage them to increase their investments in health and thereby improve their citizens access to medicines. In addition, certain countries within the European Union (EU), recognizing the economic importance of the research based pharmaceutical industry and the value of innovative medicines to society, are working with industry representatives to improve the competitive climate through a variety of means including market deregulation. The Company anticipates that the worldwide trend toward cost containment will continue, resulting in ongoing pressures on healthcare budgets. In the United States, major healthcare reform has been introduced and passed in both houses of Congress. A final revised bill which unifies both versions may be considered and adopted into law. The impact of such actions, as well as budget pressures on governments in the United States and other nations, cannot be predicted at this time. As the Company continues to successfully launch new products, contribute to healthcare debates and monitor reforms, its new products, policies and strategies should enable it to maintain a strong position in the changing economic environment. Although no one can predict the outcome of these and other legislative, regulatory and advocacy initiatives, the Company believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving healthcare environment and market forces. Access to Medicines The Company is also committed to improving access to medicines and enhancing the quality of life for people around the world. To cite just one example, The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnerships in Botswana, a partnership between the government of Botswana, the Bill Melinda Gates Foundation and The Merck Company Foundation/Merck Co., Inc., is supporting Botswanas response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and support. To further catalyze access to HIV medicines in developing countries, the Company makes no profit on the sale of its current HIV/AIDS medicines in the worlds poorest countries and those hardest hit by the pandemic, and offers its HIV/AIDS medicines at significantly reduced prices to medium income countries. In February 2007, Old Merck announced that it had again reduced the price of Stocrin in the least developed countries of the world and those hardest hit by the pandemic. Through these and other actions, the Company is working independently and with partners in both the public and private sectors to address the most critical barriers to access to medicines in the developing world. Addressing these barriers requires investments in education, training and health infrastructure and to improve capacity in developing countries achieved through increased international assistance and sustainable financing. In addition, Old Merck has committed to providing RotaTeq, its vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, to the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization eligible countries at prices at which it does not profit. Also, in 2009, Old Merck and The Wellcome Trust established the MSD Wellcome Trust Hilleman Laboratories, a joint venture in India to develop vaccines for millions of people in some of the poorest areas of the world. Government Regulation The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. Of particular importance is the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements have increased the amount of 66 Table of Contents time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. In 1997, the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act (the FDA Modernization Act) was passed and was the culmination of a comprehensive legislative reform effort designed to streamline regulatory procedures within the FDA and to improve the regulation of drugs, medical devices, and food. The legislation was principally designed to ensure the timely availability of safe and effective drugs and biologics by expediting the premarket review process for new products. A key provision of the legislation is the re authorization of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act of 1992, which permits the continued collection of user fees from prescription drug manufacturers to augment FDA resources earmarked for the review of human drug applications. This helps provide the resources necessary to ensure the prompt approval of safe and effective new drugs. In the United States, the government expanded access for senior citizens to prescription drug coverage by enacting the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, which was signed into law in December 2003. Prescription drug coverage began on January 1, 2006. This legislation supports the Companys goal of improving access to medicines by expanding insurance coverage, while preserving market based incentives for pharmaceutical innovation. At the same time, the legislation has helped control the cost of prescription drug costs through competitive pressures and by encouraging the appropriate use of medicines. As mentioned above, in the United States major healthcare reform has been introduced and passed in both houses of Congress. A final revised bill which unifies both versions may be considered and adopted into law. The U.S. Congress also considered, and may consider again, proposals to increase the governments role in pharmaceutical pricing in the Medicare program. These proposals may include removing the current legal prohibition against the Secretary of the Health and Human Services intervening in price negotiations between Medicare drug benefit program plans and pharmaceutical companies. They may also include mandating the payment of rebates for some or all of the pharmaceutical utilization in Medicare drug benefit plans. In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. For many years, the pharmaceutical industry has been under federal and state oversight with the approval process for new drugs, drug safety, advertising and promotion, drug purchasing and reimbursement programs, and formularies. The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including the introduction of new drugs to the market, in this regulatory environment. The Company continues to work with private and public payors to slow increases in healthcare spending. Also, U.S. federal and state governments have pursued methods to directly reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid, to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and disproportionate share hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria), and to provide minimum discounts of 24% off of a defined non federal average manufacturer price for purchases by certain components of the federal government such as the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense. Initiatives in some states seek rebates beyond the minimum required by Medicaid legislation, in some cases for patients beyond those who are eligible for Medicaid. Under the Federal Vaccines for Children entitlement program, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) funds and purchases recommended pediatric vaccines at a public sector price for the immunization of Medicaid eligible, uninsured, Native American and certain underinsured children. Old Merck was awarded a CDC contract in 2009 for the supply of pediatric vaccines for the Vaccines for Children program. Outside the United States, the Company encounters similar regulatory and legislative issues in most of the countries where it does business. There, too, the primary thrust of governmental inquiry and action is toward determining drug safety and effectiveness, often with mechanisms for controlling the prices of or reimbursement for prescription drugs and the profits of prescription drug companies. The EU has adopted directives concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. The Companys policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Companys business. In January 2008, the European Commission (EC) launched a sector inquiry in the pharmaceutical industry under the rules of EU competition law. As part of this inquiry, Old Mercks offices in Germany were inspected by the authorities beginning in January 2008. The preliminary report of the EC was issued on November 28, 2008, and following the public consultation period, the final report was issued in July 2009. The final report confirmed that there has been a decline in the number of novel medicines reaching the market and instances of delayed market entry of generic medicines and discussed industry practices that may have contributed 67 Table of Contents to these phenomena. While the EC has issued further inquiries with respect to the subject of the investigation, the EC has not alleged that the Company or any of its subsidiaries have engaged in any unlawful practices. The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies and is, therefore, subject to potential administrative actions. Such actions may include seizures of products and other civil and criminal sanctions. Under certain circumstances, the Company on its own may deem it advisable to initiate product recalls. The Company believes that it should be able to compete effectively within this environment. Privacy and Data Protection The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing attention to privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the Companys business, including recently enacted laws and regulations in the United States and internationally requiring notification to individuals and government authorities of security breaches involving certain categories of personal information. Operating Results Sales Worldwide sales totaled $27.4 billion for 2009, an increase of 15% compared with 2008. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 2%. The revenue increase over 2008 largely reflects incremental sales resulting from the inclusion of the post Merger results of legacy Schering Plough products such as Remicade, Temodar, Nasonex nasal spray, and PegIntron, as well as the recognition of revenue from sales of Zetia and Vytorin. Prior to the Merger, sales of Zetia and Vytorin were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is now wholly owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these products for the post Merger period are reflected in Sales. Additionally, the Company recognized sales in the post Merger period from legacy Schering Plough animal health and consumer healthcare products. Also contributing to the sales increase was growth in Januvia and Janumet, Isentress, Singulair, Varivax and Pneumovax. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D, which lost market exclusivity for substantially all formulations in the United States in February 2008 and April 2008, respectively. Revenue was also negatively affected by lower sales of Gardasil, Cosopt/Trusopt, which lost U.S. market exclusivity in October 2008, and lower revenue from the Companys relationship with AZLP. Other products experiencing declines include RotaTeq, Zocor and Primaxin. Domestic sales increased 8% compared with 2008, while foreign sales rose 24%, driven primarily by incremental sales resulting from the inclusion of the post Merger results of legacy Schering Plough products. The domestic sales increase was also driven by higher sales of Januvia, Janumet, Isentress and Singulair. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D, Cosopt/Trusopt, Gardasil and RotaTeq. Foreign sales growth reflects the strong performance of Januvia, Janumet and Isentress, partially offset by lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D, and vaccines. Foreign sales represented 47% of total sales in 2009. Worldwide sales totaled $23.9 billion for 2008, a decline of 1% compared with 2007. Foreign exchange favorably affected global sales performance by 3%. The revenue decline over 2007 largely reflects lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D. Also contributing to the decline were lower sales of Zocor, Vasotec/Vaseretic and sales of certain vaccines, including hepatitis and Haemophilus influenzae type b (HIB) vaccines. Partially offsetting these declines were higher sales of Januvia, Janumet, Isentress, Cozaar/Hyzaar, RotaTeq and Singulair. Foreign sales represented 44% of total sales for 2008. 68 Table of Contents Sales(1) of the Companys products were as follows: ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Pharmaceutical: Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology Singulair $ 4,659.7 $ 4,336.9 $ 4,266.3 Fosamax 1,099.8 1,552.7 3,049.0 Propecia 440.3 429.1 405.4 Remicade 430.7 Arcoxia 357.5 377.3 329.1 Nasonex 164.9 Clarinex 100.6 Asmanex 37.0 Cardiovascular Vytorin 440.8 84.2 84.3 Zetia 402.9 6.4 6.5 Integrilin 45.9 Diabetes and Obesity Januvia 1,922.1 1,397.1 667.5 Janumet 658.4 351.1 86.4 Infectious Disease Isentress 751.8 361.1 41.3 Primaxin 688.9 760.4 763.5 Cancidas 616.7 596.4 536.9 Invanz 292.9 265.0 190.2 Crixivan/Stocrin 206.1 275.1 310.2 PegIntron 148.7 Avelox 66.2 Rebetol 36.1 Mature Brands Cozaar/Hyzaar 3,560.7 3,557.7 3,350.1 Zocor 558.4 660.1 876.5 Vasotec/Vaseretic 310.8 356.7 494.6 Proscar 290.9 323.5 411.0 Claritin Rx 71.1 Proventil 26.2 Neurosciences and Ophthalmology Maxalt 574.5 529.2 467.3 Cosopt/Trusopt 503.5 781.2 786.8 Remeron 38.5 Subutex/Suboxone 36.3 Oncology Emend 313.1 259.7 201.7 Temodar 188.1 Caelyx 46.5 Intron A 38.4 Vaccines(2) ProQuad/M M R II/Varivax 1,368.5 1,268.5 1,347.1 Gardasil 1,118.4 1,402.8 1,480.6 RotaTeq 521.9 664.5 524.7 Pneumovax 345.6 249.3 233.2 Zostavax 277.4 312.4 236.0 Womens Health and Endocrine Follistim/Puregon 96.5 NuvaRing 88.3 Other Pharmaceutical(3) 1,294.9 922.9 1,136.6 25,236.5 22,081.3 22,282.8 Other segment revenues (4) 2,114.0 1,694.1 1,848.1 Total segment revenues 27,350.5 23,775.4 24,130.9 Other (5) 77.8 74.9 66.8 $ 27,428.3 $ 23,850.3 $ 24,197.7 (1) Sales of legacy Schering Plough products only reflect results for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Sales of MSP Partnership products Zetia and Vytorin represent sales for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Prior to the Merger, sales of Zetia and Vytorin were primarily recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. Sales of Zetia and Vytorin in 2008 and 2007 reflect Old Mercks sales of these products in Latin America which was not part of the MSP Partnership. (2) These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Companys joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the results of which are reflected in Equity income from affiliates. These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD. (3) Other pharmaceutical primarily includes sales of other human pharmaceutical products, including products within the franchises not listed separately. (4) Reflects other non reportable segments, including animal health and consumer health care, and revenue from the Companys relationship with AZLP primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. Revenue from AZLP was $1.4 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (5) Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, third party manufacturing sales, sales related to divested products or businesses and other supply sales not included in segment results. 69 Table of Contents Pharmaceutical Segment Revenues Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology Worldwide sales of Singulair, a leukotriene receptor antagonist for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, grew 7% reaching $4.7 billion in 2009 primarily driven by favorable pricing and strong performance in Japan and Asia Pacific. Global sales of Singulair rose 2% to $4.3 billion in 2008, reflecting higher sales outside the United States, including volume growth in Europe and Japan and the positive effect of foreign exchange, partially offset by lower sales domestically. Singulair continues to be the number one prescribed product in the U.S. respiratory market. U.S. sales of Singulair were $3.0 billion in 2009. The patent that provides U.S. marketing exclusivity for Singulair expires in August 2012. The Company expects that within the two years following patent expiration, it will lose substantially all U.S. sales of Singulair, with most of those declines coming in the first full year following patent expiration. In addition, the patent for Singulair will expire in a number of major European markets in August 2012 and the Company expects sales of Singulair in those markets will decline significantly thereafter. Worldwide sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D (marketed as Fosavance throughout the EU and as Fosamac in Japan), for the treatment and, in the case of Fosamax, prevention of osteoporosis, decreased 29% in 2009 to $1.1 billion and declined 49% in 2008 to $1.6 billion. Since substantially all formulations of these medicines have lost U.S. market exclusivity, the Company is experiencing significant declines in sales in the United States within the Fosamax product franchise and the Company expects such declines to continue. International sales of Remicade, a treatment for inflammatory diseases, were $430.7 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Remicade is marketed by the Company outside of the United States (except in Japan and certain Asian markets). Products that compete with Remicade have been launched over the past several years. In October 2009, the EC approved Simponi (golimumab), a once monthly subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases. The Company has launched Simponi in Canada, Germany and Denmark; launches in other international markets are ongoing or planned. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of arbitration proceedings involving Remicade/Simponi. Global sales of Nasonex nasal spray, an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, were $164.9 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Global sales of Clarinex (marketed as Aerius in many countries outside the United States), a non drowsy antihistamine, were $100.6 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Other products included in the Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology franchise include among others, Propecia, a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss; Arcoxia, for the treatment of arthritis and pain; and Asmanex, an orally inhaled steroid for asthma. Cardiovascular Sales of Zetia, a cholesterol absorption inhibitor, and Vytorin, a combination product containing the active ingredients of both Zetia and Zocor were $402.9 million and $440.8 million respectively, for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Prior to the Merger, sales of these products were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is now wholly owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these products are now reflected in Sales. For a discussion of the performance of Zetia and Vytorin prior to the closing of the Merger (see Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information below). Global sales of Integrilin Injection, a legacy Schering Plough product for the treatment of patients with acute coronary syndrome, which is sold by the Company in the United States and Canada, were $45.9 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. In June 2009, launches of Tredaptive began in international markets and as of December 31, 2009, Merck had launched Tredaptive in 20 countries including most major European markets. Tredaptive is a lipid modifying therapy for patients with mixed dyslipidemia and primary hypercholesterolemia. Tredaptive, also known by the trademark of Cordaptive in certain countries, is now approved in 45 countries outside the United States. In the United States, it remains investigational. 70 Table of Contents Diabetes and Obesity Global sales of Januvia, Mercks dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP 4) inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, were $1.9 billion in 2009, $1.4 billion in 2008 and $667.5 million in 2007. Januvia was approved by the FDA in October 2006 and by the EC in March 2007. DPP 4 inhibitors represent a class of prescription medications that improve blood sugar control in patients with type 2 diabetes by enhancing a natural body system called the incretin system, which helps to regulate glucose by affecting the beta cells and alpha cells in the pancreas. During 2009, Januvia received regulatory approval in Japan and China. In 2009, the EC approved the restricted first line use of Januvia for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. With this approval, sitagliptin is indicated to improve glycemic control when diet and exercise alone do not provide adequate glycemic control and when metformin is inappropriate due to contraindications or intolerance. Sitagliptin is now the only diabetes treatment in the DPP 4 inhibitor class to have a restricted first line indication in the EU. Worldwide sales of Janumet, Mercks oral antihyperglycemic agent that combines sitagliptin (Mercks DPP 4 inhibitor, Januvia) with metformin in a single tablet to target all three key defects of type 2 diabetes, were $658.4 million in 2009 compared with $351.1 million in 2008 and $86.4 million in 2007. Janumet was initially approved as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve blood sugar control in adult patients with type 2 diabetes who are not adequately controlled on metformin or sitagliptin alone, or in patients already being treated with the combination of sitagliptin and metformin. In February 2008, FDA approval to market Janumet as an initial treatment for type 2 diabetes was received. In July 2008, Janumet was approved for marketing in the EU, Iceland and Norway. In 2009, the EC approved the use of Januvia tablets and Janumet tablets as add on to insulin for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Sitagliptin is now the only diabetes treatment in the DPP 4 inhibitor class to have an indication for use as add on to insulin in the EU. In the United States, a supplemental New Drug Application concerning the use of Januvia and Janumet in combination with insulin has been accepted by the FDA and is currently under review. Infectious Disease Worldwide sales of Isentress, an antiretroviral therapy for the treatment of HIV infection, were $751.8 million in 2009, $361.1 million in 2008 and $41.3 million in 2007. Sales growth in 2009 reflects positive performance in the United States, as well as internationally due in part to strong 2008 launches in certain countries, including France, Spain and Italy. Isentress is now available in all major international markets. In October 2007, the FDA granted Isentress accelerated approval for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV 1 infection in treatment experienced adult patients who have evidence of viral replication and HIV 1 strains resistant to multiple antiretroviral agents. Isentress was the first medicine to be approved in the class of antiretroviral drugs called integrase inhibitors. Isentress works by inhibiting the insertion of HIV DNA into human DNA by the integrase enzyme. Inhibiting integrase from performing this essential function limits the ability of the virus to replicate and infect new cells. In January 2009, the FDA granted traditional approval to Isentress following review of the 48 week data from the BENCHMRK 1 2 clinical trials. In July 2009, the FDA approved an expanded indication for Isentress to include use in the treatment of adult patients starting HIV 1 therapy for the first time (treatment nave), as well as in treatment experienced adult patients. In September 2009, Isentress was granted an expanded license from the EC for use in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of HIV 1 infection in adult patients, including treatment nave adult patients, as well as treatment experienced adult patients. The Commissions decision is applicable to the 27 countries that are members of the EU, as well as Iceland and Norway. Additionally, in October 2009, Merck announced that Isentress is now indicated for use in treatment nave adults in Canada. Sales of Primaxin, an anti bacterial product, declined 9% in 2009 to $688.9 million as compared with 2008. These results reflect competitive pressures and also reflect supply constraints. Patents on Primaxin have expired worldwide and multiple generics have been approved in Europe. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing a decline in sales of this product and the Company expects the decline to continue. Sales of Primaxin were essentially flat in 2008 as compared with 2007. 71 Table of Contents Worldwide sales of PegIntron for treating chronic hepatitis C were $148.7 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Other products contained in the Infectious Diseases franchise include among others, Cancidas, an anti fungal product; Crixivan and Stocrin, antiretroviral therapies for the treatment of HIV infection; Avelox, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic for the treatment of certain respiratory and skin infections; and Invanz for the treatment of certain infections. Mature Brands Mercks mature brands are human health pharmaceutical products that are approaching the expiration of their marketing exclusivity or are no longer protected by patents in developed markets, but continue to be a core part of the Companys offering in other markets around the world. Global sales of Cozaar, and its companion agent Hyzaar (a combination of Cozaar and hydrochlorothiazide), for the treatment of hypertension, were $3.6 billion in 2009 which are comparable to sales in 2008 reflecting the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange, offset by strong performance of both products in the United States and of Hyzaar in Japan (marketed as Preminent). Global sales of Cozaar and Hyzaar grew 6% to $3.6 billion in 2008 driven by strong performance of Hyzaar in Japan, as well as by the positive effect of foreign exchange. Cozaar and Hyzaar are among the leading medicines in the angiotensin receptor blocker class. The patents that provide U.S. market exclusivity for Cozaar and Hyzaar expire in April 2010. In addition, the patent for Cozaar will expire in a number of major European markets in March 2010. Hyzaar lost patent protection in a number of major European markets in February 2010. The Company anticipates a significant decline in future Cozaar/Hyzaar sales since there are multiple sources of generics expected for these medicines at the time of patent expiry. Worldwide sales of Zocor, a statin for modifying cholesterol, declined 15% in 2009 and 25% in 2008. Zocor lost U.S. market exclusivity in June 2006 and has also lost market exclusivity in all major international markets. Other products contained in the Mature Brands franchise include among others, prescription Claritin for the treatment of seasonal outdoor allergies and year round indoor allergies; Vasotec/Vaseretic for hypertension and or heart failure; and Proscar, a urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement. Neurosciences and Ophthalmology Sales of Cosopt and Trusopt, Mercks largest selling ophthalmic products, declined 36% to $503.5 million in 2009 as compared with 2008. The patent that provided U.S. market exclusivity for Cosopt and Trusopt expired in October 2008. Cosopt has also lost market exclusivity in a number of major European markets. Trusopt will lose market exclusivity in a number of major European markets in April 2012 and the Company expects sales in those markets to decline significantly thereafter. Sales of Cosopt and Trusopt declined 1% in 2008 as compared with 2007. Saphris (asenapine), Mercks sublingual tablet for acute treatment of schizophrenia in adults and acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, was approved by the FDA in August 2009 and a full launch is underway. The Company has filed two supplemental New Drug Applications with the FDA for Saphris as an adjunct to therapy in patients with mania and for maintenance therapy in patients with schizophrenia. The application for asenapine is also under review in the EU. The Companys muscle relaxant reversal drug, Bridion, is currently approved in 44 countries, including Japan, and has been launched in 28 countries around the world. During 2009, Saflutan (tafluprost) was launched in a number of countries including the United Kingdom and Spain, and additional launches in other countries are expected over the next year, pending regulatory approvals. Saflutan is a preservative free, synthetic analogue of the prostaglandin F2 for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. Tafluprost is in Phase III development in the United States. In April 2009, Old Merck and Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Santen) announced a worldwide licensing agreement for tafluprost (see Research and Development Update below). 72 Table of Contents Also, during 2009, Old Merck divested its U.S. marketing rights to the Timoptic product franchise to Aton Pharma, Inc. The Timoptic product franchise includes ophthalmic products to treat elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open angle glaucoma. Oncology Sales of Temodar, a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, were $188.1 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Temodar lost patent exclusivity in the EU in 2009. In January 2010, the Company announced that the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware ruled against the Company in a patent infringement suit against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). The decision is being appealed. The effects of the ruling are uncertain while this matter is under appeal. Other products in the Oncology franchise include Emend for the treatment of chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting; and Caelyx for the treatment of ovarian cancer, metastatic breast cancer and Kaposis sarcoma. Marketing rights for Caelyx return to Johnson Johnson as of December 31, 2010. Vaccines The following discussion of vaccines does not include sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through Sanofi Pasteur MSD (SPMSD), the Companys joint venture with Sanofi Pasteur, the results of which are included in Equity income from affiliates (see Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information below). Supply sales to SPMSD, however, are included. Worldwide sales of Gardasil, recorded by Merck, declined 20% to $1.1 billion in 2009 and declined 5% to $1.4 billion in 2008. Gardasil, the worlds top selling HPV vaccine, is indicated for girls and women 9 through 26 years of age for the prevention of cervical, vulvar and vaginal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions, and genital warts caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18. Gardasil is also approved in the United States for use in boys and men ages 9 through 26 years of age for the prevention of genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11. Sales performance in 2009 was driven largely by declines in the United States which continue to be affected by the saturation of the 13 to 18 year old female cohort due to rapid early uptake, and ongoing challenges to vaccinating the 19 to 26 year old female age group. Sales in 2009 include $51 million of revenue as a result of government purchases for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Preventions (CDC) Strategic National Stockpile. In 2008, sales performance reflects lower sales domestically, partially offset by growth outside the United States. Sales in 2007 include initial purchases by many states through the CDC Vaccines for Children program. The Company is a party to certain third party license agreements with respect to Gardasil (including a cross license and settlement agreement with GlaxoSmithKline). As a result of these agreements, the Company pays royalties on worldwide Gardasil sales of 21% to 27% which vary by country and are included in Materials and production costs. In October 2009, the FDA approved Gardasil for use in boys and men, making Gardasil the only HPV vaccine approved for use in males. Later in October 2009, Merck announced that the CDCs Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) supports the permissive use of Gardasil for boys and men ages 9 to 26, which means that Gardasil may be given to males ages 9 to 26 to reduce the likelihood of acquiring genital warts. The ACIP also voted to recommend that funding be provided for the use of Gardasil in males through the Vaccines for Children program. In January 2009, the FDA issued a second complete response letter regarding the supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) for the use of Gardasil in women ages 27 through 45. The FDA completed its review of the response that Old Merck provided in July 2008 to the FDAs first complete response letter issued in June 2008 and recommended that Old Merck submit additional data when the 48 month study has been completed. The initial sBLA included data collected through an average of 24 months from enrollment into the study, which is when the number of pre specified endpoints had been met. Merck provided a response to the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2009. This was a Class 2 Response which generally carries a 6 month review time from the point that the FDA has accepted the file. The complete response letter does not affect current indications for Gardasil in females ages 9 through 26. Global sales of RotaTeq, a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, recorded by Merck declined 21% in 2009 to $521.9 million reflecting moderate impact from competition in the 73 Table of Contents United States, with a greater impact in the public sector. Worldwide sales of RotaTeq grew 27% in 2008 to $664.5 million primarily driven by the continued uptake in the United States and successful launches around the world. Sales in 2008 included purchases of $54 million to support the CDC Strategic National Stockpile. Old Merck has received regulatory approvals in the United States and certain other markets to increase its manufacturing capacity for the Companys varicella zoster virus (VZV) containing vaccines. The Company is manufacturing bulk varicella and is producing doses of Varivax and Zostavax. ProQuad, a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella, one of the VZV containing vaccines, is currently not available for ordering; however, orders have been transitioned, as appropriate, to M M R II and Varivax. Total sales as recorded by Merck for ProQuad were $9.5 million in 2008 and $264.4 million in 2007. Merck anticipates that some ProQuad will be available in the U.S. market in 2010. Mercks sales of Varivax, a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella), were $1.0 billion in 2009, $924.6 million in 2008 and $854.9 million in 2007. Varivax is the only vaccine available in the United States to help protect against chickenpox due to the unavailability of ProQuad. Sales for 2009 reflect $64 million in revenue as a result of government purchases for the CDCs Strategic National Stockpile. In 2007, Varivax benefited from the ACIPs June 2006 second dose recommendation. Mercks sales of M M R II, a vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps and rubella, were $331.4 million in 2009, $334.4 million in 2008 and $227.8 million in 2007. Sales of Varivax and M M R II were affected by the unavailability of ProQuad. Combined sales of ProQuad, M M R II and Varivax increased 8% in 2009 and declined 6% in 2008. Sales of Zostavax, a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster), recorded by Merck were $277.4 million in 2009, $312.4 million in 2008 and $236.0 million in 2007. Sales in all of these years were affected by supply issues. While normal shipping schedules for Zostavax in the United States were resumed in June 2009 and the Company anticipates that Zostavax will be available in 2010 in the United States, customers will likely experience back orders of Zostavax throughout the year. International launches of Zostavax will be delayed until 2011. The vaccine is the first and only medical option for the prevention of shingles. Sales of Pneumovax, a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease, were $345.6 million for 2009 compared with $249.3 million for 2008 and $233.2 million for 2007. The increase in 2009 is due to favorable pricing in the United States and higher demand associated with the flu pandemic. In September 2009, Old Merck announced that it had entered into an exclusive agreement with CSL Biotherapies (CSL), a subsidiary of CSL Limited, to market and distribute Afluria, CSLs seasonal influenza (flu) vaccine, in the United States, for the 2010/2011 2015/2016 flu seasons. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will assume responsibility for all aspects of commercialization of Afluria in the United States. CSL will supply Afluria to Merck and will retain responsibility for marketing the vaccine outside the United States. Afluria is indicated for the active immunization of persons age 6 months and older against influenza disease caused by influenza virus subtypes A and type B present in the vaccine. Efforts to resolve manufacturing issues related to HIB containing vaccines, PedvaxHIB and Comvax have been ongoing since December 2007. In January 2010, PedvaxHIB became fully available in the United States for routine vaccination as well as for booster dose catch up vaccination. The timing of availability outside the United States is dependent upon local regulatory requirements. The market return of Comvax will be dependent upon the supply situation for both the Companys HIB containing vaccine and hepatitis B vaccine. The pediatric/adolescent formulation of Vaqta, a vaccine against hepatitis A, is currently available. Because the Company is continuing to prioritize the pediatric/adolescent formulation, Merck anticipates the adult formulation will not be available in 2010. Outside of the United States, the supply of Vaqta is limited and availability will vary by region. The pediatric/adolescent formulation of Recombivax HB, a vaccine against hepatitis B, became available in December 2009. The Company does not anticipate availability of the adult formulation in the first half of 2010. The Company anticipates the dialysis formulation will become available before the end of 2010. 74 Table of Contents Womens Health Endocrine Global sales of Follistim/Puregon, a fertility treatment, were $96.5 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Follistim/Puregon lost market exclusivity in the EU in August 2009. Worldwide sales of NuvaRing, a contraceptive product, were $88.3 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. In January 2010, Merck received EC approval of Elonva. Elonva is indicated for controlled ovarian stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the development of multiple follicles in women participating in an assisted reproductive technology program. With the EC approval, Merck receives marketing authorization for Elonva with unified labeling valid in all European Union Member States. Elonva is the first in the class of sustained follicle stimulant. Due to its ability to initiate and sustain multiple follicular growth for an entire week, a single subcutaneous injection of the recommended dose of Elonva may replace the first seven injections of any daily recombinant follicle stimulating hormone (rFSH) preparation in a controlled ovarian stimulation treatment cycle. Other In January 2010, the Company, AZLP and Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (which acquired IVAX Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) entered into a settlement agreement to resolve patent litigation with respect to esomeprazole (Nexium) which provides that Teva/IVAX will not bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States until May 27, 2014. During 2008, Old Merck and AZLP entered into a similar agreement with Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (Ranbaxy) which provides that Ranbaxy will not bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States until May 27, 2014. The Company faces other challenges with respect to outstanding patent infringement matters for esomeprazole (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). Animal Health Global sales of Animal Health products, which include livestock, poultry, companion animal and aquaculture products that prevent and treat animal diseases, totaled $494.2 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Animal Health sales are affected by intense competition and the frequent introduction of generic products. Consumer Health Care Global sales of Consumer Health Care products, which include OTC, foot care and sun care products, were $149.2 million for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Consumer Health Care product sales are affected by competition, frequent competitive product introductions and consumer spending patterns. Consumer Health Care products include Dr. Scholls foot care products, Claritin non drowsy antihistamines; MiraLAX, a treatment for occasional constipation; and Coppertone sun care products. In December 2009, Merck announced that the FDA approved Zegerid OTC for over the counter treatment of frequent heartburn. Under an agreement with Santarus, Inc. a specialty pharmaceutical company that developed and currently markets prescription Zegerid, Schering Plough Healthcare Products, the consumer healthcare division of Merck, is responsible for the development, manufacturing and commercialization of Zegerid OTC products for heartburn related indications in the United States and Canada. 75 Table of Contents Costs Expenses and Other ($ in millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Materials and production $ 9,018.9 62 % $ 5,582.5 9 % $ 6,140.7 Marketing and administrative 8,543.2 16 % 7,377.0 2 % 7,556.7 Research and development 5,845.0 22 % 4,805.3 2 % 4,882.8 Restructuring costs 1,633.9 58 % 1,032.5 * 327.1 Equity income from affiliates (2,235.0 ) 13 % (2,560.6 ) 14 % (2,976.5 ) U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge * 4,850.0 Other (income) expense, net (10,669.5 ) * (2,318.1 ) * (75.2 ) $ 12,136.5 13 % $ 13,918.6 33 % $ 20,705.6 * 100% or greater. Materials and Production In 2009, materials and production costs were $9.0 billion compared with $5.6 billion in 2008. Materials and production costs include expenses related to the sale of legacy Schering Plough products in the post Merger period. Additionally, these costs were unfavorably affected by $1.5 billion of amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to Schering Ploughs inventories and $0.8 billion of expense for the amortization of intangible assets recognized in the Merger. Also included in materials and production costs in 2009 were $115.2 million of costs associated with restructuring activities, substantially all of which represents accelerated depreciation associated with the planned sale or closure of manufacturing facilities. (See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.) In 2008, materials and production costs declined 9% compared with a 1% decline in sales primarily reflecting lower restructuring costs. Included in materials and production costs in 2008 were $123.2 million of restructuring costs comprised of $88.7 million of accelerated depreciation and $34.5 million of other costs, primarily asset write offs. This compares with restructuring costs of $483.1 million in 2007 representing $460.6 million of accelerated depreciation and $22.5 million of asset impairments. Gross margin was 67.1% in 2009 compared with 76.6% in 2008 and 74.6% in 2007. The additional amortization expense as a result of the Merger in 2009 and restructuring charges reflected in all periods as noted above had an unfavorable impact of 8.8 percentage points in 2009, 0.5 percentage points in 2008 and 2.0 percentage points in 2007. Gross margin in 2008 reflects changes in product mix, including the decline in Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D sales as a result of the loss of U.S. market exclusivity in 2008, and manufacturing efficiencies. Gross margin in 2007 reflects a slight unfavorable impact from changes in product mix and the positive impact of manufacturing efficiencies. Marketing and Administrative Marketing and administrative expenses increased 16% in 2009 driven largely by the inclusion of expenses related to Schering Plough activities in the post Merger period. Additionally, $370.7 million of merger related costs were recognized in 2009 consisting of transaction costs directly related to the Merger (including advisory and legal fees) and integration costs. These increases were partially offset by initiatives to reduce the cost base, which were in place prior to the consummation of the Merger. Separation costs associated with sales force reductions have been incurred and are reflected in Restructuring costs as discussed below. In addition, marketing and administrative expenses benefited from foreign exchange. Marketing and administrative expenses in 2009 and 2008 included $75 million and $62 million, respectively, of additional reserves solely for future Vioxx legal defense costs. Expenses in both 2009 and 2008 also reflect $40 million of additional reserves solely for future legal defense costs for Fosamax litigation. (See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on Vioxx and Fosamax litigation related matters). Marketing and administrative expenses declined 2% in 2008 as compared with 2007. Included in marketing and administrative expenses in 2008 and 2007 were $62 million and $280 million, respectively, of additional reserves solely for future Vioxx legal defense costs. Also included in these costs in 2008 was $40 million of additional reserves solely for future legal defense costs for Fosamax litigation. In addition, marketing and 76 Table of Contents administrative expenses for 2007 included a $455 million gain from an insurance arbitration award related to Vioxx product liability litigation coverage. In addition to lower expenses for future legal defense costs, the decline in marketing and administrative expenses in 2008 as compared with 2007 also reflects efforts to reduce the cost base. Research and Development Research and development expenses increased 22% in 2009 as compared with 2008, due in part to the incremental expenditures associated with the inclusion of Schering Ploughs results in the post Merger period. Additionally, expenses in 2009 reflect $231.6 million of costs associated with restructuring activities, including the closure or sale of research facilities in connection with the 2008 Restructuring Program, substantially all of which represent accelerated depreciation. (See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.) In addition, research and development expenses in 2009 as compared with 2008 reflect an increase in development spending in support of the continued advancement of the research pipeline, including investments in late stage clinical trials. Research and development expenses declined 2% in 2008 compared with 2007. Expenses in 2008 reflect $128.4 million of costs related to restructuring activities. Expenses in 2007 reflect $325.1 million of in process research and development expense related to the NovaCardia acquisition. Research and development expenses in 2008 compared with 2007 reflect an increase in development spending in support of the continued advancement of the research pipeline. Share Based Compensation Total pretax share based compensation expense was $415.5 million in 2009, $348.0 million in 2008 and $330.2 million in 2007. At December 31, 2009, there was $521.8 million of total pretax unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested stock option, restricted stock unit and performance share unit awards which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.5 years. For segment reporting, share based compensation costs are unallocated expenses. Restructuring Costs Restructuring costs were $1.6 billion, $1.0 billion and $327.1 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Of the restructuring costs recorded in 2009, $1.4 billion related to the Merger Restructuring Program, $178.2 million related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and $38.7 million related to the legacy Schering Plough Productivity Transformation Program. Of the restructuring costs recorded in 2008, $735.5 million related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and the remainder were associated with the 2005 Restructuring Program. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, separation costs of $1.4 billion, $957.3 million and $251.4 million, respectively, were incurred associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as estimated expenses under existing severance programs for headcount reductions that were probable and could be reasonably estimated. Merck eliminated 3,525 positions in 2009 (most of which related to the 2008 Restructuring Program), 5,800 positions in 2008 (of which approximately 1,750 related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and 4,050 related to the 2005 Restructuring Program) and 2,400 positions in 2007. These position eliminations are comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. Also included in restructuring costs are curtailment, settlement and termination charges on pension and other postretirement benefit plans and shutdown costs. For segment reporting, restructuring costs are unallocated expenses. Additional costs associated with the Companys restructuring activities are included in Materials and production costs and Research and development expenses. Equity Income from Affiliates Equity income from affiliates reflects the performance of the Companys joint ventures and partnerships. The decline in 2009 was primarily driven by lower equity income from the MSP Partnership, which is now wholly owned by the Company as a result of the Merger and therefore its results are reflected in the consolidated results of the Company beginning on the date of the Merger, and decreased equity income from Merial due to the sale of Old Mercks interest in September 2009, partially offset by higher partnership returns from AZLP. In 2008, the decline in equity income from affiliates reflects decreased equity income from the MSP Partnership and lower partnership returns from AZLP, partially offset by higher equity income from Merial and SPMSD. The decrease in equity income from the MSP Partnership in 2008 was primarily the result of lower revenues of Vytorin and Zetia following the announcements of the ENHANCE and SEAS clinical trial results. The lower partnership returns from AZLP in 77 Table of Contents 2008 were primarily attributable to the first quarter 2008 partial redemption of Old Mercks interest in certain AZLP product rights, which resulted in a reduction of the priority return and the variable returns which were based, in part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products. The higher equity income from Merial in 2008 primarily reflects higher sales of biological products. The increase in equity income from SPMSD in 2008 was largely attributable to higher sales of Gardasil in joint venture territories outside of the United States. (See Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information below.) U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement Charge On November 9, 2007, Old Merck entered into an agreement (the Settlement Agreement) with the law firms that comprise the executive committee of the Plaintiffs Steering Committee of the federal multidistrict Vioxx litigation as well as representatives of plaintiffs counsel in state coordinated proceedings to resolve state and federal myocardial infarction (MI) and ischemic stroke (IS) claims filed as of that date against Old Merck in the United States. Under the Settlement Agreement, Old Merck paid an aggregate fixed amount of $4.85 billion into two funds for qualifying claims consisting of $4.0 billion for qualifying MI claims and $850 million for qualifying IS claims that entered into the resolution process (Settlement Program), of which $750 million was paid into such funds in 2008 and the remainder in 2009. As a consequence of the Settlement Agreement, a pretax charge of $4.85 billion was recorded in 2007. (See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). Other (Income) Expense, Net Included in other (income) expense, net in 2009 was a $7.5 billion gain related to Mercks previously held interest in the MSP Partnership. As a result of the Merger, the Company obtained a controlling interest in the MSP Partnership and it is now owned 100% by the Company. Previously, the Company had a noncontrolling interest. A business combination in which an acquirer holds a noncontrolling equity investment in the acquiree immediately before obtaining control of that acquiree is referred to as a step acquisition. The acquirer is required to remeasure its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition date fair value and recognize the resulting gain or loss in earnings. Additionally during 2009, a $3.2 billion gain was recognized on the sale of Old Mercks interest in Merial (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements). Also included in other (income) expense, net in 2009 was $231 million of investment portfolio recognized net gains, and an $80 million charge related to the settlement of the Vioxx third party payor litigation in the United States (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). Included in other (income) expense, net in 2008 was an aggregate gain on distribution from AZLP of $2.2 billion (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements), a gain of $249 million related to the sale of the remaining worldwide rights to Aggrastat, a $300 million expense for a contribution to the Merck Company Foundation, $117 million of investment portfolio recognized net losses and a $58 million charge related to the resolution of an investigation into whether Old Merck violated state consumer protection laws with respect to the sales and marketing of Vioxx. Merck experienced a decline in interest income in 2009 as compared with 2008 primarily as a result of lower interest rates and a change in the investment portfolio mix toward cash and shorter dated securities in anticipation of the Merger. Merck recognized higher interest expense in 2009 largely due to $174 million of commitment fees and incremental interest expense related to the financing of the Merger. The change in other (income) expense, net during 2008 as compared with 2007 was primarily due to an aggregate gain in 2008 from AZLP of $2.2 billion, the impact of a $671 million charge in 2007 related to the resolution of certain civil governmental investigations, and a 2008 gain of $249 million related to the sale of the remaining worldwide rights to Aggrastat, partially offset by a $300 million expense in 2008 for a contribution to the Merck Company Foundation, an increase in exchange losses of $202 million, higher recognized losses of $153 million, net, in the investment portfolio and a $58 million charge related to the resolution of an investigation into whether Old Merck violated consumer protection laws with respect to the sales and marketing of Vioxx. The fluctuation in exchange losses (gains) in 2008 from 2007 was primarily due to the higher cost of foreign currency contracts due to lower U.S. interest rates and unfavorable impacts of period to period changes in foreign currency exchange rates on net long or net short foreign currency positions, considering both net monetary assets and related foreign currency contracts. 78 Table of Contents Segment Profits ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Pharmaceutical segment profits $ 15,714.6 $ 14,110.3 $ 14,558.7 Other non reportable segment profits 1,735.1 1,691.0 2,027.6 Other (2,157.9 ) (5,869.6 ) (13,094.2 ) Income before income taxes $ 15,291.8 $ 9,931.7 $ 3,492.1 Segment profits are comprised of segment revenues less certain elements of materials and production costs and operating expenses, including components of equity income (loss) from affiliates and depreciation and amortization expenses. For internal management reporting presented to the chief operating decision maker, Merck does not allocate production costs, other than standard costs, research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses, as well as the cost of financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by these divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment profits. Also excluded from the determination of segment profits are the gain related to the MSP Partnership, the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, the gain on the disposition of Merial, the gain on distribution from AZLP, restructuring costs the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge, taxes paid at the joint venture level and a portion of equity income. Additionally, segment profits do not reflect other expenses from corporate and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income (expense). These unallocated items are reflected in Other in the above table. Also included in other are miscellaneous corporate profits, operating profits related to divested products or businesses, other supply sales and adjustments to eliminate the effect of double counting certain items of income and expense. Pharmaceutical segment profits rose 11% in 2009 largely driven by the inclusion of legacy Schering Plough results in the post Merger period. Pharmaceutical segment profits decreased 3% in 2008 largely driven by lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D, Zocor and decreased equity income from the MSP Partnership. Taxes on Income The effective income tax rate was 14.8% in 2009, 20.1% in 2008 and 2.7% in 2007. The 2009 effective tax rate reflects the favorable impacts of increased income in lower tax jurisdictions, which includes the favorable impact of the MSP Partnership gain, and higher expenses in certain jurisdictions including the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments and restructuring costs. The effective income tax rate in 2009 also benefited from 2009 tax settlements, including the previously announced settlement with the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA.) These favorable impacts were partially offset by the unfavorable effect of the gain on the sale of Old Mercks interest in Merial being taxable in the United States at a combined federal and state tax rate of approximately 38.0%. The net favorable impact of the above items on the 2009 effective tax rate was approximately 7 percentage points. The 2008 effective tax rate reflects a net favorable impact as compared with the statutory rate of approximately 3 percentage points, which includes favorable impacts relating to tax settlements that resulted in a reduction of the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $200 million, the realization of foreign tax credits and the favorable tax impact of foreign exchange rate changes during the fourth quarter, particularly the strengthening of the Japanese yen against the US dollar, partially offset by an unfavorable impact resulting from the AZLP gain being fully taxable in the United States at a combined federal and state tax rate of approximately 36.3%. In the first quarter of 2008, Old Merck decided to distribute certain prior years foreign earnings to the United States which will result in a utilization of foreign tax credits. These foreign tax credits arose as a result of tax payments made outside of the United States in prior years that became realizable in the first quarter based on a change in Old Mercks decision to distribute these foreign earnings. The 2007 effective tax rate reflects the reduction of domestic pretax income primarily resulting from the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge and the related change in mix of domestic and foreign pretax income. Net Income and Earnings per Common Share Net income available to common shareholders was $12.9 billion in 2009 compared with $7.8 billion in 2008 and $3.3 billion in 2007. Earnings per common share assuming dilution available to common shareholders (EPS) were $5.65 in 2009 compared with $3.63 in 2008 and $1.49 in 2007. The increases in net income and earnings per share in 2009 were largely driven by the gain associated with the MSP Partnership recognized in conjunction with the Merger, as well as the gain recorded on the sale of Old Mercks interest in Merial, partially offset by incremental charges associated with the Merger, including the amortization of intangible assets and 79 Table of Contents inventory step up and the recognition of merger related costs. EPS in 2009 was also affected by the dilutive impact of shares issued in the Merger. The increases in net income and earnings per share in 2008 as compared with 2007 are primarily attributable to the gain on distribution from AZLP in 2008 and the impacts in 2007 of the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement and civil governmental investigations charges. In addition, the increases reflect the positive impact of certain tax items, lower in process research and development costs and lower expenses for legal defense costs, partially offset by higher restructuring costs and lower equity earnings in 2008, as well as the recognition in 2007 of an insurance arbitration gain. Non GAAP Income and Non GAAP EPS Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS are alternative views of the Companys performance used by management that Merck is providing because management believes this information enhances investors understanding of the Companys results. Non GAAP income and non GAAP earnings per share exclude certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact that they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. The excluded items are certain purchase accounting items related to the Merger, restructuring activities, merger related costs, and certain other items. These excluded items are significant components in understanding and assessing financial performance. Therefore, the information on non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, net income and earnings per share prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Additionally, since non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS are not measures determined in accordance with GAAP, they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS are important internal measures for the Company. Senior management receives a monthly analysis of operating results that includes non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS and the performance of the Company is measured on this basis along with other performance metrics. Senior managements annual compensation is derived in part using non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS. 80 Table of Contents A reconciliation between GAAP financial measures and non GAAP financial measures is as follows: ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Pretax income as reported under GAAP $ 15,292 $ 9,932 $ 3,492 Increase (decrease) for excluded items: Purchase accounting 2,286 Restructuring activities 1,981 1,284 810 Merger related costs 544 Other items: Gain related to the MSP Partnership (7,530 ) Gain on Merial (3,163 ) Gain on distribution from AZLP (2,223 ) U.S. Vioxx settlement agreement charge 4,850 Civil governmental investigations charge 671 Insurance arbitration gain (455 ) 9,410 8,993 9,368 Taxes on income as reported under GAAP 2,268 1,999 95 Tax (benefit) expense on excluded items (390 ) (472 ) 2,134 Non GAAP taxes on income 1,878 1,527 2,229 Non GAAP net income $ 7,532 $ 7,466 $ 7,139 2009 2008 2007 EPS assuming dilution as reported under GAAP $ 5.65 $ 3.63 $ 1.49 EPS impact of excluded items (2.40 ) (0.21 ) 1.71 Non GAAP EPS assuming dilution $ 3.25 $ 3.42 $ 3.20 Purchase Accounting Adjustments Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude certain amounts recorded in connection with the Merger (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). These amounts include the amortization of intangible assets and inventory step up. Restructuring Activities Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude restructuring activities, including restructuring activities related to the Merger (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). These amounts include employee separation costs and accelerated depreciation associated with facilities to be sold or closed. The Company has undertaken restructurings of different types during the covered periods and therefore these charges should not to be considered non recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS because it believes it is helpful for understanding the performance of the continuing business. Merger Related Costs Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude transaction costs associated directly with the Merger, as well as integration costs. These costs are excluded because management believes that these costs are unique to the Merger transaction and are not representative of ongoing normal business activities. Integration costs associated with the Merger will occur over several years, however, the impacts within each year will vary as the integration progresses. Certain Other Items Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude certain other items. These items represent substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the 81 Table of Contents qualitative aspect of their unusual nature and generally represent items that, either as a result of their nature or magnitude, management would not anticipate that they would occur as part of the Companys normal business on a regular basis. Certain other items include, among other items, the gain on the fair value adjustment of Mercks existing interest in the MSP Partnership as a result of the Merger, the gain on the divestiture of the interest in Merial, the gain on a distribution from AZLP and certain legal settlements. Research and Development A chart reflecting the Companys current research pipeline as of February 12, 2010 is set forth in Item 1. Business Research and Development above. Research and Development Update In connection with the Merger, the Company is assessing its pipeline to identify the most promising, high potential compounds for development. The Company has completed the prioritization of its clinical development programs. The Company is continuing to work on the prioritization of its value adding programs related to currently marketed products and to its preclinical/discovery programs. The Company anticipates that the full prioritization process will be completed by the first half of 2010. In connection with this process, the Company may recognize non cash impairment charges for the cancellation of certain legacy Schering Plough pipeline programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the Merger. These non cash impairment charges, which are anticipated to be excluded from the Companys non GAAP earnings, could be material to the Companys future GAAP earnings. The Company currently has a number of candidates under regulatory review in the United States and internationally. Additionally, the Company has 19 drug candidates in Phase III development. MK 6621, vernakalant (IV), is an investigational candidate for the treatment of atrial fibrillation currently undergoing regulatory review in the EU. In April 2009, Old Merck and Cardiome Pharma Corp. (Cardiome) announced a collaboration and license agreement for the development and commercialization of vernakalant which provides Merck exclusive rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico to the intravenous formulation of vernakalant (see below). Vernakalent (oral) is currently in Phase II development. Merck has exclusive global rights to the oral formulation of vernakalent for the maintenance of normal heart rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation. SCH 418131, MFF, is a combination of two previously approved drugs for the treatment of asthma: mometasone (Asmanex) and formoterol (Foradil). The Company is aiming to create a new option for patients by bringing these two key treatments together. In July 2009, Schering Plough announced that it had filed a New Drug Application (NDA) with the FDA for MFF. MFF is also currently under regulatory review in the EU. SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, is an oral contraceptive that combines a selective progestin with estradiol, the estrogen that women produce naturally. The drug is currently under regulatory review in the EU. It is in Phase III development for the U.S. market. SCH 900274, Saphris, asenapine, a central nervous system compound for bipolar I disorder and schizophrenia, is currently undergoing regulatory review in the EU. The FDA approved Saphris in August 2009. SCH 900616, Bridion, sugammadex, is a medication designed to rapidly reverse the effects of certain muscle relaxants used as part of general anesthesia to ensure patients remain immobile during surgical procedures. It differs from other reversal agents that can only be administered once the muscle relaxant begins to wear off. Bridion has received regulatory approval in the EU, Australia, New Zealand and Japan, and is under regulatory review in other markets, including the United States. Prior to the Merger, Schering Plough received a complete response letter from the FDA for Bridion. Following further communication from the FDA, the Company is assessing the agencys feedback in order to determine a new timetable for response. SCH 503034, boceprevir, is a hepatitis C protease inhibitor currently under development. Boceprevir is fully enrolled in its Phase III program, which the Company expects to conclude in mid 2010. The Company expects to submit an NDA to the FDA for boceprevir by the end of 2010 for both treatment experienced and treatment nave patients with hepatitis C. 82 Table of Contents MK 8669, ridaforolimus, is a novel mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of cancer. The drug candidate is being jointly developed and commercialized with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc., under an agreement entered into in 2007. A Phase III study (SUCCEED) in patients with metastatic soft tissue or bone sarcomas is underway. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA for ridaforolimus with the FDA in 2010, subject to a review of the results from the planned interim analysis of SUCCEED. SCH 697243, an allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet (AIT) for grass pollen allergy, is being developed by the Company. In November 2009, SCH 697243 met the primary endpoint in a Phase III study of adult subjects in the United States with a history of grass pollen induced rhinoconjunctivitis with or without asthma. The investigational grass AIT treatment is designed to work by inducing a protective immune response against grass pollen allergy and providing sustained prevention of allergy symptoms, treating both the symptoms and the underlying cause of the disease. SCH 039641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in Phase III development for the U.S. market. SCH 530348, vorapaxar, is a thrombin receptor antagonist or antiplatelet protease activated receptor 1 inhibitor being studied for the prevention and treatment of thrombosis. In November 2009, Merck announced completion of patient enrollment of more than 26,000 patients in the TRA 2P TIMI 50 clinical trial, a Phase III, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, multinational study. The trial will assess the ability of SCH 530348 to prevent major cardiovascular events when added to current antiplatelet regimens (aspirin or aspirin plus an ADP inhibitor) in patients who have previously experienced a heart attack or stroke or who have peripheral arterial disease. SCH 530348 is also being studied in the treatment of patients with acute coronary syndrome in the ongoing Phase III Thrombin Receptor Antagonist for Clinical Event Reduction in Acute Coronary Syndrome trial, led by the Duke Clinical Research Institute. The Company anticipates filing an NDA for vorapaxar with the FDA in 2011. MK 2452, tafluprost, is a preservative free, synthetic analogue of the prostaglandin F2 for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. In April 2009, Old Merck and Santen announced a worldwide licensing agreement for tafluprost (see below). As previously disclosed, Old Merck submitted for filing an NDA with the FDA for MK 0653C, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin, which is an investigational medication for the treatment of dyslipidemia, and the FDA refused to file the application. The FDA has identified additional manufacturing and stability data that are needed and the Company is assessing the FDAs response and anticipates filing in 2011. MK 0431C, a candidate currently in Phase III clinical development, combines Januvia with pioglitazone, another type 2 diabetes therapy. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA for MK 0431C with the FDA in 2011. MK 0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once weekly investigational treatment for osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is a disease which reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. In September 2009, data from a Phase IIB clinical study of odanacatib were presented at the 31st Annual Meeting of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research which showed that when stopping treatment after two years the increases in lower back (lumbar spine) bone mineral density (BMD) were reversed over the next year, while BMD at the hip (femoral neck) remained above levels observed at the start of the study. Additionally, three years of treatment with odanacatib 50 mg demonstrated increases in BMD at key fracture sites and minimal impact on the formation of new bone as measured by biochemical markers of bone turnover. Odanacatib is currently in Phase III clinical trials and is being evaluated in a large scale, global outcomes study to determine its effects on vertebral, hip and non vertebral fractures. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in 2012. V503 is a nine valent HPV vaccine in development to expand protection against cancer causing HPV types. The Phase III clinical program is underway and Merck anticipates filing a Biologics License Application (BLA) with the FDA in 2012. 83 Table of Contents MK 0524A is a drug candidate that combines extended release (ER) niacin and a novel flushing inhibitor, laropiprant. MK 0524A has demonstrated the ability to lower LDL cholesterol (LDL C or bad cholesterol), raise HDL cholesterol (HDL C or good cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with significantly less flushing than traditional extended release niacin alone. High LDL C, low HDL C and elevated triglycerides are risk factors associated with heart attacks and strokes. In April 2008, Old Merck received a non approvable action letter from the FDA in response to its NDA for MK 0524A. At a meeting to discuss the letter, the FDA stated that additional efficacy and safety data were required and suggested that Old Merck wait for the results of the Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence of Vascular Events (HPS2 THRIVE) cardiovascular outcomes study, which is expected to be completed in 2012. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA for MK 0524A in 2012. MK 0524A has been approved in more than 45 countries outside the United States for the treatment of dyslipidemia, particularly in patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia (characterized by elevated levels of LDL C and triglycerides and low HDL C) and in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial and non familial) and is marketed as Tredaptive (or as Cordaptive in certain countries). Tredaptive should be used in patients in combination with statins, when the cholesterol lowering effects of statin monotherapy is inadequate. Tredaptive can be used as monotherapy only in patients in whom statins are considered inappropriate or not tolerated. MK 0524B is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to raising HDL C and lowering triglycerides from ER niacin combined with laropiprant with the proven benefits of simvastatin in one combination product. Merck will not seek approval for MK 0524B in the United States until it files its complete response relating to MK 0524A. MK 0859, anacetrapib, is an inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein that has shown promise in lipid management by raising HDL C and reducing LDL C without raising blood pressure. In November 2009, Merck announced that in a Phase IIb study in 589 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed hyperlipidemia treated with anacetrapib as monotherapy or co administered with atorvastatin, there were persistent lipid effects in the higher dose arms in both the monotherapy and co administration treatment groups eight weeks after stopping active therapy with anacetrapib. The effect of CETP inhibition on cardiovascular risk has yet to be established. A Phase III trial, titled DEFINE, is ongoing to further evaluate the safety and efficacy of anacetrapib in patients with coronary heart disease. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2015. As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced it was delaying the filing of the U.S. application for telcagepant (MK 0974), the Companys investigational calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist for the intermittent treatment of acute migraine. The decision was based on findings from a Phase IIa exploratory study in which a small number of patients taking telcagepant twice daily for three months for the prevention of migraine were found to have marked elevations in liver transaminases. The daily dosing regimen in the prevention study was different than the dosing regimen used in Phase III studies in which telcagepant was intermittently administered in one or two doses to treat individual migraine attacks as they occurred. Other studies with telcagepant for the acute, intermittent treatment of migraine continue. Following meetings with regulatory agencies at the end of 2009, Merck is planning to conduct an additional safety study as part of the overall Phase III program for telcagepant. The results of this study will inform planned filings for approval. SCH 900395, acadesine, is a potential first in class adenosine regulating agent for ischemia reperfusion injury in patients undergoing heart bypass surgery. Patient enrollment in the RED CABG Phase III clinical trial was initiated in 2009. SCH 417690, vicriviroc, for the treatment of HIV infection (treatment experienced) was evaluated in two Phase III studies in this patient population, and it was announced in January 2010 that the primary efficacy endpoint was not met. Merck will not submit an NDA to the FDA for vicriviroc in treatment experienced HIV infected patients at this time but will continue to evaluate vicriviroc as first line therapy for treatment naive patients. As previously disclosed, in 2007, Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Cubist) entered into a license agreement with Old Merck for the development and commercialization of Cubicin (daptomycin for injection, MK3009) in Japan. Merck will develop and commercialize Cubicin through its wholly owned subsidiary, Banyu Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Cubist commercializes Cubicin in the United States. MK 3009 is currently in Phase III development. 84 Table of Contents MK 4305 is an orexin receptor antagonist, a potential new approach to the treatment of chronic insomnia, currently in Phase III development. SCH 900962, Elonva, corifollitropin alpha injection, which has been approved in the EC for controlled ovarian stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the development of multiple follicles in women participating in an assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in Phase III development in the United States. Merck has terminated the internal clinical development program for esmirtazapine (SCH 900265) for hot flashes and insomnia for strategic reasons. As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced that preliminary results for the pivotal Phase III study of rolofylline (MK 7418), its investigational medicine for the treatment of acute heart failure, showed that rolofylline did not meet the primary or secondary efficacy endpoints. Old Merck terminated the clinical development program for rolofylline. In Process Research and Development In connection with the Merger, the Company recorded the fair value of human and animal health research projects underway at Schering Plough. Approximately $5.0 billion of the consideration transferred in the Merger was allocated to Pharmaceutical segment IPRD projects and $1.3 billion was allocated to Animal Health operating segment IPRD projects. Some of the more significant projects include Bridion, vorapaxar and boceprevir, all of which are in Phase III clinical development, as well as an ezetimibe/atorvastatin combination product. These projects are discussed in further detail above. Also, as noted above, the Company expects to file NDAs with the FDA in 2010 for boceprevir and in 2011 for vorapaxar and the ezetimibe/atorvastatin combination product. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to IPRD were determined by using an income approach, through which fair value is estimated based on each assets probability adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the different stages of development of each product and the associated probability of successful completion. The net cash flows are then discounted to present value using discount rates which range from 12% to 15%. Actual cash flows are likely to be different than those assumed. Additional research and development will be required before any of the programs reach technological feasibility. The costs to complete the research projects will depend on whether the projects are brought to their final stages of development and are ultimately submitted to the FDA or other regulatory agencies for approval. As of December 31, 2009, the estimated costs to complete projects in Phase III development for human health and the analogous stage of development for animal health were approximately $1.6 billion. All of the IPRD projects are subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties in drug development and it is possible that the Company will not be able to successfully develop and complete the IPRD programs and profitably commercialize the underlying product candidates. The time periods to receive approvals from the FDA and other regulatory agencies are subject to uncertainty. Significant delays in the approval process, or the Companys failure to obtain approval at all, will delay or prevent the Company from realizing revenues from these products. Additionally, if certain of the IPRD programs fail or are abandoned during development as a result of the Companys portfolio prioritization process or otherwise, then the Company will not realize the future cash flows it has estimated and recorded as IPRD on the Merger date, and the Company may also not recover the research and development expenditures made since the Merger to further develop that program. If such circumstances were to occur, the Companys future operating results could be adversely affected. Acquisitions, Research Collaborations and License Agreements Merck continues to remain focused on augmenting its internal efforts by capitalizing on growth opportunities that will drive both near and long term growth. During 2009, transactions across a broad range of therapeutic categories, as well as early stage technology transactions were completed. Merck is actively 85 Table of Contents monitoring the landscape for growth opportunities that meet the Companys strategic criteria. Highlights from these activities include: In December 2009, Merck and Avecia Investments Limited announced a definitive agreement under which Merck would acquire the biologics business of the Avecia group for a total purchase price of $180 million. Avecia Biologics is a contract manufacturing organization with specific expertise in microbial derived biologics. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck would acquire Avecia Biologics Limited (Avecia) and all of its assets, including all Avecias process development and scale up, manufacturing, quality and business support operations located in Billingham, United Kingdom. This transaction closed on February 1, 2010, and accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business will be included in Mercks results of operations beginning as of the acquisition date. In July 2009, Old Merck and Portola Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Portola) signed an exclusive global collaboration and license agreement for the development and commercialization of betrixaban (MK 4448), an investigational oral Factor Xa inhibitor anticoagulant currently in Phase II clinical development for the prevention of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation. In return for an exclusive worldwide license to betrixaban, Old Merck paid Portola an initial fee of $50 million at closing, which was recorded as research and development expense. Portola is eligible to receive additional cash payments totaling up to $420 million upon achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercialization milestones, as well as double digit royalties on worldwide sales of betrixaban, if approved. The Company will assume all development and commercialization costs, including the costs of Phase III clinical trials. Portola retained an option (a) to co fund Phase III clinical trials in return for additional royalties and (b) to co promote betrixaban with Merck in the United States. The term of the agreement commenced in August 2009 and, unless terminated earlier, will continue until there are no remaining royalty payment obligations in a country, at which time the agreement will expire in its entirety in such country. The agreement may be terminated by either party in the event of a material uncured breach or bankruptcy of a party. The agreement may be terminated by Merck in the event that the parties or Merck decide to cease development of betrixaban for safety or efficacy. In addition, Merck may terminate the agreement at any time upon 180 days prior written notice. Portola may terminate the agreement in the event that Merck challenges any Portola patent covering betrixaban. Upon termination of the agreement, depending upon the circumstances, the parties have varying rights and obligations with respect to the continued development and commercialization of betrixaban and, in the case of termination for cause by Merck, certain royalty obligations. In April 2009, Old Merck, Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) and Massachusetts Biologic Laboratories (MBL) of the University of Massachusetts Medical School announced an exclusive worldwide license agreement for CDA 1 and CDB 1 (MK 3415A) (also known as MDX 066/MDX 1388 and MBL CDA1/MBL CDB1), an investigational fully human monoclonal antibody combination developed to target and neutralize Clostridium difficile toxins A and B, for the treatment of C. difficile infection. CDA 1 and CDB 1 were co developed by Medarex and MBL. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck gained worldwide rights to develop and commercialize CDA 1 and CDB 1. Medarex and MBL received an aggregate upfront payment of $60 million upon closing, which was recorded as research and development expense, and are potentially eligible to receive additional cash payments up to $165 million in the aggregate upon achievement of certain milestones associated with the development and approval of a drug candidate covered by this agreement. Upon commercialization, Medarex and MBL will also be eligible to receive double digit royalties on product sales and milestones if certain sales targets are met. The term of the agreement commenced on the closing date and, unless terminated earlier, will continue until there are no remaining royalty payment obligations in a country, at which time the agreement will expire in its entirety in such country. Either party may terminate this agreement for uncured material breach by the other party, or bankruptcy or insolvency of the other party. Merck may terminate this agreement at any time upon providing 180 days prior written notice to Medarex and MBL. Also, in April 2009, Old Merck and Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Santen) announced a worldwide licensing agreement for tafluprost (MK 2452), a prostaglandin analogue under investigation in the United States. Tafluprost, preserved and preservative free formulations, has received marketing approval for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension in several European and Nordic countries as well as Japan and has been filed for approval in additional European and Asia Pacific markets. Under the terms of the agreement, Old Merck paid a fee, which was capitalized and will be amortized to Materials and 86 Table of Contents production costs over the life of the underlying patent, and will pay milestones and royalty payments based on future sales of tafluprost (both preserved and preservative free formulations) in exchange for exclusive commercial rights to tafluprost in Western Europe (excluding Germany), North America, South America and Africa. Santen will retain commercial rights to tafluprost in most countries in Eastern Europe, Northern Europe and Asia Pacific, including Japan. Merck will provide promotion support to Santen in Germany and Poland. If tafluprost is approved in the United States, Santen has an option to co promote it there. The agreement between Old Merck and Santen expires on a country by country basis on the last to occur of (a) the expiry of the last to expire valid patent claim; or (b) the expiration of the last to expire royalty. Merck may terminate the agreement at any time upon 90 days prior written notice and also at any time upon 60 days prior written notice if Merck determines that the product presents issues of safety or tolerability. In addition, Merck may terminate the agreement in the event that any of the enumerated agreements between Santen and the co owner/licensor of certain intellectual property terminate or expire and this materially adversely affects Merck. If either Merck or Santen materially breaches the agreement and fails to cure after receiving notice, then the non breaching party may terminate the agreement. The agreement provides for termination by the non insolvent party due to bankruptcy by the other party. Finally, the agreement will terminate if, during the term, Merck develops or commercializes a competitive product (as that term is defined in the agreement). In addition, in April 2009, Old Merck and Cardiome Pharma Corp. (Cardiome) announced a collaboration and license agreement for the development and commercialization of vernakalant (MK 6621), an investigational candidate for the treatment of atrial fibrillation. The agreement provides Merck with exclusive global rights to the oral formulation of vernakalant (vernakalant (oral)) for the maintenance of normal heart rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation, and provides a Merck affiliate, Merck Sharp Dohme (Switzerland) GmbH, with exclusive rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico to the intravenous (IV) formulation of vernakalant (vernakalant (IV)) for rapid conversion of acute atrial fibrillation to normal heart rhythm. Under the terms of the agreement, Old Merck paid Cardiome an initial fee of $60 million upon closing, which was recorded as research and development expense. In addition, Cardiome is eligible to receive up to $200 million in payments based on achievement of certain milestones associated with the development and approval of vernakalant products (including $15 million for submission for regulatory approval in Europe of vernakalant (IV), which Old Merck paid in 2009 as a result of that submission, and $20 million for initiation of a planned Phase III program for vernakalant (oral)) and up to $100 million for milestones associated with approvals in other subsequent indications of both the intravenous and oral formulations. Also, Cardiome will receive tiered royalty payments on sales of any approved products and has the potential to receive up to $340 million in milestone payments based on achievement of significant sales thresholds. Cardiome has retained an option to co promote vernakalant (oral) with Merck through a hospital based sales force in the United States. Merck will be responsible for all future costs associated with the development, manufacturing and commercialization of these candidates. Merck has granted Cardiome a secured, interest bearing credit facility of up to $100 million that Cardiome may access in tranches over several years commencing in 2010. Cardiomes co development partner in North America, Astellas Pharma U.S., Inc., submitted an NDA with the FDA for Kynapid (vernakalant hydrochloride) Injection in December 2006 that included results from two pivotal Phase III clinical trials. In December 2007, the Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory Committee recommended that the FDA approve vernakalant (IV) for rapid conversion of atrial fibrillation. In August 2008, the FDA issued an Approvable action letter requesting additional information. A Phase IIb double blind, placebo controlled, randomized, dose ranging clinical trial in patients at risk of recurrent atrial fibrillation showed that, at the 500 mg dose, vernakalant (oral) significantly reduced the rate of atrial fibrillation relapse as compared to placebo. This agreement continues in effect until the expiration of Cardiomes co promotion rights and all royalty and milestone payment obligations. This agreement may be terminated in the event of insolvency or a material uncured breach by either party. Additionally, the collaboration may be terminated by Merck in the event that Merck determines (in good faith) that it is not advisable to continue the development or commercialization of a vernakalant product as a result of a serious safety issue. In addition, Merck may terminate the agreement at any time upon 12 months prior written notice. Cardiome may terminate the agreement in the event that Merck challenges any Cardiome patent covering vernakalant. Upon termination of the agreement, depending upon the circumstances, the parties have varying rights and obligations with respect to the continued development and commercialization of vernakalant and in some cases continuing royalty obligations. 87 Table of Contents In March 2009, Old Merck acquired Insmed Inc.s (Insmed) portfolio of follow on biologic therapeutic candidates and its commercial manufacturing facilities located in Boulder, Colorado. Under the terms of the agreement, Old Merck paid Insmed an aggregate of $130 million in cash to acquire all rights to the Boulder facilities and Insmeds pipeline of follow on biologic candidates. Insmeds follow on biologics portfolio includes two clinical candidates: MK 4214, an investigational recombinant granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G CSF) that will be evaluated for its ability to prevent infections in patients with cancer receiving chemotherapy, and MK 6302, a pegylated recombinant G CSF designed to allow for less frequent dosing. The transaction was accounted for as a business combination; accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. The determination of fair value requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions. In connection with the acquisition, substantially all of the purchase price was allocated to Insmeds follow on biologics portfolio (MK 4214 and MK 6302) and an indefinite lived intangible asset was recorded. The fair value was determined based upon the present value of expected future cash flows of new product candidates resulting from Insmeds follow on biologics portfolio adjusted for the probability of their estimated technical and marketing success utilizing an income approach reflecting appropriate risk adjusted discount rates. The ongoing activity related to MK 4214 and MK 6302 is not expected to be material to the Companys research and development expense. The remaining net assets acquired were not material and there were no other milestone or royalty obligations associated with the acquisition. This transaction closed on March 31, 2009, and accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in Mercks results of operations beginning April 1, 2009. The Company maintains a number of long term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. The Companys research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the Companys research and development resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific opportunity and commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major impact on human health, on developing best in class approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its new medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. Another important component of the Companys science based diversification is based on expanding the Companys portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and vaccines, but also biologics, peptides and RNAi. Further, Merck moved to diversify its portfolio by creating a new division, Merck BioVentures, which has the potential to harness the market opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by delivering high quality follow on biologic products to enhance access for patients worldwide. The Company will continue to pursue appropriate external licensing opportunities. The integration plans for research and development are focused on integrating the research operations of the legacy companies, including providing an effective transition for employees, realizing projected merger synergies in the form of cost savings and revenue growth opportunities, and maintaining momentum in the Companys late state pipeline. During 2009, Merck continued implementing a new model for its basic research global operating strategy at legacy Merck Research Laboratories sites. The new model will align franchise and function as well as align resources with disease area priorities and balance capacity across discovery phases and allow the Company to act upon those programs with the highest probability of success. Additionally, across all disease area priorities, the Companys strategy is designed to expand access to worldwide external science and incorporate external research as a key component of the Companys early discovery pipeline in order to translate basic research productivity into late stage clinical success. The Companys clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including anemia, atherosclerosis, cancer, diabetes, heart disease, hypertension, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, migraine, neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis, psychiatric diseases, respiratory disease and womens health. The Company supplements its internal research with an aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late stage compounds, as well as new technologies. 88 Table of Contents Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information To expand its research base and realize synergies from combining capabilities, opportunities and assets, in previous years Old Merck formed a number of joint ventures. (See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.) Merck/Schering Plough Partnership In 2000, Old Merck and Schering Plough (collectively, the Partners) entered into an agreement to create an equally owned partnership to develop and market in the United States new prescription medicines for cholesterol management. This agreement generally provided for equal sharing of development costs and for co promotion of approved products by each company. In 2001, the cholesterol management partnership was expanded to include all the countries of the world, excluding Japan. In 2002, ezetimibe, the first in a new class of cholesterol lowering agents, was launched in the United States as Zetia (marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States). In 2004, a combination product containing the active ingredients of both Zetia and Zocor was approved in the United States as Vytorin (marketed as Inegy outside the United States). Vytorin is the only combination tablet cholesterol treatment to provide LDL cholesterol lowering through the dual inhibition of cholesterol production and absorption. The cholesterol agreements provided for the sharing of operating income generated by the MSP Partnership based upon percentages that vary by product, sales level and country. In the U.S. market, the Partners shared profits on Zetia and Vytorin sales equally, with the exception of the first $300 million of annual Zetia sales, on which Schering Plough received a greater share of profits. Operating income included expenses that the Partners contractually agreed to share, such as a portion of manufacturing costs, specifically identified promotion costs (including direct to consumer advertising and direct and identifiable out of pocket promotion) and other agreed upon costs for specific services such as on going clinical research, market support, market research, market expansion, as well as a specialty sales force and physician education programs. Expenses incurred in support of the MSP Partnership but not shared between the Partners, such as marketing and administrative expenses (including certain sales force costs), as well as certain manufacturing costs, were not included in Equity income from affiliates. However, these costs were reflected in the overall results of each legacy company. Certain research and development expenses were generally shared equally by the Partners, after adjusting for earned milestones. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is now owned 100% by the Company. The results of the MSP Partnership through the date of the Merger are reflected in Equity income from affiliates. The results from sales of MSP Partnership products after the Merger have been consolidated with Mercks results. Sales of joint venture products were as follows(1): 2009 ($ in millions) Pre Merger Post Merger Total 2008 2007 Vytorin $ 1,689.5 $ 370.6 $ 2,060.1 $ 2,360.0 $ 2,779.1 Zetia 1,697.7 370.3 2,068.0 2,201.1 2,407.1 $ 3,387.2 $ 740.9 $ 4,128.1 $ 4,561.1 $ 5,186.2 (1) Amounts exclude sales of these products by the Partners outside of the MSP Partnership. Following the previously announced ENHANCE and SEAS clinical trial results (discussed below), sales of Vytorin and Zetia declined in 2009 and 2008. As previously disclosed, in January 2008, the legacy companies announced the results of the Effect of Combination Ezetimibe and High Dose Simvastatin vs. Simvastatin Alone on the Atherosclerotic Process in Patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (ENHANCE) clinical trial, an imaging trial in 720 patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, a rare genetic condition that causes very high levels of LDL bad cholesterol and greatly increases the risk for premature coronary artery disease. As previously reported, despite the fact that ezetimibe/simvastatin 10/80 mg (Vytorin) significantly lowered LDL bad cholesterol more than simvastatin 80 mg alone, there was no significant difference between treatment with ezetimibe/simvastatin and simvastatin alone on the pre specified primary endpoint, a change in the thickness of carotid artery walls over two years as measured by ultrasound. The Improved Reduction in High Risk Subjects Presenting with Acute Coronary Syndrome (IMPROVE IT) trial is underway and is designed to provide cardiovascular outcomes data for ezetimibe/simvastatin in patients with acute coronary syndrome. No incremental benefit of ezetimibe/ 89 Table of Contents simvastatin on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality over and above that demonstrated for simvastatin has been established. In January 2009, the FDA announced that it had completed its review of the final clinical study report of ENHANCE. The FDA stated that the results from ENHANCE did not change its position that elevated LDL cholesterol is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and that lowering LDL cholesterol reduces the risk for cardiovascular disease. On July 21, 2008, efficacy and safety results from the Simvastatin and Ezetimibe in Aortic Stenosis (SEAS) study were announced. SEAS was designed to evaluate whether intensive lipid lowering with Vytorin 10/40 mg would reduce the need for aortic valve replacement and the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality versus placebo in patients with asymptomatic mild to moderate aortic stenosis who had no indication for statin therapy. Vytorin failed to meet its primary end point for the reduction of major cardiovascular events. In the study, patients in the group who took Vytorin 10/40 mg had a higher incidence of cancer than the group who took placebo. There was also a nonsignificant increase in deaths from cancer in patients in the group who took Vytorin versus those who took placebo. Cancer and cancer deaths were distributed across all major organ systems. The Company believes the cancer finding in SEAS is likely to be an anomaly that, taken in light of all the available data, does not support an association with Vytorin. In August 2008, the FDA announced that it was investigating the results from the SEAS trial. In December 2009, the FDA announced that it had completed its review of the data from the SEAS trial as well as a review of interim data from the Study of Heart and Renal Protection (SHARP) and IMPROVE IT trials. Based on currently available information, the FDA indicated it believed it is unlikely that Vytorin or Zetia increase the risk of cancer related death. The SHARP trial is expected to be completed in 2010. The IMPROVE IT trial is scheduled for completion in 2013. In the IMPROVE IT trial, a blinded interim efficacy analysis will be conducted by the Data Safety Monitoring Board for the trial when approximately 50% of the endpoints have been accrued. That interim analysis is expected to be conducted in 2010. The Company is committed to working with regulatory agencies to further evaluate the available data and interpretations of those data; however, the Company does not believe that changes in the clinical use of Vytorin are warranted. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for information with respect to litigation involving the Partners and the MSP Partnership related to the sale and promotion of Zetia and Vytorin. The results from Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership through the completion of the Merger are recorded in Equity income from affiliates. Equity income was $1.2 billion in 2009, $1.5 billion in 2008 and $1.8 billion in 2007. The financial statements of the MSP Partnership for 2008 are included in Item 15. (a) (2) Financial Statement Schedules below. AstraZeneca LP In 1982, Old Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB (Astra) to develop and market Astras products under a royalty bearing license. In 1993, Old Mercks total sales of Astra products reached a level that triggered the first step in the establishment of a joint venture business carried on by Astra Merck Inc. (AMI), in which Old Merck and Astra each owned a 50% share. This joint venture, formed in 1994, developed and marketed most of Astras new prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec, the first of a class of medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining. In 1998, Old Merck and Astra completed the restructuring of the ownership and operations of the joint venture whereby Old Merck acquired Astras interest in AMI, renamed KBI Inc. (KBI), and contributed KBIs operating assets to a new U.S. limited partnership, Astra Pharmaceuticals L.P. (the Partnership), in exchange for a 1% limited partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP (AZLP) upon Astras 1999 merger with Zeneca Group Plc (the AstraZeneca merger), became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI retained rights. 90 Table of Contents While maintaining a 1% limited partner interest in AZLP, Merck has consent and protective rights intended to preserve its business and economic interests, including restrictions on the power of the general partner to make certain distributions or dispositions. Furthermore, in limited events of default, additional rights will be granted to the Company, including powers to direct the actions of, or remove and replace, the Partnerships chief executive officer and chief financial officer. Merck earns ongoing revenue based on sales of current and future KBI products and such revenue was $1.4 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. In addition, Merck earns certain Partnership returns, which are recorded in Equity income from affiliates. Such returns include a priority return provided for in the Partnership Agreement, variable returns based, in part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a preferential return representing Mercks share of undistributed AZLP GAAP earnings. These returns aggregated $674.3 million, $598.4 million and $820.1 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The AstraZeneca merger triggered a partial redemption in March 2008 of Old Mercks interest in certain AZLP product rights. Upon this redemption, Old Merck received $4.3 billion from AZLP. This amount was based primarily on a multiple of Old Mercks average annual variable returns derived from sales of the former Astra USA, Inc. products for the three years prior to the redemption (the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value). A pretax gain of $1.5 billion on the partial redemption was recorded in 2008. The partial redemption of Old Mercks interest in the product rights did not result in a change in Old Mercks 1% limited partnership interest. In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring, Astra purchased an option (the Asset Option) for a payment of $443.0 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to buy Old Mercks interest in the KBI products, excluding the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec (the Non PPI Products). AstraZeneca can exercise the Asset Option in the first half of 2010 at an exercise price of $647 million which represents the net present value as of March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be received by Old Merck from the Non PPI Products (the Appraised Value). On February 26, 2010, AstraZeneca notified the Company that it was exercising the Asset Option. Old Merck also had the right to require Astra to purchase such interest in 2008 at the Appraised Value. In February 2008, Old Merck advised AstraZeneca that it would not exercise the Asset Option, thus the $443.0 million remains deferred but will be recognized when the Asset Option is consummated. In addition, in 1998, Old Merck granted Astra an option (the Shares Option) to buy Old Mercks common stock interest in KBI and, therefore, Old Mercks interest in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable two years after Astras exercise of the Asset Option. Astra can also exercise the Shares Option in 2017 or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a minimum amount provided, in each case, only so long as AstraZenecas Asset Option has been exercised in 2010. The exercise price for the Shares Option is based on the net present value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec as determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain true up mechanisms. The AstraZeneca merger constituted a Trigger Event under the KBI restructuring agreements. As a result of the merger, in exchange for Old Mercks relinquishment of rights to future Astra products with no existing or pending U.S. patents at the time of the merger, Astra paid $967.4 million (the Advance Payment). The Advance Payment was deferred as it remained subject to a true up calculation (the True Up Amount) that was directly dependent on the fair market value in March 2008 of the Astra product rights retained by Old Merck. The calculated True Up Amount of $243.7 million was returned to AZLP in March 2008 and a pretax gain of $723.7 million was recognized related to the residual Advance Payment balance. Under the provisions of the KBI restructuring agreements, because a Trigger Event has occurred, the sum of the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value, the Appraised Value and the True Up Amount was guaranteed to be a minimum of $4.7 billion. Distribution of the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value less payment of the True Up Amount resulted in cash receipts to Old Merck of $4.0 billion and an aggregate pretax gain of $2.2 billion which is included in Other (income) expense, net in 2008. AstraZenecas purchase of Old Mercks interest in the Non PPI Products is contingent upon the exercise of the Asset Option by AstraZeneca in 2010 and, therefore, payment of the Appraised Value may or may not occur. Also, in March 2008, the $1.38 billion outstanding loan from Astra plus interest through the redemption date was settled. As a result of these transactions, Old Merck received net proceeds from AZLP of $2.6 billion in 2008. 91 Table of Contents Merial Limited In 1997, Old Merck and Rhne Poulenc S.A. (now sanofi aventis) combined their animal health businesses to form Merial Limited (Merial), a fully integrated animal health company, which was a stand alone joint venture, 50% owned by each party. Merial provides a comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to enhance the health, well being and performance of a wide range of animal species. On September 17, 2009, Old Merck sold its 50% interest in Merial to sanofi aventis for $4 billion in cash. The sale resulted in the recognition of a $3.2 billion gain reflected in Other income (expense), net in 2009. Also, in connection with the sale of Merial, Old Merck, sanofi aventis and Schering Plough signed a call option agreement. Under the terms of the call option agreement, following the closing of the Merger, sanofi aventis has an option to require the Company to combine its Intervet/Schering Plough Animal Health business with Merial to form an animal health joint venture that would be owned equally by the Company and sanofi aventis. As part of the call option agreement, the value of Merial has been fixed at $8 billion. The minimum total value received by the Company and its affiliates for contributing Intervet/Schering Plough to the combined entity would be $9.25 billion (subject to customary transaction adjustments), consisting of a floor valuation of Intervet/Schering Plough which is fixed at a minimum of $8.5 billion (subject to potential upward revision based on a valuation exercise by the two parties) and an additional payment by sanofi aventis of $750 million. Based on the valuation exercise of Intervet/Schering Plough and the customary transaction adjustments, if Merial and Intervet/Schering Plough are combined, a payment may be required to be paid by either party to make the joint venture equally owned by the Company and sanofi aventis. This payment would true up the value of the contributions so that they are equal. Any formation of a new animal health joint venture with sanofi aventis is subject to customary closing conditions including antitrust review in the United States and Europe. Prior to the closing of the Merger, the agreements provided Old Merck with certain rights to terminate the call option for a fee of $400 million. The recognition of the termination fee was deferred until the fourth quarter of 2009 when the conditions that could have triggered its payment lapsed. Sales of joint venture products were as follows: ($ in millions) 2009(1) 2008 2007 Fipronil products $ 783.9 $ 1,053.0 $ 1,033.3 Biological products 524.5 789.7 674.9 Avermectin products 341.4 511.8 478.4 Other products 199.7 288.2 262.2 $ 1,849.5 $ 2,642.7 $ 2,448.8 (1)Amounts for 2009 include sales until the September 17, 2009 divestiture date. Sanofi Pasteur MSD In 1994, Old Merck and Pasteur Merieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) established a 50% owned joint venture to market vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in Europe. Sales of joint venture products were as follows: ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Gardasil $ 549.2 $ 865.3 $ 476.0 Influenza vaccines 249.4 229.9 232.5 Other viral vaccines 112.1 105.1 86.8 Hepatitis vaccines 44.2 72.6 72.9 RotaTeq 42.2 28.4 15.7 Other vaccines 591.5 583.5 554.1 $ 1,588.6 $ 1,884.8 $ 1,438.0 92 Table of Contents Johnson JohnsonMerck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company In 1989, Old Merck formed a joint venture with Johnson Johnson to develop and market a broad range of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50% owned joint venture was subsequently expanded into Canada. Significant joint venture products are Pepcid AC, an over the counter form of the Companys ulcer medication Pepcid, as well as Pepcid Complete, an over the counter product which combines the Companys ulcer medication with antacids. Sales of joint venture products were as follows: ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Gastrointestinal products $ 202.0 $ 210.7 $ 218.5 Other products 1.2 1.4 1.2 $ 203.2 $ 212.1 $ 219.7 Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion in 2009, $1.3 billion in 2008 and $1.0 billion in 2007. Expenditures in the United States were $981.6 million in 2009, $946.6 million in 2008 and $788.0 million in 2007. Expenditures during 2009 included $801.5 million for production facilities, $161.2 million for research and development facilities, $33.6 million for environmental projects, and $464.3 million for administrative, safety and general site projects, of which approximately 25% represents capital investments related to a multi year initiative to standardize the Companys information systems. Depreciation expense was $1.7 billion in 2009, $1.4 billion in 2008 and $1.8 billion in 2007 of which $1.0 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, applied to locations in the United States. Total depreciation expense in 2009, 2008 and 2007 included accelerated depreciation of $348.6 million, $216.7 million and $460.6 million, respectively, associated with restructuring activities (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Analysis of Liquidity and Capital Resources Mercks strong financial profile enables it to fully fund research and development, focus on external alliances, support in line products and maximize upcoming launches while providing significant cash returns to shareholders. Selected Data ($ in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Working capital $ 12,677.9 $ 4,793.9 $ 2,787.2 Total debt to total liabilities and equity 15.6 % 13.2 % 11.9 % Cash provided by operations to total debt 0.2:1 1.1:1 1.2:1 The $18 billion cash portion of the consideration for the Merger was funded with a combination of existing cash, including the proceeds from the sale of Old Mercks interest in Merial discussed above, the sale or redemption of short term investments and the issuance of debt. In preparation for the Merger, during 2009, Old Merck closed an underwritten public offering of $4.25 billion senior unsecured notes as discussed below. Additionally, a significant portion of the long term investments as of December 31, 2008 were liquidated in anticipation of the Merger. Cash provided by operating activities, which was $3.4 billion in 2009, $6.6 billion in 2008 and $7.0 billion in 2007, continues to be the Companys primary source of funds to finance operating needs, capital expenditures, treasury stock purchases and dividends paid to shareholders. Cash provided by operating activities in 2009 reflects $4.1 billion of payments into the Vioxx settlement funds and a $660 million payment made in connection with the previously disclosed settlement with the CRA. Cash provided by operating activities in 2008 reflects $2.1 billion received in connection with a partial redemption of Old Mercks partnership interest in AZLP, representing a 93 Table of Contents distribution of Old Mercks accumulated earnings on its investment in AZLP since inception. Cash provided by operating activities in 2008 was also affected by a $675 million payment made in connection with the previously disclosed resolution of investigations of civil claims by federal and state authorities relating to certain past marketing and selling activities and $750 million of payments into the Vioxx settlement funds. Cash provided by operating activities for 2007 reflects the payment made under a previously disclosed settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Cash provided by investing activities was $3.2 billion in 2009 compared with cash used by investing activities of $1.8 billion in 2008. The change was primarily driven by the release of restricted cash primarily due to the release of pledged collateral for certain Vioxx related matters, lower purchases of securities and other investments and proceeds from the 2009 disposition of Old Mercks interest in Merial. These increases in cash used by investing activities were partially offset by the use of cash to fund the Merger, as well as by a 2008 distribution from AZLP representing a return of Old Mercks investment in AZLP. Cash used by investing activities in 2008 was $1.8 billion compared with $2.8 billion in 2007. The lower use of cash by investing activities primarily reflects a distribution from AZLP in 2008 and a $1.1 billion payment in 2007 in connection with the December 2006 acquisition of Sirna Therapeutics, Inc., partially offset by higher net purchases of securities and other investments, higher capital expenditures and an increase in restricted assets. Cash used by financing activities was $1.6 billion in 2009 compared with $5.5 billion in 2008 reflecting the 2009 issuance of $4.25 billion senior unsecured notes, no purchases of treasury stock and lower payments on debt, partially offset by a net decrease in short term borrowings. Cash used in financing activities was $5.5 billion in 2008 compared with $4.9 billion in 2007 reflecting higher purchases of treasury stock, lower proceeds from the exercise stock options and higher payments on debt in connection with the settlement of a note due to Astra, partially offset by a net increase in short term borrowings. Dividends paid to stockholders were $3.2 billion in 2009 and $3.3 billion in 2008 and 2007. At December 31, 2009, the total of worldwide cash and investments was $10.0 billion, including $9.6 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, and $432.3 million of long term investments. In addition, the Company has $290 million of cash and investments restricted under certain collateral arrangements as discussed below. Working capital levels are more than adequate to meet the operating requirements of the Company. In August 2008, Old Merck executed a $4.1 billion letter of credit agreement with a financial institution, which satisfied certain conditions set forth in the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). Old Merck pledged collateral to the financial institution of approximately $5.1 billion pursuant to the terms of the letter of credit agreement. Although the amount of assets pledged as collateral was set by the letter of credit agreement and such assets are held in custody by a third party, the assets were managed by Old Merck. Old Merck considered the assets pledged under the letter of credit agreement to be restricted. The letter of credit amount and required collateral balances declined as payments (after the first $750 million) under the Settlement Agreement were made. As of December 31, 2008, $3.8 billion was recorded within Deferred income taxes and other current assets and $1.3 billion was classified as Other assets. During 2009, all remaining payments into the Vioxx settlement funds were made pursuant to the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement. Accordingly, the letter of credit agreement was terminated and the collateral was released. As previously disclosed, the IRS has completed its examination of Old Mercks tax returns for the years 1993 to 2001. As a result of the examination, Old Merck made an aggregate payment of $2.79 billion in February 2007. This payment was offset by (i) a tax refund of $165 million received in 2007 for amounts previously paid for these matters and (ii) a federal tax benefit of approximately $360 million related to interest included in the payment, resulting in a net cash cost to Old Merck of approximately $2.3 billion in 2007. The impact for years subsequent to 2001 for items reviewed as part of the examination was included in the payment although those years remain open in all other respects. The closing of the IRS examination did not have a material impact on results of operations in 2007 as these amounts had been previously accrued for. As previously disclosed, in October 2006, the CRA issued Old Merck a notice of reassessment containing adjustments related to certain intercompany pricing matters. In February 2009, Old Merck and the CRA negotiated a settlement agreement in regard to these matters. In accordance with the settlement, Old Merck paid an additional tax of approximately $300 million (U.S. dollars) and interest of approximately $360 million (U.S. dollars) with no 94 Table of Contents additional amounts or penalties due on this assessment. The settlement was accounted for in the first quarter of 2009. Old Merck had previously established reserves for these matters. A significant portion of the taxes paid is expected to be creditable for U.S. tax purposes. The resolution of these matters did not have a material effect on financial position or liquidity, other than with respect to the associated collateral as discussed below. In addition, in July 2007 and November 2008, the CRA proposed additional adjustments for 1999 and 2000, respectively, relating to other intercompany pricing matters. The adjustments would increase Canadian tax due by approximately $312 million (U.S. dollars) plus $314 million (U.S. dollars) of interest through December 31, 2009. It is possible that the CRA will propose similar adjustments for later years. The Company disagrees with the positions taken by the CRA and believes they are without merit. The Company intends to contest the assessments through the CRA appeals process and the courts if necessary. Management believes that resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on the Companys financial position or liquidity. In connection with the appeals process for the matters discussed above, during 2007, Old Merck pledged collateral to two financial institutions, one of which provided a guarantee to the CRA and the other to the Quebec Ministry of Revenue representing a portion of the tax and interest assessed. As a result of the settlement noted above, guarantees required to appeal the disputes were reduced or eliminated and approximately $960 million of associated collateral was released. Certain of the cash and investments continue to be collateralized for guarantees required to appeal other Canadian tax disputes. The collateral is included in Deferred income taxes and other current assets and Other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and totaled approximately $290 million and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The IRS is examining Old Mercks 2002 to 2005 federal income tax returns. In addition, various state and foreign tax examinations are in progress. For most of its other significant tax jurisdictions (both U.S. state and foreign), the Companys income tax returns are open for examination for the period 1999 through 2009. During the second quarter of 2007, the IRS completed its examination of Schering Ploughs 1997 2002 federal income tax returns. The Company is seeking resolution of an issue raised during this examination through the IRS administrative appeals process. In July 2007, Schering Plough made a payment of $98 million to the IRS pertaining to the 1997 2002 examination. The Companys income tax returns remain open with the IRS for the 1997 2009 tax years. During 2008, the IRS commenced its examination of the 2003 2006 federal income tax returns. This examination is expected to be completed in 2010. For most of its other significant tax jurisdictions (both U.S. state and foreign), the Companys income tax returns are open for examination for the period 2002 through 2009. The Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009 are as follows: Payments Due by Period ($ in millions) Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Purchase obligations $ 3,734.9 $ 2,380.8 $ 730.4 $ 523.0 $ 100.7 Loans payable and current portion of long term debt 1,362.3 1,362.3 Long term debt 15,329.1 2,378.5 3,966.5 8,984.1 Interest related to debt obligations 9,665.4 778.3 1,422.1 1,243.3 6,221.7 Unrecognized tax benefits (1) 324.0 324.0 Operating leases 944.8 281.6 393.4 195.1 74.7 $ 31,360.5 $ 5,127.0 $ 4,924.4 $ 5,927.9 $ 15,381.2 (1) As of December 31, 2009, the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, interest and penalties of $5.7 billion, including $324.0 million reflected as a current liability. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits beyond one year, a reasonable estimate of the period of cash settlement for years beyond 2010 can not be made. 95 Table of Contents Purchase obligations consist primarily of goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding and include obligations for minimum inventory contracts, research and development and advertising. Amounts reflected for research and development obligations do not include contingent milestone payments. Loans payable and current portion of long term debt also reflects $298.2 million of long dated notes that are subject to repayment at the option of the holders on an annual basis. Required funding obligations for 2010 relating to the Companys pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material. However, the Company currently anticipates contributing approximately $950 million and $50 million, respectively, to its pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans during 2010. On June 25, 2009, Old Merck closed an underwritten public offering of $4.25 billion senior unsecured notes consisting of $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 1.875% notes due 2011, $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.00% notes due 2015, $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.00% notes due 2019 and $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.85% notes due 2039. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually. The notes of each series are redeemable in whole or in part at any time, at the Companys option at the redemption prices specified in each notes associated prospectus. Proceeds from the notes were used to fund a portion of the cash consideration of the Merger. In December 2009, the Company filed a securities registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the automatic shelf registration process available to well known seasoned issuers which is effective for three years. Also, in connection with the Merger, on March 8, 2009, Old Merck entered into a financing commitment letter with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (collectively JPMorgan), under which JPMorgan committed to provide $7 billion of financing. On May 6, 2009, Old Merck entered into a $3 billion 364 day senior unsecured interim term loan facility (the bridge loan facility); a $3 billion 364 day asset sale revolving credit facility (the asset sale facility); and a $1 billion 364 day corporate revolving credit facility (the incremental facility). In connection with the above $4.25 billion offering, the bridge loan facility was terminated and the commitment of the lenders under the 364 day asset sale facility was reduced. Upon completion of the sale of Merial to sanofi aventis (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements), the asset sale facility was terminated. The incremental facility is available to backstop commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. This facility has not been drawn on and will expire in November 2010. Merck has incurred commitment fees of approximately $150 million associated with these facilities which are being amortized over the commitment period. In April 2009, Old Merck amended its $1.5 billion, 5 year revolving credit facility maturing in April 2013 to allow the facility to remain in place after the Merger. The Companys existing $2.0 billion credit facility maturing in August 2012 remains outstanding. These facilities provide backup liquidity for the Companys commercial paper borrowing facility and are for general corporate purposes. The Company has not drawn funding from either facility. Also, in connection with the Merger, effective as of November 3, 2009, New Merck executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of Old Merck and Old Merck executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of New Merck (excluding commercial paper), including for payments of principal and interest. The Companys long term credit ratings assigned by Moodys Investors Service and Standard Poors are Aa3 with a stable outlook and AA with a positive outlook, respectively. These ratings continue to allow access to the capital markets and flexibility in obtaining funds on competitive terms. The Company continues to maintain a conservative financial profile. The Company places its cash and investments in instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in its investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Despite this strong financial profile, certain contingent events, if realized, which are discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys liquidity and capital resources. The Company does not participate in any off balance sheet arrangements involving unconsolidated subsidiaries that provide financing or potentially expose the Company to unrecorded financial obligations. In November 2009 and February 2010, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.38 per share on the Companys common stock for the first and second quarter of 2010, respectively, and declared a 96 Table of Contents quarterly dividend of $3.75 per share on the 6% mandatory convertible preferred stock for the first and second quarter of 2010, respectively. In November 2009, the Board of Directors approved purchases over time of up to $3.0 billion of Mercks common stock for its treasury. No purchases of treasury stock were made in 2009. Old Merck purchased $2.7 billion and $1.4 billion of treasury stock in 2008 and 2007, respectively, under a previous program approved by Old Mercks Board of Directors in July 2002. Financial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures The Company manages the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on its earnings, cash flows and fair values of assets and liabilities through operational means and through the use of various financial instruments, including derivative instruments. A significant portion of the Companys revenues and earnings in foreign affiliates is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. The objectives and accounting related to the Companys foreign currency risk management program, as well as its interest rate risk management activities are discussed below. Foreign Currency Risk Management A significant portion of the Companys revenues are denominated in foreign currencies. Merck relies on sustained cash flows generated from foreign sources to support its long term commitment to U.S. dollar based research and development. To the extent the dollar value of cash flows is diminished as a result of a strengthening dollar, the Companys ability to fund research and other dollar based strategic initiatives at a consistent level may be impaired. The Company has established revenue hedging and balance sheet risk management programs to protect against volatility of future foreign currency cash flows and changes in fair value caused by volatility in foreign exchange rates at its U.S. functional currency entities. The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the potential for longer term unfavorable changes in foreign exchange to decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash flows derived from foreign currency denominated sales, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. To achieve this objective, the Company will partially hedge forecasted foreign currency denominated third party and intercompany distributor entity sales that are expected to occur over its planning cycle, typically no more than three years into the future. The Company will layer in hedges over time, increasing the portion of third party and intercompany distributor sales hedged as it gets closer to the expected date of the forecasted foreign currency denominated sales, such that it is probable the hedged transaction will occur. The portion of sales hedged is based on assessments of cost benefit profiles that consider natural offsetting exposures, revenue and exchange rate volatilities and correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The hedged anticipated sales are a specified component of a portfolio of similarly denominated foreign currency based sales transactions, each of which responds to the hedged risk in the same manner. The Company manages its anticipated transaction exposure principally with purchased local currency put options, which provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation, to sell foreign currencies in the future at a predetermined price. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, total changes in the options cash flows offset the decline in the expected future U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the options value reduces to zero, but the Company benefits from the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows. The Company also utilizes forward contracts in its revenue hedging program. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, the increase in the fair value of the forward contracts offsets the decrease in the expected future U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the decrease in the fair value of the forward contracts offsets the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows. While a weaker U.S. dollar would result in a net benefit, the market value of Mercks hedges would have declined by $245.0 million and $194.7 million, respectively, from a uniform 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2009 and 2008. The market value was determined using a foreign exchange option pricing model and holding all factors except exchange rates constant. Because Merck principally uses purchased local currency put options, a uniform weakening of the U.S. dollar will yield the largest overall potential loss in the market value of these options. The sensitivity measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not affect other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 97 Table of Contents 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near term changes in Mercks major foreign currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency of the Companys foreign subsidiaries, the primary objective of the balance sheet risk management program is to protect the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency denominated net monetary assets from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange that might occur prior to their conversion to U.S. dollars. In these instances, Merck principally utilizes forward exchange contracts, which enable the Company to buy and sell foreign currencies in the future at fixed exchange rates and economically offset the consequences of changes in foreign exchange on the amount of U.S. dollar cash flows derived from the net assets. Where the U.S. dollar is not the functional currency of the Companys foreign subsidiaries, Merck executes spot trades to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars based on short term forecast needs. These U.S. dollar proceeds are then invested until required by the Companys foreign subsidiaries. Merck routinely enters into contracts to offset the effects of exchange on exposures denominated in developed country currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. For exposures in developing country currencies, the Company will enter into forward contracts to partially offset the effects of exchange on exposures when it is deemed economical to do so based on a cost benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate and the cost of the hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the effect of exchange on monetary assets and liabilities by managing operating activities and net asset positions at the local level. When applicable, the Company uses forward contracts to hedge the changes in fair value of certain foreign currency denominated available for sale securities attributable to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar on foreign currency denominated derivatives, investments and monetary assets and liabilities indicated that if the U.S. dollar uniformly strengthened by 10% against all currency exposures of the Company at December 31, 2009, Income before taxes would have declined by $11.4 million in 2009. Because the Company is in a net long position relative to its major foreign currencies after consideration of forward contracts, a uniform strengthening of the U.S. dollar will yield the largest overall potential net loss in earnings due to exchange. At December 31, 2008, Old Merck was in a net short position relative to its major foreign currencies after consideration of forward contracts, therefore a uniform 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar would have reduced Income before taxes by $15.8 million. This measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not affect other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near term changes in Mercks major foreign currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The Venezuelan economy was recently determined to be hyperinflationary which requires the Company to remeasure its local currency operations there to U.S. dollars. Accordingly, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company will remeasure its monetary assets and liabilities for those operations in earnings in the first quarter. Effective January 11, 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency from BsF at 2.15 per U.S. dollar to a two tiered official exchange rate at (1) the essentials rate at BsF 2.60 per U.S. dollar and (2) the non essentials rate at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. The Companys products are expected to be classified as essentials and anticipates that the majority of its transactions will be settled at the essential rate of BsF 2.60 per U.S. dollar. These actions will have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Interest Rate Risk Management In addition to the revenue hedging and balance sheet risk management programs, the Company may use interest rate swap contracts on certain investing and borrowing transactions to manage its net exposure to interest rate changes and to reduce its overall cost of borrowing. The Company does not use leveraged swaps and, in general, does not leverage any of its investment activities that would put principal capital at risk. At December 31, 2009, the Company was a party to seven pay floating, receive fixed interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges of fixed rate notes in which the notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed rate notes. There are two swaps maturing in 2011 with notional amounts of $125 million each that effectively convert the Companys $250 million, 5.125% fixed rate notes due 2011 to floating rate instruments and five swaps maturing in 2015 with notional amounts of $150 million each that effectively convert $750 million of the Companys $1.0 billion, 4.0% fixed rate notes due 2015 to floating rate instruments. The fair value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate are recorded in interest expense and offset by the fair value changes in the swap 98 Table of Contents contracts. In 2008, Old Merck terminated four interest rate swap contracts with notional amounts of $250 million each, and terminated one interest rate swap contract with a notional amount of $500 million. These swaps had effectively converted its $1.0 billion, 4.75% fixed rate notes due 2015 and its $500 million, 4.375% fixed rate notes due 2013 to variable rate debt. As a result of the swap terminations, Old Merck received $128.3 million in cash, excluding accrued interest which was not material. The corresponding gains related to the basis adjustment of the debt associated with the terminated swap contracts were deferred and are being amortized as a reduction of interest expense over the remaining term of the notes. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The Companys investment portfolio includes cash equivalents and short term investments, the market values of which are not significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The market value of the Companys medium to long term fixed rate investments is modestly affected by changes in U.S. interest rates. Changes in medium to long term U.S. interest rates have a more significant impact on the market value of the Companys fixed rate borrowings, which generally have longer maturities. A sensitivity analysis to measure potential changes in the market value of Mercks investments, debt and related swap contracts from a change in interest rates indicated that a one percentage point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2009 and 2008 would have positively affected the net aggregate market value of these instruments by $990.1 million and $98.9 million, respectively. A one percentage point decrease at December 31, 2009 and 2008 would have negatively affected the net aggregate market value by $1,152.7 million and $156.3 million, respectively. The increased sensitivity to interest rate movements from the prior year is attributable to the sale or redemption of long term fixed rate investments to fund the merger, as well as an increase in debt, which included existing Schering Plough debt as well as debt issued in 2009 to fund the Merger. The fair value of Mercks debt was determined using pricing models reflecting one percentage point shifts in the appropriate yield curves. The fair values of the Mercks investments were determined using a combination of pricing and duration models. Critical Accounting Policies and Other Matters The Companys consolidated financial statements include certain amounts that are based on managements best estimates and judgments. Estimates are used when accounting for amounts recorded in connection with mergers and acquisitions, including fair value determinations of assets and liabilities. Additionally, estimates are used in determining such items as provisions for sales discounts and returns, depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of inventories, including those produced in preparation for product launches, amounts recorded for contingencies, environmental liabilities and other reserves, pension and other postretirement benefit plan assumptions, share based compensation assumptions, restructuring costs, impairments of long lived assets (including intangible assets and goodwill) and investments, and taxes on income. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Application of the following accounting policies result in accounting estimates having the potential for the most significant impact on the financial statements. Mergers and Acquisitions On January 1, 2009, new guidance issued by the FASB was adopted which changes the way in which the acquisition method is to be applied in a business combination and also changes the way assets and liabilities are recognized in purchase accounting on a prospective basis. The acquisition method of accounting requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values with limited exceptions. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies are recognized at fair value if fair value can reasonably be estimated. If the acquisition date fair value of an asset acquired or liability assumed that arises from a contingency cannot be determined, the asset or liability is recognized if probable and reasonably estimable; if these criteria are not met, no asset or liability is recognized. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Accordingly, the Company may be required to value assets at fair value measures that do not reflect the Companys intended use of those assets. Any excess of the purchase price (consideration transferred) over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Transaction costs and costs to restructure the acquired company are expensed as incurred. If the Company determines the asset acquired does not meet the definition of a business under the acquisition method of accounting, the transaction will 99 Table of Contents be accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than a business combination, and therefore, no goodwill will be recorded. The fair value of intangible assets, including acquired in process research and development, is based on significant judgments made by management, and accordingly, for significant items, the Company typically obtains assistance from third party valuation specialists. Amounts are allocated to acquired in process research and development are capitalized and accounted for similar to indefinite lived intangible assets, subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the projects. Upon successful completion of each project, Merck will make a separate determination as to the then useful life of the asset and begin amortization. The valuations and useful life assumptions are based on information available near the merger or acquisition date and are based on expectations and assumptions that are deemed reasonable by management. The judgments made in determining estimated fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially affect the Companys results of operations. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to currently marketed products and product rights are primarily determined by using an income approach, through which fair value is estimated based on each assets discounted projected net cash flows. The Companys estimates of market participant net cash flows consider historical and projected pricing, margins and expense levels; the performance of competing products where applicable; relevant industry and therapeutic area growth drivers and factors; current and expected trends in technology and product life cycles; the time and investment that will be required to develop products and technologies; the ability to obtain marketing and regulatory approvals; the ability to manufacture and commercialize the products; the extent and timing of potential new product introductions by the Companys competitors; and the life of each assets underlying patent, if any. The net cash flows are then probability adjusted where appropriate to consider the uncertainties associated with the underlying assumptions, as well as the risk profile of the net cash flows utilized in the valuation. The probability adjusted future net cash flows of each product are then discounted to present value utilizing an appropriate discount rate. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to IPRD are determined using an income approach, through which fair value is estimated based on each assets probability adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the different stages of development of each product and the associated probability of successful completion. The net cash flows are then discounted to present value using an appropriate discount rate. Revenue Recognition Revenues from sales of products are recognized at the time of delivery and when title and risk of loss passes to the customer. Recognition of revenue also requires reasonable assurance of collection of sales proceeds and completion of all performance obligations. Domestically, sales discounts are issued to customers as direct discounts at the point of sale or indirectly through an intermediary wholesaler, known as chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of return under certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for sales discounts and returns, which are established at the time of sale. The provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts covers chargebacks and rebates. Chargebacks are discounts that occur when a contracted customer purchases directly through an intermediary wholesaler. The contracted customer generally purchases product at its contracted price plus a mark up from the wholesaler. The wholesaler, in turn, charges the Company back for the difference between the price initially paid by the wholesaler and the contract price paid to the wholesaler by the customer. The provision for chargebacks is based on expected sell through levels by the Companys wholesale customers to contracted customers, as well as estimated wholesaler inventory levels. Rebates are amounts owed based upon definitive contractual agreements or legal requirements with private sector and public sector (Medicaid and Medicare Part D) benefit providers, after the final dispensing of the product by a pharmacy to a benefit plan participant. The provision is based on expected payments, which are driven by patient usage and contract performance by the benefit provider customers. The Company uses historical customer segment mix, adjusted for other known events, in order to estimate the expected provision. Amounts accrued for aggregate indirect customer discounts are evaluated on a quarterly basis through comparison of information provided by the wholesalers, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other customers to the amounts accrued. Adjustments are recorded when trends or significant events indicate that a change in the estimated provision is appropriate. 100 Table of Contents The Company continually monitors its provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts. There were no material adjustments to estimates associated with the aggregate indirect customer discount provision in 2009, 2008 or 2007. Summarized information about changes in the aggregate indirect customer discount accrual is as follows: ($ in millions) 2009 2008 Balance, January 1 $ 616.3 $ 699.4 Current provision 2,541.9 2,037.5 Schering Plough accrual assumed in the Merger 584.1 Adjustments to prior years (22.3 ) (13.7 ) Payments (2,347.4 ) (2,106.9 ) Balance, December 31 $ 1,372.6 $ 616.3 Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct reduction to accounts receivable and accruals for rebates as current liabilities. The accrued balances relative to these provisions included in Accounts receivable and Accrued and other current liabilities were $115.0 million and $1,257.6 million, respectively, at December 31, 2009 and $55.6 million and $560.7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008. The Company maintains a returns policy that allows its customers to return product within a specified period prior to and subsequent to the expiration date (generally, three to six months before and twelve months after product expiration). The estimate of the provision for returns is based upon historical experience with actual returns. Additionally, the Company considers factors such as levels of inventory in the distribution channel, product dating and expiration period, whether products have been discontinued, entrance in the market of additional generic competition, changes in formularies or launch of over the counter products, among others. The product returns provision, as well as actual returns, were less than 1.0% of net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007. Through its distribution programs with U.S. wholesalers, the Company encourages wholesalers to align purchases with underlying demand and maintain inventories below specified levels. The terms of the programs allow the wholesalers to earn fees upon providing visibility into their inventory levels as well as by achieving certain performance parameters, such as, inventory management, customer service levels, reducing shortage claims and reducing product returns. Information provided through the wholesaler distribution programs includes items such as sales trends, inventory on hand, on order quantity and product returns. Wholesalers generally provide only the above mentioned data to the Company, as there is no regulatory requirement to report lot level information to manufacturers, which is the level of information needed to determine the remaining shelf life and original sale date of inventory. Given current wholesaler inventory levels, which are generally less than a month, the Company believes that collection of order lot information across all wholesale customers would have limited use in estimating sales discounts and returns. Inventories Produced in Preparation for Product Launches The Company capitalizes inventories produced in preparation for product launches sufficient to support estimated initial market demand. Typically, capitalization of such inventory does not begin until the related product candidates are in Phase III clinical trials and are considered to have a high probability of regulatory approval. The Company monitors the status of each respective product within the regulatory approval process; however, the Company generally does not disclose specific timing for regulatory approval. If the Company is aware of any specific risks or contingencies other than the normal regulatory approval process or if there are any specific issues identified during the research process relating to safety, efficacy, manufacturing, marketing or labeling, the related inventory would generally not be capitalized. Expiry dates of the inventory are affected by the stage of completion. The Company manages the levels of inventory at each stage to optimize the shelf life of the inventory in relation to anticipated market demand in order to avoid product expiry issues. For inventories that are capitalized, anticipated future sales and shelf lives support the realization of the inventory value as the inventory shelf life is sufficient to meet initial product launch requirements. Inventories produced in preparation for product launches capitalized at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were not significant. 101 Table of Contents Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business, including product liability, intellectual property and commercial litigation, as well as additional matters such as antitrust actions. (See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.) The Company records accruals for contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These accruals are adjusted periodically as assessments change or additional information becomes available. For product liability claims, a portion of the overall accrual is actuarially determined and considers such factors as past experience, number of claims reported and estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Individually significant contingent losses are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. As of December 31, 2008, Old Merck had an aggregate reserve of approximately $4.379 billion (the Vioxx Reserve) for the Settlement Program and future legal defense costs worldwide related to (i) the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, (ii) the Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits, (iii) the Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the Vioxx Investigations (collectively, the Vioxx Litigation) (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). During 2009, Merck spent approximately $244 million in the aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide, including approximately $54 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, related to the Vioxx Litigation. In addition, during 2009, Old Merck paid an additional $4.1 billion into the settlement funds in connection with the Settlement Program. Also, during 2009, Merck recorded charges of $75 million, including $35 million in the fourth quarter, solely for its future legal defense costs for the Vioxx Litigation. Consequently, as of December 31, 2009, the aggregate amount of the Vioxx Reserve was approximately $110 million, which is solely for future legal defense costs for the Vioxx Litigation. Some of the significant factors considered in the review of the Vioxx Reserve were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company; the development of the Companys legal defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of the Vioxx Litigation, including the Settlement Agreement and the expectation that certain lawsuits will continue to be pending; the number of cases being brought against the Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most current information regarding anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre trial activities and trials in the Vioxx Litigation. The amount of the Vioxx Reserve as of December 31, 2009 represents the Companys best estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs to be incurred in connection with the remaining aspects of the Vioxx Litigation; however, events such as additional trials in the Vioxx Litigation and other events that could arise in the course of the Vioxx Litigation could affect the ultimate amount of defense costs to be incurred by the Company. The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves and may determine to increase the Vioxx Reserve at any time in the future if, based upon the factors set forth, it believes it would be appropriate to do so. There are two U.S. Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits trials scheduled for 2010. The Company cannot predict the timing of any other trials related to the Vioxx Litigation. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the Vioxx Lawsuits and will vigorously defend against them. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the claimants seek indeterminate damages, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits not included in the Settlement Program. The Company has not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the Vioxx Lawsuits not included in the Settlement Program, other than a reserve established in connection with the resolution of the shareholder derivative lawsuits (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements), or the Vioxx Investigations. Unfavorable outcomes in the Vioxx Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, liquidity and results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, the Old Merck had a remaining reserve of approximately $33 million solely for its future legal defense costs for the Fosamax Litigation. During 2009, Merck spent approximately $35 million and added $40 million to its reserve. Consequently, as of December 31, 2009, the Company had a reserve of approximately $38 million solely for its future legal defense costs for the Fosamax Litigation. Some of the significant factors considered in the establishment of the reserve for the Fosamax Litigation legal defense costs were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company thus far; the development of the Companys legal defense strategy and structure in light of the creation of the Fosamax multidistrict litigation; the number of cases being brought against the Company; and the anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre trial activities in the 102 Table of Contents Fosamax Litigation. The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves. Due to the uncertain nature of litigation, the Company is unable to estimate its costs beyond the third quarter of 2010. The Company has not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the Fosamax Litigation. Unfavorable outcomes in the Fosamax Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, liquidity and results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents. When a legitimate claim for contribution is asserted, a liability is initially accrued based upon the estimated transaction costs to manage the site. Accruals are adjusted as site investigations, feasibility studies and related cost assessments of remedial techniques are completed, and as the extent to which other potentially responsible parties who may be jointly and severally liable can be expected to contribute is determined. The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites and takes an active role in identifying and providing for these costs. In the past, Old Merck performed a worldwide survey to assess all sites for potential contamination resulting from past industrial activities. Where assessment indicated that physical investigation was warranted, such investigation was performed, providing a better evaluation of the need for remedial action. Where such need was identified, remedial action was then initiated. As definitive information became available during the course of investigations and or remedial efforts at each site, estimates were refined and accruals were established or adjusted accordingly. These estimates and related accruals continue to be refined annually. A similar process is being followed for legacy Schering Plough sites. The Company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $16.6 million in 2009, and are estimated at $55 million for the years 2010 through 2014. In managements opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $161.8 million and $89.5 million at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not consider potential recoveries from other parties and will be paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next 15 years. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $170.0 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. Share Based Compensation The Company expenses all share based payment awards to employees, including grants of stock options, over the requisite service period based on the grant date fair value of the awards. The Company determines the fair value of certain share based awards using the Black Scholes option pricing model which uses both historical and current market data to estimate the fair value. This method incorporates various assumptions such as the risk free interest rate, expected volatility, expected dividend yield and expected life of the options. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans Net pension and other postretirement benefit cost totaled $511.1 million in 2009, $376.6 million in 2008 and $489.3 million in 2007. The increase in 2009 as compared with 2008 is primarily due to $118.2 million of costs associated with Schering Plough benefit plans from the date of the Merger through December 31, 2009. The decrease in 2008 as compared with 2007 is primarily due to the lower amortization of actuarial net losses and higher expected return on plan assets which were partially offset by an increase in termination benefits attributable to restructuring actions. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan information for financial reporting purposes is calculated using actuarial assumptions including a discount rate for plan benefit obligations and an expected rate of return on plan assets. The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. For both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans, the discount rate is evaluated on measurement dates and modified to reflect the 103 Table of Contents prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high quality fixed income debt instruments that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligation as they come due. At December 31, 2009, the discount rates for the Companys U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans ranged from 4.60% to 6.00% compared with a range of 6.00% to 6.40% at December 31, 2008. The expected rate of return for both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans represents the average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits included in the benefit obligation are to be paid. In developing the expected rate of return, the Company considers long term compound annualized returns of historical market data as well as actual returns on the Companys plan assets. Using this reference information, the Company develops forward looking return expectations for each asset category and a weighted average expected long term rate of return for a target portfolio allocated across these investment categories. The expected portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active management as appropriate. As a result of this analysis, for 2010, the Companys expected rate of return will range from 8.00% to 8.75% compared to a range of 7.50% to 8.75% in 2009 for its U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The Company has established investment guidelines for its U.S. pension and other postretirement plans to create an asset allocation that is expected to deliver a rate of return sufficient to meet the long term obligation of each plan, given an acceptable level of risk. The target investment portfolio of the Companys U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans is allocated 45% to 60% in U.S. equities, 20% to 30% in international equities, 15% to 25% in fixed income investments, and up to 8% in cash and other investments. The portfolios equity weighting is consistent with the long term nature of the plans benefit obligations. The expected annual standard deviation of returns of the target portfolio, which approximates 13%, reflects both the equity allocation and the diversification benefits among the asset classes in which the portfolio invests. For non U.S. pension plans, the targeted investment portfolio varies based on the duration of pension liabilities and local government rules and regulations. Although a significant percentage of plan assets are invested in U.S. equities, concentration risk is mitigated through the use of strategies that are diversified within management guidelines. Actuarial assumptions are based upon managements best estimates and judgment. A reasonably possible change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $54.3 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on its net pension and postretirement benefit cost. A reasonably possible change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the expected rate of return assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $23.9 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on its net pension and postretirement benefit cost. Required funding obligations for 2010 relating to the Companys pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material. The preceding hypothetical changes in the discount rate and expected rate of return assumptions would not impact the Companys funding requirements. Net loss amounts, which reflect experience differentials primarily relating to differences between expected and actual returns on plan assets as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recorded as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income. Expected returns for pension plans are based on a calculated market related value of assets. Under this methodology, asset gains/losses resulting from actual returns that differ from the Companys expected returns are recognized in the market related value of assets ratably over a five year period. Also, net loss amounts in Accumulated other comprehensive income in excess of certain thresholds are amortized into net pension and other postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining service life of employees. Amortization of net losses for the Companys U.S. plans at December 31, 2009 is expected to increase net pension and other postretirement benefit cost by approximately $53 million annually from 2010 through 2014. Restructuring Costs Restructuring costs have been recorded in connection with restructuring programs designed to reduce the cost structure, increase efficiency and enhance competitiveness. As a result, the Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its future plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs to be incurred when the restructuring actions take place. In connection with these actions, management also assesses the recoverability of long lived assets employed in the business. In certain instances, asset lives have been shortened based on changes in the expected useful lives of the affected assets. Severance and other related costs are reflected within Restructuring costs. Asset related charges are reflected within Materials and production costs and Research and development expenses depending upon the nature of the asset. 104 Table of Contents Impairments of Long Lived Assets The Company assesses changes in economic, regulatory and legal conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows in evaluating the value of the Companys property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company periodically evaluates whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of its long lived assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows of these assets, or appropriate asset groupings, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If the asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the assets fair value and its carrying value. If quoted market prices are not available, the Company will estimate fair value using a discounted value of estimated future cash flows approach. The Company tests its goodwill for impairment at least annually using a fair value based test. Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets of businesses purchased and is assigned to reporting units. Other acquired intangibles (excluding in process research and development) are recorded at fair value and amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. When events or circumstances warrant a review, the Company will assess recoverability from future operations using pretax undiscounted cash flows derived from the lowest appropriate asset groupings. Impairments are recognized in operating results to the extent that the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, which is determined based on the net present value of estimated cash flows. The Company tests its indefinite lived intangibles, including in process research and development, for impairment at least annually, through a one step test that compares the fair value of the indefinite lived intangible asset with the assets carrying value. For impairment testing purposes, the Company may combine separately recorded indefinite lived intangible assets into one unit of account based on the relevant facts and circumstances. Generally, the Company will combine indefinite lived intangible assets for testing purposes if they operate as a single asset and are essentially inseparable. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized within the Companys operating results. Impairments of Investments The Company reviews its investments for impairments based on the determination of whether the decline in market value of the investment below the carrying value is other than temporary. The Company considers available evidence in evaluating potential impairments of its investments, including the duration and extent to which fair value is less than cost, and for equity securities, the Companys ability and intent to hold the investments. On April 1, 2009, new authoritative guidance from the FASB was adopted which amended the other than temporary recognition guidance for debt securities. Pursuant to this new guidance, an other than temporary impairment has occurred if the Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. If the Company does not intend to sell the impaired debt security, and it is not more likely than not it will be required to sell the debt security before the recovery of its amortized cost basis, the amount of the other than temporary impairment recognized in earnings is limited to the portion attributed to credit loss. The remaining portion of the other than temporary impairment related to other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income. Taxes on Income The Companys effective tax rate is based on pretax income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. An estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to the Companys quarterly operating results. In the event that there is a significant unusual or one time item recognized, or expected to be recognized, in the Companys quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item would be separately calculated and recorded at the same time as the unusual or one time item. The Company considers the resolution of prior year tax matters to be such items. Significant judgment is required in determining the Companys tax provision and in evaluating its tax positions. The recognition and measurement of a tax position is based on managements best judgment given the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. The Company evaluates tax positions to determine whether the benefits of tax positions are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit based on the technical merits of the tax 105 Table of Contents position. For tax positions that are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company recognizes the largest amount of the benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement in the financial statements. For tax positions that are not more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company does not recognize any portion of the benefit in the financial statements. If the more likely than not threshold is not met in the period for which a tax position is taken, the Company may subsequently recognize the benefit of that tax position if the tax matter is effectively settled, the statute of limitations expires, or if the more likely than not threshold is met in a subsequent period. (See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.) Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. Timing differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the tax return in future years for which the Company has already recorded the tax benefit in the financial statements. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial statements for which payment has been deferred or expense for which the Company has already taken a deduction on the tax return, but has not yet recognized as expense in the financial statements. At December 31, 2009, foreign earnings of $31.2 billion have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary companies for reinvestment, therefore no provision has been made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In June 2009, the FASB issued an amendment to the accounting and disclosure requirements for transfers of financial assets, which is effective January 1, 2010. The amendment eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity, changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets and requires enhanced disclosures to provide financial statement users with greater transparency about transfers of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and an entitys continuing involvement in and exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets. The effect of adoption on the Companys financial position and results of operations is not expected to be material. Also in June 2009, the FASB amended the existing accounting and disclosure guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities, which is effective January 1, 2010. The amended guidance requires enhanced disclosures intended to provide users of financial statements with more transparent information about an enterprises involvement in a variable interest entity. The effect of adoption on the Companys financial position and results of operations is not expected to be material. In October 2009, the FASB issued new guidance for revenue recognition with multiple deliverables, which is effective for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, although early adoption is permitted. This guidance eliminates the residual method under the current guidance and replaces it with the relative selling price method when allocating revenue in a multiple deliverable arrangement. The selling price for each deliverable shall be determined using vendor specific objective evidence of selling price, if it exists, otherwise third party evidence of selling price shall be used. If neither exists for a deliverable, the vendor shall use its best estimate of the selling price for that deliverable. After adoption, this guidance will also require expanded qualitative and quantitative disclosures. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adoption on its financial position and results of operations. In January 2010, the FASB amended the existing disclosure guidance on fair value measurements, which is effective January 1, 2010, except for disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, which is effective January 1, 2011. Among other things, the updated guidance requires additional disclosure for the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 measurements and requires certain Level 3 disclosures on a gross basis. Additionally, the updates amend existing guidance to require a greater level of disaggregated information and more robust disclosures about valuation techniques and inputs to fair value measurements. Since the amended guidance requires only additional disclosures, the adoption will not affect the Companys financial position or results of operations. 106 Table of Contents Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results This report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company may contain so called forward looking statements, all of which are based on managements current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. One can identify these forward looking statements by their use of words such as expects, plans, will, estimates, forecasts, projects and other words of similar meaning. One can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to address the Companys growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential and development programs. One must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the Companys forward looking statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. No forward looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. The Company does not assume the obligation to update any forward looking statement. One should carefully evaluate such statements in light of factors, including risk factors, described in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, especially on Forms 10 K, 10 Q and 8 K. In Item 1A. Risk Factors of this annual report on Form 10 K the Company discusses in more detail various important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historic results. The Company notes these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. One should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under Financial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 107 Table of Contents 
 
