Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non GAAP Income and Non GAAP EPS below). In December 2010, Merck announced that its Board of Directors had elected Kenneth C. Frazier, then Mercks president, as chief executive officer and president, as well as a member of the board, effective January 1, 2011. Mr. Frazier succeeds Richard T. Clark, who will continue to serve as chairman of the board. 5 Product Sales Sales(1) of the Companys products were as follows: Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Pharmaceutical: Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology Singulair $ 4,987 $ 4,660 $ 4,337 Remicade 2,714 431 Nasonex 1,220 165 Fosamax 926 1,100 1,553 Clarinex 659 101 Arcoxia 398 358 377 Proventil 210 26 Asmanex 208 37 Cardiovascular Zetia 2,297 403 6 Vytorin 2,014 441 84 Integrilin 266 46 Diabetes and Obesity Januvia 2,385 1,922 1,397 Janumet 954 658 351 Diversified Brands Cozaar/Hyzaar 2,104 3,561 3,558 Zocor 468 558 660 Propecia 447 440 429 Claritin Rx 420 71 Vasotec/Vaseretic 255 311 357 Remeron 223 38 Proscar 216 291 324 Infectious Disease Isentress 1,090 752 361 PegIntron 737 149 Cancidas 611 617 596 Primaxin 610 689 760 Invanz 362 293 265 Avelox 316 66 Rebetol 221 36 Crixivan/Stocrin 206 206 275 Neurosciences and Ophthalmology Maxalt 550 575 529 Cosopt/Trusopt 484 503 781 Subutex/Suboxone 111 36 Oncology Temodar 1,065 188 Emend 378 317 264 Caelyx 284 47 Intron A 209 38 Vaccines(2) ProQuad/M M R II/Varivax 1,378 1,369 1,268 Gardasil 988 1,118 1,403 RotaTeq 519 522 665 Pneumovax 376 346 249 Zostavax 243 277 312 Womens Health and Endocrine NuvaRing 559 88 Follistim AQ 528 96 Implanon 236 37 Cerazette 209 35 Other pharmaceutical(3) 4,170 1,218 920 Total Pharmaceutical segment sales 39,811 25,236 22,081 Other segment sales(4) 5,578 2,114 1,694 Total segment sales 45,389 27,350 23,775 Other(5) 598 78 75 $ 45,987 $ 27,428 $ 23,850 (1) Sales of legacy Schering Plough products reflect results for 2010 and the post Merger period in 2009. In addition, prior to the Merger, substantially all sales of Zetia and Vytorin were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is wholly owned by the Company; accordingly, all sales of MSP Partnership products after the Merger are reflected in the table above. Sales of Zetia and Vytorin in 2008 reflect Old Mercks sales of these products in Latin America which was not part of the MSP Partnership. (2) These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Companys joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the results of which are reflected in Equity income from affiliates. These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD. (3) Other pharmaceutical primarily reflects sales of other human pharmaceutical products, including products within the franchises not listed separately. (4) Reflects other non reportable segments including Animal Health and Consumer Care, and revenue from the Companys relationship with AZLP primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. Revenue from AZLP was $1.3 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.6 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (5) Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, third party manufacturing sales, sales related to divested products or businesses and other supply sales not included in segment results. 6 Pharmaceutical The Companys pharmaceutical products include therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. Among these are: Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology: Singulair; Remicade; Nasonex; Fosamax; Clarinex; Arcoxia (etoricoxib) for the treatment of arthritis and pain; Asmanex Twisthaler (mometasone furoate inhalation powder), an oral dry powder corticosteroid inhaler for first line maintenance treatment of asthma in patients 4 and older; and Proventil HFA (albuterol sulfate) inhalation aerosol for the relief of bronchospasm in patients 12 years or older. Cardiovascular: Zetia (marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States); Vytorin (marketed as Inegy outside the United States); and Integrilin (eptifibatide) Injection, a platelet receptor GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor for the treatment of patients with acute coronary syndrome and those undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention in the United States, as well as for the prevention of early myocardial infarction in patients with acute coronary syndrome in most countries. Diabetes and Obesity: Januvia and Janumet for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Diversified Brands: Cozaar; Hyzaar; Zocor; Propecia (finasteride), a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss; Claritin Rx; Vasotec (enalapril maleate) and Vaseretic (enalapril maleate hydrochlorothiazide), hypertension and or heart failure products; Proscar (finasteride), a urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement; and Remeron (mirtazapine), an antidepressant. Infectious Disease: Isentress; PegIntron; Primaxin (imipenem and cilastatin sodium); Cancidas (caspofungin acetate), an anti fungal product; Invanz (ertapenem sodium) for the treatment of certain infections; Avelox (moxifloxacin), which the Company only markets in the United States, a broad spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic for certain respiratory and skin infections; Rebetol (ribavirin, USP) Capsules and Oral Solution for use in combination with PegIntron or Intron A (interferon alpha 2b, recombinant) for treating chronic hepatitis C; and Crixivan (indinavir sulfate) and Stocrin (efavirenz), antiretroviral therapies for the treatment of HIV infection. Neurosciences and Ophthalmology: Maxalt (rizatriptan benzoate), a product for acute treatment of migraine; and Cosopt (dorzolamide hydrochloride and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution) and Trusopt (dorzolamide hydrochloride ophthalmic solution). Oncology: Temodar; Emend (aprepitant) for the prevention of chemotherapy induced and post operative nausea and vomiting; and Intron A for Injection, marketed for chronic hepatitis B and C and numerous anticancer indications worldwide, including as adjuvant therapy for malignant melanoma. Vaccines: ProQuad (Measles, Mumps, Rubella and Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a pediatric combination vaccine to help prevent measles, mumps, rubella and varicella; M M R II (Measles, Mumps and Rubella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent measles, mumps and rubella; Varivax (Varicella Virus Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella); Gardasil; RotaTeq (Rotavirus Vaccine, Live, Oral, Pentavalent), a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children; Pneumovax (pneumococcal vaccine polyvalent), a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease; and Zostavax (Zoster Vaccine Live), a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster) in patients aged 60 or older. Womens Health and Endocrine: NuvaRing (etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring), a vaginal contraceptive ring; Follistim AQ (follitropin beta injection), a fertility treatment; Implanon (etonogestrel implant), a single rod subdermal contraceptive implant; and Cerazette, a progestin only oral contraceptive. Animal Health The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets animal health products, including vaccines. Principal marketed products in this segment include: Livestock Products: Nuflor antibiotic range for use in cattle and swine; Bovilis/Vista vaccine lines for infectious diseases in cattle; Banamine bovine and swine anti inflammatory; Estrumate for treatment of fertility disorders in cattle; Regumate/Matrix fertility management for swine and horses; Resflor combination broad spectrum antibiotic and non steroidal anti inflammatory drug for bovine respiratory disease; Zilmax and Revalor to 7 improve production efficiencies in beef cattle; M+Pac swine pneumonia vaccine; and Porcilis vaccine line for infectious diseases in swine. Poultry Products: Nobilis/Innovax, vaccine lines for poultry; and Paracox and Coccivac coccidiosis vaccines. Companion Animal Products: Nobivac/Continuum vaccine lines for flexible dog and cat vaccination; Otomax/Mometamax/Posatex ear ointments for acute and chronic otitis; Caninsulin/Vetsulin diabetes mellitus treatment for dogs and cats; Panacur/Safeguard broad spectrum anthelmintic (de wormer) for use in many animals; and Scalibor/Exspot for protecting against bites from fleas, ticks, mosquitoes and sandflies. Aquaculture Products: Slice parasiticide for sea lice in salmon; Aquavac/Norvax vaccines against bacterial and viral disease in fish; Compact PD vaccine for salmon; and Aquaflor antibiotic for farm raised fish. Consumer Care The Consumer Care segment develops, manufactures and markets over the counter, foot care and sun care products. Principal products in this segment include: Over the Counter Products: Claritin non drowsy antihistamines; MiraLAX treatment for occasional constipation; Coricidin HBP decongestant free cold/flu medicine for people with high blood pressure; Afrin nasal decongestant spray; and Zegerid OTC treatment for frequent heartburn. Foot Care: Dr. Scholls foot care products; Lotrimin topical antifungal products; and Tinactin topical antifungal products and foot and sneaker odor/wetness products. Sun Care: Coppertone sun care lotions, sprays and dry oils; and Solarcaine sunburn relief products. For a further discussion of sales of the Companys products, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. Product Approvals In June 2010, the FDA approved Dulera Inhalation Aerosol, a new fixed dose combination asthma treatment for patients 12 years of age and older. Dulera combines an inhaled corticosteroid with a long acting beta2 agonist. In September 2010, the intravenous formulation of Brinavess was granted marketing approval in the EU, Iceland and Norway for the rapid conversion of recent onset atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm in adults: for non surgery patients with atrial fibrillation of seven days or less and for post cardiac surgery patients with atrial fibrillation of three days or less. Brinavess acts preferentially in the atria and is the first product in a new class of pharmacologic agents for cardioversion of atrial fibrillation to launch in the EU. In April 2009, Cardiome Pharma Corp. and Merck announced a collaboration and license agreement for the development and commercialization of vernakalant. The agreement provides Merck exclusive rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico to vernakalant intravenous formulation. In August 2009, the FDA approved Saphris (asenapine) for the acute treatment of schizophrenia in adults and for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder with or without psychotic features in adults. In September 2010, two sNDAs for Saphris were approved in the United States to expand the products indications to the treatment of schizophrenia in adults, as monotherapy for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults, and as adjunctive therapy with either lithium or valproate for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults. In September 2010, asenapine, to be sold under the brand name Sycrest, received marketing approval in the EU for the treatment of moderate to severe manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults; the marketing approval did not include an indication for schizophrenia. The marketing approval applies to all EU member states. In October 2010, Merck and H. Lundbeck A/S (Lundbeck) announced a worldwide commercialization agreement for Sycrest sublingual tablets (5 mg, 10 mg). Under the terms of the agreement, Lundbeck paid a fee and will make product supply payments in exchange for exclusive commercial rights to Sycrest in all markets outside the United States, China and Japan. Merck will retain exclusive commercial rights to asenapine in the United States, China and Japan. Concurrently, Merck is continuing to pursue regulatory approval for asenapine in other parts of the world. 8 Joint Ventures AstraZeneca LP In 1982, Old Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB (Astra) to develop and market Astra products in the United States. In 1994, Old Merck and Astra formed an equally owned joint venture that developed and marketed most of Astras new prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec (omeprazole), the first in a class of medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining. In 1998, Old Merck and Astra restructured the joint venture whereby Old Merck acquired Astras interest in the joint venture, renamed KBI Inc. (KBI), and contributed KBIs operating assets to a new U.S. limited partnership named Astra Pharmaceuticals, L.P. (the Partnership), in exchange for a 1% limited partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP (AZLP) upon Astras 1999 merger with Zeneca Group Plc (the AstraZeneca merger), became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI retained rights. The Company earns certain Partnership returns as well as ongoing revenue based on sales of current and future KBI products. The Partnership returns include a priority return provided for in the Partnership Agreement, variable returns based, in part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a preferential return representing the Companys share of undistributed Partnership AZLP generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) earnings. The AstraZeneca merger triggered a partial redemption in March 2008 of Old Mercks interest in certain AZLP product rights. Upon this redemption, Old Merck received $4.3 billion from AZLP. This amount was based primarily on a multiple of Old Mercks average annual variable returns derived from sales of the former Astra USA, Inc. products for the three years prior to the redemption (the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value). Old Merck recorded a $1.5 billion pretax gain on the partial redemption in 2008. The partial redemption of Old Mercks interest in the product rights did not result in a change in Old Mercks 1% limited partnership interest. As described in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below, after certain adjustments, Old Merck recorded an aggregate pretax gain of $2.2 billion in 2008. In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring discussed above, Astra purchased an option (the Asset Option) for a payment of $443 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to buy Old Mercks interest in the KBI products, excluding the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec (the Non PPI Products). In April 2010, AstraZeneca exercised the Asset Option. Merck received $647 million from AstraZeneca representing the net present value as of March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be received by Old Merck from the Non PPI Products (the Appraised Value), which was recorded as a reduction to the Companys investment in AZLP. The Company recognized the $443 million of deferred income in 2010 as a component of Other (income) expense, net. In addition, in 1998, Old Merck granted Astra an option (the Shares Option) to buy Old Mercks common stock interest in KBI and, therefore, Old Mercks interest in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable in 2012. The exercise price for the Shares Option will be based on the net present value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec as determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain true up mechanisms. The Company believes that it is likely that AstraZeneca will exercise the Shares Option. Sanofi Pasteur MSD In 1994, Old Merck and Pasteur Mrieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to market human vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in the then existing EU and the European Free Trade Association. Old Merck and Sanofi Pasteur contributed, among other things, their European vaccine businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as Pasteur Mrieux MSD, S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD, S.N.C.). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or through affiliates or branches, in Belgium, Italy, Germany, Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom and through distributors in the rest of its territory. Johnson JohnsonoMerck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company In 1989, Old Merck formed a joint venture with Johnson Johnson to develop and market a broad range of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50% owned joint venture also includes Canada. Significant 9 joint venture products are Pepcid AC (famotidine), an over the counter form of Old Mercks ulcer medication Pepcid (famotidine), as well as Pepcid Complete, an over the counter product that combines the Companys ulcer medication with antacids (calcium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide). Licenses In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering Plough entered into a licensing agreement with Centocor, a Johnson Johnson company, to market Remicade, which is prescribed for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. In 2005, Schering Ploughs subsidiary exercised an option under its contract with Centocor for license rights to develop and commercialize Simponi, a fully human monoclonal antibody. The Company has exclusive marketing rights to both products outside the United States, Japan and certain other Asian markets. In December 2007, Schering Plough and Centocor revised their distribution agreement regarding the development, commercialization and distribution of both Remicade and Simponi, extending the Companys rights to exclusively market Remicade to match the duration of the Companys exclusive marketing rights for Simponi. In addition, Schering Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain development costs relating to Simponis auto injector delivery system. On October 6, 2009, the European Commission (EC) approved Simponi as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and other immune system disorders in two presentations a novel auto injector and a prefilled syringe. As a result, the Companys marketing rights for both products extend for 15 years from the first commercial sale of Simponi within the EU following the receipt of pricing and reimbursement approval within the EU. After operating expenses and subject to certain adjustments, the Company was entitled to receive an approximate 60% share of profits on the Companys distribution in the Companys marketing territory through December 31, 2009. Beginning in 2010, the Companys share of profits change over time to a 50% share of profits by 2014 for both products and the share of profits will remain fixed thereafter for the remainder of the term. The Company may independently develop and market Simponi for a Crohns disease indication in its territories, with an option for Centocor to participate. Centocor has instituted an arbitration proceeding to terminate this agreement and the Companys rights to distribute these products. See Item 1A. Risk Factors and 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below, after certain adjustments, Old Merck recorded an aggregate pretax gain of $2.2 billion in 2008. In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring discussed above, Astra purchased an option (the Asset Option) for a payment of $443 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to buy Old Mercks interest in the KBI products, excluding the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec (the Non PPI Products). In April 2010, AstraZeneca exercised the Asset Option. Merck received $647 million from AstraZeneca representing the net present value as of March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be received by Old Merck from the Non PPI Products (the Appraised Value), which was recorded as a reduction to the Companys investment in AZLP. The Company recognized the $443 million of deferred income in 2010 as a component of Other (income) expense, net. In addition, in 1998, Old Merck granted Astra an option (the Shares Option) to buy Old Mercks common stock interest in KBI and, therefore, Old Mercks interest in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable in 2012. The exercise price for the Shares Option will be based on the net present value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec as determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain true up mechanisms. The Company believes that it is likely that AstraZeneca will exercise the Shares Option. Sanofi Pasteur MSD In 1994, Old Merck and Pasteur Mrieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) formed a joint venture to market human vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in the then existing EU and the European Free Trade Association. Old Merck and Sanofi Pasteur contributed, among other things, their European vaccine businesses for equal shares in the joint venture, known as Pasteur Mrieux MSD, S.N.C. (now Sanofi Pasteur MSD, S.N.C.). The joint venture maintains a presence, directly or through affiliates or branches, in Belgium, Italy, Germany, Spain, France, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Portugal, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom and through distributors in the rest of its territory. Johnson JohnsonoMerck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company In 1989, Old Merck formed a joint venture with Johnson Johnson to develop and market a broad range of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50% owned joint venture also includes Canada. Significant 9 joint venture products are Pepcid AC (famotidine), an over the counter form of Old Mercks ulcer medication Pepcid (famotidine), as well as Pepcid Complete, an over the counter product that combines the Companys ulcer medication with antacids (calcium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide). Licenses In 1998, a subsidiary of Schering Plough entered into a licensing agreement with Centocor, a Johnson Johnson company, to market Remicade, which is prescribed for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. In 2005, Schering Ploughs subsidiary exercised an option under its contract with Centocor for license rights to develop and commercialize Simponi, a fully human monoclonal antibody. The Company has exclusive marketing rights to both products outside the United States, Japan and certain other Asian markets. In December 2007, Schering Plough and Centocor revised their distribution agreement regarding the development, commercialization and distribution of both Remicade and Simponi, extending the Companys rights to exclusively market Remicade to match the duration of the Companys exclusive marketing rights for Simponi. In addition, Schering Plough and Centocor agreed to share certain development costs relating to Simponis auto injector delivery system. On October 6, 2009, the European Commission (EC) approved Simponi as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and other immune system disorders in two presentations a novel auto injector and a prefilled syringe. As a result, the Companys marketing rights for both products extend for 15 years from the first commercial sale of Simponi within the EU following the receipt of pricing and reimbursement approval within the EU. After operating expenses and subject to certain adjustments, the Company was entitled to receive an approximate 60% share of profits on the Companys distribution in the Companys marketing territory through December 31, 2009. Beginning in 2010, the Companys share of profits change over time to a 50% share of profits by 2014 for both products and the share of profits will remain fixed thereafter for the remainder of the term. The Company may independently develop and market Simponi for a Crohns disease indication in its territories, with an option for Centocor to participate. Centocor has instituted an arbitration proceeding to terminate this agreement and the Companys rights to distribute these products. See Item 1A. Risk Factors and 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report. Merck Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries ($ in millions except per share amounts) 2010(1) 2009(2) 2008(3) 2007(4) 2006(5) Results for Year: Sales $45,987 $27,428 $23,850 $24,198 $22,636 Materials and production costs 18,396 9,019 5,583 6,141 6,001 Marketing and administrative expenses 13,245 8,543 7,377 7,557 8,165 Research and development expenses 10,991 5,845 4,805 4,883 4,783 Restructuring costs 985 1,634 1,033 327 142 Equity income from affiliates (587 ) (2,235 ) (2,561 ) (2,977 ) (2,294 ) Other (income) expense, net 1,304 (10,668 ) (2,318 ) 4,775 (503 ) Income before taxes 1,653 15,290 9,931 3,492 6,342 Taxes on income 671 2,268 1,999 95 1,788 Net income 982 13,022 7,932 3,397 4,554 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 121 123 124 122 120 Net income attributable to Merck Co., Inc. 861 12,899 7,808 3,275 4,434 Basic earnings per common share attributable to Merck Co., Inc. common shareholders $0.28 $5.67 $3.65 $1.51 $2.03 Earnings per common share assuming dilution attributable to Merck Co., Inc. common shareholders $0.28 $5.65 $3.63 $1.49 $2.02 Cash dividends declared 4,730 3,598 3,250 3,311 3,319 Cash dividends paid per common share $1.52 $1.52 (6) $1.52 $1.52 $1.52 Capital expenditures 1,678 1,461 1,298 1,011 980 Depreciation 2,638 1,654 1,445 1,752 2,098 Average common shares outstanding (millions) 3,095 2,268 2,136 2,170 2,178 Average common shares outstanding assuming dilution (millions) 3,120 2,273 2,143 2,190 2,184 Year End Position: Working capital $13,423 $12,791 $4,794 $2,787 $2,508 Property, plant and equipment, net 17,082 18,279 12,000 12,346 13,194 Total assets 105,781 112,314 47,196 48,351 44,570 Long term debt 15,482 16,095 3,943 3,916 5,551 Total equity 56,805 61,485 21,167 20,591 19,966 Year End Statistics: Number of stockholders of record 171,000 175,600 165,700 173,000 184,200 Number of employees 94,000 100,000 55,200 59,800 60,000 (1) Amounts for 2010 include the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, in process research and development impairment charges of $2.4 billion reflected in research and development expenses, the impact of restructuring actions, a reserve related to Vioxx, the gain recognized on AstraZenecas exercise of its option to acquire certain assets from the Company and the favorable impact of certain tax items. In addition, results reflect the unfavorable effects of the implementation of certain provisions of U.S. health care reform legislation which was enacted during 2010. (2) Amounts for 2009 include the impact of the merger with Schering Plough Corporation on November 3, 2009, including the recognition of a gain representing the fair value step up of Mercks previously held interest in the Merck/Schering Plough partnership as a result of obtaining a controlling interest and the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments recorded in the post Merger period. Also included in 2009, is a gain on the sale of Mercks interest in Merial Limited, the favorable impact of certain tax items, the impact of restructuring actions and additional legal defense costs. (3) Amounts for 2008 include a gain on distribution from AstraZeneca LP, a gain related to the sale of the remaining worldwide rights to Aggrastat, the favorable impact of certain tax items, the impact of restructuring actions, additional legal defense costs and an expense for a contribution to the Merck Company Foundation. (4) Amounts for 2007 include the impact of the U.S. Vioxx Settlement Agreement charge, restructuring actions, a civil governmental investigations charge, an insurance arbitration settlement gain, in process research and development expense resulting from an acquisition, additional Vioxx legal defense costs, gains on sales of assets and product divestitures, as well as a net gain on the settlements of certain patent disputes. (5) Amounts for 2006 include the impact of restructuring actions, in process research and development expenses resulting from acquisitions and additional Vioxx legal defense costs. (6) Amount reflects dividends paid to common shareholders of Old Merck. In addition, approximately $144 million of dividends were paid subsequent to the merger with Schering Plough, and $431 million were paid prior to the merger, relating to common stock and preferred stock dividends declared by Schering Plough in 2009. 45 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Description of Mercks Business The Company is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies, animal health, and consumer care products, which it markets directly and through its joint ventures. The Companys operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of four operating segments, which are the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Consumer Care and Alliances segments, and one reportable segment, which is the Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company also has animal health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Additionally, the Company has consumer care operations that develop, manufacture and market over the counter, foot care and sun care products, which are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets in the United States and Canada. On November 3, 2009, Merck Co., Inc. (Old Merck) and Schering Plough Corporation (Schering Plough) merged (the Merger). In the Merger, Schering Plough acquired all of the shares of Old Merck, which became a wholly owned subsidiary of Schering Plough and was renamed Merck Sharp Dohme Corp. Schering Plough continued as the surviving public company and was renamed Merck Co., Inc. (New Merck or the Company). However, for accounting purposes only, the Merger was treated as an acquisition with Old Merck considered the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, the accompanying financial statements reflect Old Mercks stand alone operations as they existed prior to the completion of the Merger. The results of Schering Ploughs business have been included in New Mercks financial statements only for periods subsequent to the completion of the Merger. Therefore, New Mercks financial results for 2009 do not reflect a full year of legacy Schering Plough operations. References in this report and in the accompanying financial statements to Merck for periods prior to the Merger refer to Old Merck and for periods after the completion of the Merger to New Merck. Overview During 2010, the Company made progress driving revenue growth for key products, expanding its global reach including within emerging markets, improving its cost structure, making strategic investments in its business and advancing its late stage pipeline, while continuing the task of integrating the legacy companies post Merger. Sales increased to $46.0 billion in 2010 driven largely by incremental revenue resulting from the inclusion of a full year of results for legacy Schering Plough products such as Remicade, a treatment for inflammatory diseases, Nasonex, an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, Temodar, a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, PegIntron for treating chronic hepatitis C and Clarinex, a non sedating antihistamine, as well as by the inclusion of a full year of results for Zetia and Vytorin, cholesterol modifying medicines. Prior to the Merger, substantially all sales of Zetia and Vytorin were recognized by the Merck/Schering Plough Partnership (the MSP Partnership) and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is wholly owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these products are now reflected in Sales. Additionally, the Company recognized a full year of sales in 2010 from legacy Schering Plough animal health and consumer care products. Sales for 2009 only include revenue from legacy Schering Plough and MSP Partnership products for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Also contributing to the sales increase was growth in Januvia and Janumet for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, Isentress, an antiretroviral therapy for use in combination therapy for the treatment of HIV 1 infection in adult patients, and Singulair, a medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Cozaar 46 and Hyzaar for the treatment of hypertension, which lost patent protection in the United States in April 2010 and in a number of major European markets in March 2010. Revenue was also negatively affected by lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D for the treatment and, in the case of Fosamax, prevention of osteoporosis, which have lost market exclusivity in the United States and in several major European markets, and lower revenue from the Companys relationship with AstraZeneca LP (AZLP), as well as by lower sales of Gardasil, a vaccine to help prevent cervical, vulvar, vaginal and anal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions, and genital warts caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV) types contained in the vaccine, and lower sales of Zocor, the Companys statin for modifying cholesterol. In addition, the implementation of certain provisions of U.S. health care reform legislation during 2010 resulted in increased Medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced revenues by approximately $170 million. Additionally, many countries in the European Union (EU) have undertaken austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in health care and have implemented pricing actions that negatively impacted sales in 2010. Sales of Remicade and a follow on product, Simponi, were $2.8 billion in the aggregate in 2010. The Company is involved in an arbitration with Centocor Ortho Biotech, Inc. (Centocor), a subsidiary of Johnson Johnson, in which Centocor is seeking to terminate the Companys rights to continue to market Remicade and Simponi. The arbitration hearing has concluded and the Company is awaiting the arbitration panels decision. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. An unfavorable outcome in the arbitration would have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Since the Merger, the Company has continued the advancement of drug candidates through its pipeline. During 2010, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Dulera Inhalation Aerosol, a new fixed dose combination asthma treatment for patients 12 years of age and older. In addition, the intravenous formulation of Brinavess, for which Merck has exclusive marketing rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico, was granted marketing approval in the EU for the rapid conversion of recent onset atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm in adults: for non surgery patients with atrial fibrillation of seven days or less and for post cardiac surgery patients with atrial fibrillation of three days or less. Also during 2010, the FDA approved a new indication for Gardasil for the prevention of anal cancer caused by HPV types 16 and 18 and for the prevention of anal intraepithelial neoplasia grades 1, 2 and 3 (anal dysplasias and precancerous lesions) caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18, in males and females 9 through 26 years of age. Additionally, in September 2010, two supplemental New Drug Applications (sNDA) for Saphris for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults and acute treatment of bipolar I disorder in adults were approved in the United States to expand the products indications. Also during 2010, the Company entered into a co promotion agreement for the commercialization of Daxas, a treatment for symptomatic chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, which the Company launched in certain European markets. The Company currently has three candidates under review with the FDA: boceprevir, an investigational oral hepatitis C protease inhibitor; MK 0431A XR, the Companys investigational extended release formulation of Janumet and MK 431D, an investigational combination of Januvia and Zocor for the treatment of diabetes and dyslipidemia. In addition, SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, an oral contraceptive that combines a selective progestin with 17 beta estradiol, is currently under review in the EU. Additionally, MK 3009, Cubicin daptomycin for injection, is currently under review in Japan where the Company has marketing rights. Also, the Company currently has 19 candidates in Phase III development and anticipates making a New Drug Application (NDA) with respect to certain of these candidates in 2011 including MK 8669, ridaforolimus, a novel mTOR inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of metastatic soft tissue and bone sarcomas; MK 2452, Saflutan (tafluprost), for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension; MK 653C, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin, which is an investigational medication for the treatment of dyslipidemia; and MK 0974, telcagepant, the Companys investigational medication for acute treatment of migraine. Another Phase III candidate is vorapaxar with respect to which the Company was recently informed by the chairman of one of the studies to discontinue study drug and that investigators were to begin to close out the study in a timely and orderly fashion. The Company recorded a material impairment charge on the related intangible asset. See Research and Development below. The Company continues to make progress in achieving cost savings across all areas, including from consolidation in both sales and marketing and research and development, the application of the Companys lean 47 manufacturing and sourcing strategies to the expanded operations, and the full integration of the MSP Partnership. These savings result from various actions, including the Merger Restructuring Program discussed below, previously announced ongoing cost reduction activities at both legacy companies, as well as from non restructuring related activities such as the Companys procurement savings initiative. During 2010, the Company realized more than $2.0 billion in net cost savings from all of these activities. In February 2010, the Company commenced actions under a global restructuring program (the Merger Restructuring Program) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy Merck and legacy Schering Plough businesses. This Merger Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure of the combined company. Additional actions under the program continued during 2010. As part of the restructuring actions taken thus far under the Merger Restructuring Program, the Company expects to reduce its total workforce measured at the time of the Merger by approximately 17% across the Company worldwide. In addition, the Company has eliminated over 2,500 positions which were vacant at the time of the Merger. These workforce reductions will primarily come from the elimination of duplicative positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. The Company will continue to pursue productivity efficiencies and evaluate its manufacturing supply chain capabilities on an ongoing basis which may result in future restructuring actions. During this period, the Company also will continue to hire new employees in strategic growth areas of the business as necessary. In connection with the Merger Restructuring Program, separation costs under the Companys existing severance programs worldwide were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009 to the extent such costs were probable and reasonably estimable. The Company commenced accruing costs related to enhanced termination benefits offered to employees under the Merger Restructuring Program in the first quarter of 2010 when the necessary criteria were met. The Company recorded total pretax restructuring costs of $1.8 billion in 2010 and $1.5 billion in 2009 related to this program. The restructuring actions taken thus far under the Merger Restructuring Program are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2012, with the exception of certain manufacturing facilities actions, with the total cumulative pretax costs estimated to be approximately $3.8 billion to $4.6 billion. The Company estimates that approximately two thirds of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation expense. Approximately one third of the cumulative pretax costs are non cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested. The Company expects the restructuring actions taken thus far under the Merger Restructuring Program to result in annual savings in 2012 of approximately $2.7 billion to $3.1 billion. In March 2010, the United States enacted health care reform legislation. Important market reforms began during 2010 and will continue through full implementation in 2014. During 2010, Merck incurred costs as a result of the legislation, including increased Medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced revenues. The Company also recorded a charge in 2010 associated with this legislation that changed tax law to require taxation of the prescription drug subsidy of the Companys retiree health benefit plans for which companies receive reimbursement under Medicare Part D. Additional provisions of the legislation will come into effect in 2011, including the assessment of an annual health care reform fee on all branded prescription drug manufacturers and importers and the requirement that drug manufacturers pay a 50% discount on Medicare Part D utilization incurred by beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so called donut hole). These new provisions will decrease revenues and increase costs. Earnings per common share (EPS) assuming dilution for 2010 were $0.28, which reflect a net unfavorable impact resulting from the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, in process research and development (IPRD) impairment charges, including a charge related to the vorapaxar clinical development program, restructuring and merger related costs, as well as a legal reserve relating to Vioxx (the Vioxx Liability Reserve) discussed below, partially offset by the gain recognized on AstraZenecas exercise of its option to acquire certain assets from the Company. Non GAAP EPS in 2010 were $3.42 excluding these items (see Non GAAP Income and Non GAAP EPS below). In December 2010, Merck announced that its Board of Directors had elected Kenneth C. Frazier, then Mercks president, as chief executive officer and president, as well as a member of the board, effective January 1, 2011. Mr. Frazier succeeds Richard T. Clark, who will continue to serve as chairman of the board. 48 Competition and the Health Care Environment Competition The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Companys competitors include other worldwide research based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and consumer health care manufacturers. The Companys operations may be affected by technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors branded products, new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post marketing surveillance and generic competition as the Companys products mature. In addition, patent positions are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted. Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as joint ventures and licenses, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth for the Companys products in that therapeutic category. Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In 2010, this pressure was particularly intense in several European countries which implemented austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in areas such as health care. In the United States, federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and disproportionate share hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria). Under the Federal Vaccines for Children entitlement program, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) funds and purchases recommended pediatric vaccines at a public sector price for the immunization of Medicaid eligible, uninsured, Native American and certain underinsured children. Merck was awarded a CDC contract in 2010 for the supply of pediatric vaccines for the Vaccines for Children program. Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health care reform legislation in 2010. Various insurance market reforms began last year and will continue through full implementation in 2014. The new law is expected to expand access to health care to more than 32 million Americans by the end of the decade that did not previously have regular access to health care. With respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% discount on Medicare Part D utilization by beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so called donut hole). Also, beginning in 2011, pharmaceutical manufacturers will be required to pay an annual health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee, which will be $2.5 billion in 2011, will be assessed on each company in proportion to its share of sales to certain government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Although not included in the health care reform law, Congress has also considered, and may consider again, proposals to increase the governments role in pharmaceutical pricing in the Medicare program. These proposals may include removing the current legal prohibition against the Secretary of the Health and Human Services intervening in price negotiations between Medicare drug benefit program plans and pharmaceutical 49 companies. They may also include mandating the payment of rebates for some or all of the pharmaceutical utilization in Medicare drug benefit plans. In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. The full impact of U.S. health care reform, as well as continuing budget pressures on governments around the world, cannot be predicted at this time. In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company makes a continuing effort to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The Company works in markets with historically low rates of government spending on health care to encourage those governments to increase their investments and thereby improve their citizens access to appropriate health care, including medicines. In the animal health business, there is intense competition which is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Companys products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors. The Companys consumer care operations face competition from other consumer health care businesses as well as retailers who carry their own private label brands. The Companys competitive position is affected by several factors, including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, the quality and price of the Companys products, promotional efforts and the growth of lower cost private label brands. Operating conditions have become more challenging under the global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of these and other factors on the Companys business, the Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and improve the organization and its business practices to better meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces. Government Regulation The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. Governmental regulation and legislation tends to focus on standards and processes for determining drug safety and effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement, especially related to the pricing of products. Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. U.S. health care reform legislation which passed in 2010 with a full implementation date of 2014, significantly expands access to health care, but also contains a number of provisions imposing new obligations on the pharmaceutical industry, including, for example, an increase in the mandated rebate under the Medicaid program and a new discount requirement in the Medicare Part D program. The EU has adopted Directives and other legislation concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional regulations by the EU member states. The Companys policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Companys business. In January 2008, the European Commission (EC) launched a sector inquiry in the pharmaceutical industry under the rules of EU competition law. A sector inquiry allows the EC to gather information about the general operation of market competition and is not an investigation into suspected anti competitive behavior of specific firms. As part of this inquiry, Old Mercks offices in Germany were inspected by the authorities beginning in January 2008. The preliminary report of the EC was issued in November 2008, and following the public consultation period, the final report was issued in July 2009. The final report confirmed that there has been a decline in the number of novel medicines reaching the market and instances of delayed market entry of generic medicines and discussed industry practices that may have contributed to these phenomena. Among other things, the final 50 report expressed concern over settlements of patent disputes between originator and generic companies and suggested that the EC should monitor any anti competitive effects. While the EC has issued further inquiries with respect to the subject of the investigation, including to the Company, the EC has not alleged that the Company or any of its subsidiaries have engaged in any unlawful practices. The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including launching new drugs into the market, in this regulatory environment. Access to Medicines As a global health care company, Mercks primary role is to discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The Company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in helping to improve access to its products around the world. The Companys efforts in this regard are wide ranging. For example, the Company has been recognized for pricing many of its products through a differential pricing framework, taking into consideration such factors as a countrys level of economic development and public health need. Building on the Companys own efforts, Merck has undertaken collaborations with many stakeholders to improve access to medicines and enhance the quality of life for people around the world. For example, in 2010, through a partnership of Merck, the Government of Bhutan, and the Australian Cervical Cancer Foundation, Bhutan became the first low income country in the world to successfully implement a national HPV vaccination program. Under this program, Merck is providing Gardasil free of charge for the first year of the program and will provide Gardasil at the Companys access price for five more years. Also in 2010, Merck worked with its partner, the Wellcome Trust, to further develop the Hillemann Laboratories which was established in September 2009. This initiative will focus on developing affordable vaccines to prevent diseases that commonly affect low income countries. Merck has also in the past provided funds to The Merck Company Foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered with a variety of organizations dedicated to improving global health. One of these partnerships is The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnership in Botswana, a collaboration with the government of Botswana and the Bill Melinda Gates Foundation, that was renewed in 2010, and supports Botswanas response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and support. Privacy and Data Protection The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing attention to privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the Companys business, including recently enacted laws and regulations in the United States and internationally requiring notification to individuals and government authorities of security breaches involving certain categories of personal information. Operating Results Sales Worldwide sales totaled $46.0 billion for 2010 compared with $27.4 billion in 2009. Foreign exchange favorably affected global sales performance by 1%. The revenue increase over 2009 was driven largely by incremental sales resulting from the inclusion of a full year of results for legacy Schering Plough products such as Remicade, Nasonex, Temodar, PegIntron and Clarinex, as well as by the inclusion of a full year of results for Zetia and Vytorin. Prior to the Merger, substantially all sales of Zetia and Vytorin were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is wholly owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these products are now reflected in Sales. Additionally, the Company recognized a full year of sales in 2010 from legacy Schering Plough animal health and consumer care products. Sales for 2009 only include revenue from legacy Schering Plough and MSP Partnership products for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Also contributing to the sales increase was growth in Januvia and Janumet, Isentress, and Singulair. These increases 51 were partially offset by lower sales of Cozaar and Hyzaar which lost patent protection in the United States in April 2010 and in a number of major European markets in March 2010. Revenue was also negatively affected by lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D, which have lost market exclusivity in the United States and in several major European markets, and lower revenue from the Companys relationship with AZLP, as well as by lower sales of Gardasil and Zocor. In addition, the implementation of certain provisions of U.S. health care reform legislation during 2010 resulted in increased Medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced revenues by approximately $170 million. Domestic sales were $20.2 billion in 2010 compared with $14.4 billion in 2009. Foreign sales were $25.8 billion in 2010 compared with $13.0 billion in 2009. The increases were driven primarily by incremental sales resulting from the inclusion of a full year of legacy Schering Plough and MSP Partnership products in 2010. The domestic sales increase was also driven by higher sales of Januvia, Janumet, Singulair and Isentress. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Cozaar, Hyzaar, Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D, Gardasil and RotaTeq, as well as by lower revenue from the Companys relationship with AZLP. Foreign sales growth reflects the strong performance of Januvia, Janumet, Isentress and Singulair, partially offset by lower sales of Cozaar, Hyzaar, Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D. Foreign sales represented 56% of total sales in 2010. While many of the Companys brands experienced positive growth trends in the EU during 2010, the environment in the EU and across Europe is now more challenging. Many countries have announced austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in areas such as health care. The implementation of pricing actions varies by country and many have announced measures to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs. While the Company is taking steps to mitigate the immediate impact in the EU, the austerity measures negatively affected the Companys revenue performance in 2010 and the Company anticipates they will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2011. Worldwide sales totaled $27.4 billion for 2009, an increase of 15% compared with 2008. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 2%. The revenue increase over 2008 largely reflects incremental sales resulting from the inclusion of legacy Schering Plough and MSP Partnership products for the post Merger period in 2009. Also contributing to the sales increase was growth in Januvia and Janumet, Isentress, Singulair, Varivax and Pneumovax. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D, Gardasil, Cosopt and Trusopt (which lost U.S. market exclusivity in October 2008), and lower revenue from the Companys relationship with AZLP. Other products that experienced declines include RotaTeq, Zocor and Primaxin. 52 Sales(1) of the Companys products were as follows: Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Pharmaceutical: Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology Singulair $ 4,987 $ 4,660 $ 4,337 Remicade 2,714 431 Nasonex 1,220 165 Fosamax 926 1,100 1,553 Clarinex 659 101 Arcoxia 398 358 377 Proventil 210 26 Asmanex 208 37 Cardiovascular Zetia 2,297 403 6 Vytorin 2,014 441 84 Integrilin 266 46 Diabetes and Obesity Januvia 2,385 1,922 1,397 Janumet 954 658 351 Diversified Brands Cozaar/Hyzaar 2,104 3,561 3,558 Zocor 468 558 660 Propecia 447 440 429 Claritin Rx 420 71 Vasotec/Vaseretic 255 311 357 Remeron 223 38 Proscar 216 291 324 Infectious Disease Isentress 1,090 752 361 PegIntron 737 149 Cancidas 611 617 596 Primaxin 610 689 760 Invanz 362 293 265 Avelox 316 66 Rebetol 221 36 Crixivan/Stocrin 206 206 275 Neurosciences and Ophthalmology Maxalt 550 575 529 Cosopt/Trusopt 484 503 781 Subutex/Suboxone 111 36 Oncology Temodar 1,065 188 Emend 378 317 264 Caelyx 284 47 Intron A 209 38 Vaccines(2) ProQuad/M M R II/Varivax 1,378 1,369 1,268 Gardasil 988 1,118 1,403 RotaTeq 519 522 665 Pneumovax 376 346 249 Zostavax 243 277 312 Womens Health and Endocrine NuvaRing 559 88 Follistim AQ 528 96 Implanon 236 37 Cerazette 209 35 Other pharmaceutical(3) 4,170 1,218 920 Total Pharmaceutical segment sales 39,811 25,236 22,081 Other segment sales(4) 5,578 2,114 1,694 Total segment sales 45,389 27,350 23,775 Other(5) 598 78 75 $ 45,987 $ 27,428 $ 23,850 (1) Sales of legacy Schering Plough products reflect results for 2010 and the post Merger period in 2009. In addition, prior to the Merger, substantially all sales of Zetia and Vytorin were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is wholly owned by the Company; accordingly, all sales of MSP Partnership products after the Merger are reflected in the table above. Sales of Zetia and Vytorin in 2008 reflect Old Mercks sales of these products in Latin America which was not part of the MSP Partnership. (2) These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Companys joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the results of which are reflected in Equity income from affiliates. These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD. (3) Other pharmaceutical primarily reflects sales of other human pharmaceutical products, including products within the franchises not listed separately. (4) Reflects other non reportable segments including Animal Health and Consumer Care, and revenue from the Companys relationship with AZLP primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. Revenue from AZLP was $1.3 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.6 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (5) Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, third party manufacturing sales, sales related to divested products or businesses and other supply sales not included in segment results. 53 Pharmaceutical Segment Sales Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology Worldwide sales of Singulair, a once a day oral medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, grew 7% reaching $5.0 billion in 2010 reflecting price increases and positive performance in Japan. Global sales of Singulair rose 7% to $4.7 billion in 2009 primarily driven by favorable pricing and strong performance in Japan and Asia Pacific. Singulair continues to be the number one prescribed product in the U.S. respiratory market. U.S. sales of Singulair were $3.2 billion in 2010. The patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for Singulair expires in August 2012. The Company expects that within the two years following patent expiration, it will lose substantially all U.S. sales of Singulair, with most of those declines coming in the first full year following patent expiration. In addition, the patent for Singulair will expire in a number of major European markets in August 2012 and the Company expects sales of Singulair in those markets will decline significantly thereafter (although the six month Pediatric Market Exclusivity may extend this date in some markets to February 2013). Sales of Remicade, a treatment for inflammatory diseases, were $2.7 billion in 2010 and $431 million for the post Merger period in 2009. Remicade is marketed by the Company outside of the United States (except in Japan and certain other Asian markets). Products that compete with Remicade have been launched over the past several years. In October 2009, the EC approved Simponi, a once monthly subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases. In January 2011, Simponi was approved in the EU for use in combination with methotrexate in adults with severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis not previously treated with methotrexate and for the reduction in the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X ray in rheumatoid arthritis patients. The Company has launched Simponi in 18 countries and launches in other international markets are planned. Sales of Simponi were $97 million in 2010. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of arbitration proceedings involving the Companys rights to market Remicade and Simponi. Global sales of Nasonex, an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, were $1.2 billion in 2010 and were $165 million for the post Merger period in 2009. Worldwide sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D (marketed as Fosavance throughout the EU and as Fosamac in Japan) for the treatment and, in the case of Fosamax, prevention of osteoporosis, decreased 16% in 2010 to $926 million and declined 29% in 2009 to $1.1 billion. These medicines have lost market exclusivity in the United States and have also lost market exclusivity in several major European markets. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing significant sales declines within the Fosamax product franchise and the Company expects the declines to continue. Global sales of Clarinex (marketed as Aerius in many countries outside the United States), a non sedating antihistamine, were $659 million in 2010 and were $101 million for the post Merger period in 2009. Other products included in the Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology franchise include among others, Arcoxia, for the treatment of arthritis and pain; Proventil inhalation aerosol for the relief of bronchospasm; and Asmanex, an inhaled corticosteroid for asthma. In June 2010, the FDA approved Dulera Inhalation Aerosol, a new fixed dose combination asthma treatment for patients 12 years of age and older. Dulera combines an inhaled corticosteroid with a long acting beta2 agonist. Cardiovascular Sales of Zetia, a cholesterol absorption inhibitor also marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States, and Vytorin, a combination product containing the active ingredients of both Zetia and Zocor marketed outside the United States as Inegy, were $2.3 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, in 2010 and were $403 million and $441 million, respectively, for the post Merger period in 2009. Prior to the Merger, substantially all sales of these products were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is wholly owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these products are now reflected in Sales. Total sales of Zetia and Vytorin 54 in 2009, including the sales recognized through the MSP Partnership, were $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively. In November 2010, the Oxford University Clinical Trial Service Unit presented the results of the SHARP (Study of Heart and Renal Protection) study at the American Society of Nephrology meeting in which Vytorin 10/20 mg reduced the incidence of first major vascular events defined as non fatal heart attacks or cardiac death, stroke or any revascularization procedure by a highly statistically significant 16.1% compared to placebo. This was the pre specified primary endpoint of the study. The SHARP study involved more than 9,000 patients who, on average, had advanced or end stage chronic kidney disease. Merck plans to seek regulatory approvals for the use of Vytorin in patients with chronic kidney disease based on the results from the SHARP study in 2011. IMPROVE IT, a large cardiovascular outcomes study evaluating Zetia/Vytorin in patients with acute coronary syndrome, is fully enrolled with approximately 18,000 patients. During 2010, a blinded interim efficacy analysis was conducted by the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) for the trial when approximately 50% of the primary events had been accrued. The DSMB recommended continuing the trial with no changes in the study protocol. Another blinded interim efficacy analysis is planned by the DSMB when approximately 75% of the primary events have been accrued. The IMPROVE IT trial is scheduled for completion in 2013. Global sales of Integrilin Injection, a treatment for patients with acute coronary syndrome, which is sold by the Company in the United States and Canada, were $266 million in 2010 and were $46 million for the post Merger period in 2009. In September 2010, the intravenous formulation of Brinavess (vernakalant) was granted marketing approval in the EU, Iceland and Norway for the rapid conversion of recent onset atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm in adults: for non surgery patients with atrial fibrillation of seven days or less and for post cardiac surgery patients with atrial fibrillation of three days or less. Brinavess acts preferentially in the atria and is the first product in a new class of pharmacologic agents for cardioversion of atrial fibrillation to launch in the EU. In April 2009, Cardiome Pharma Corp. and Merck announced a collaboration and license agreement for the development and commercialization of vernakalant. The agreement provides Merck exclusive rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico to vernakalant intravenous formulation. Diabetes and Obesity Global sales of Januvia, Mercks dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP 4) inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, were $2.4 billion in 2010, $1.9 billion in 2009 and $1.4 billion in 2008, reflecting continued growth both in the United States and internationally due in part to the launch of new indications. In addition, growth in 2010 reflects apparent safety concerns that limited sales of a competing product. DPP 4 inhibitors represent a class of prescription medications that improve blood sugar control in patients with type 2 diabetes by enhancing a natural body system called the incretin system, which helps to regulate glucose by affecting the beta cells and alpha cells in the pancreas. Worldwide sales of Janumet, Mercks oral antihyperglycemic agent that combines sitagliptin (Januvia) with metformin in a single tablet to target all three key defects of type 2 diabetes, were $954 million in 2010, $658 million in 2009 and $351 million in 2008 reflecting growth both in the United States and internationally due to ongoing launches in certain markets. MK 0431A XR, the Companys investigational extended release formulation of Janumet, was accepted for standard review by the FDA in 2010. The Company is also moving forward as planned with regulatory filings in countries outside the United States. The extended release formulation of Janumet is an investigational treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines sitagliptin with metformin extended release, a commonly prescribed medication for type 2 diabetes, into a single tablet. This formulation is designed to provide a new treatment option for health care providers and patients who need two or more oral agents to help control their blood sugar with the convenience of once daily dosing. Diversified Brands Mercks diversified brands are human health pharmaceutical products that are approaching the expiration of their marketing exclusivity or are no longer protected by patents in developed markets, but continue to be a core part of the Companys offering in other markets around the world. 55 Global sales of Cozaar and its companion agent Hyzaar (a combination of Cozaar and hydrochlorothiazide) for the treatment of hypertension fell 41% in 2010 to $2.1 billion. The patents that provided U.S. market exclusivity for Cozaar and Hyzaar expired in April 2010. In addition, Cozaar and Hyzaar lost patent protection in a number of major European markets in March 2010. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing a significant decline in Cozaar/Hyzaar worldwide sales and the Company expects such decline to continue. Global sales of Cozaar and Hyzaar were $3.6 billion in 2009 which were comparable to sales in 2008 reflecting the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange, offset by strong performance of both products in the United States and of Hyzaar in Japan (marketed as Preminent). Other products contained in the Diversified Brands franchise include among others, Zocor, a statin for modifying cholesterol; Propecia, a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss; prescription Claritin for the treatment of seasonal outdoor allergies and year round indoor allergies; Vasotec/Vaseretic for hypertension and or heart failure; Remeron, an antidepressant; and Proscar, a urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement. Remeron lost market exclusivity in the United States in January 2010 and in certain markets in the EU in September 2010. Infectious Disease Worldwide sales of Isentress, an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV 1 infection in treatment nave and treatment experienced adults, were $1.1 billion in 2010, $752 million in 2009 and $361 million in 2008. Sales growth in both periods reflects positive performance in the United States, as well as internationally, resulting from continued uptake since launch. Isentress works by inhibiting the insertion of HIV DNA into human DNA by the integrase enzyme. Inhibiting integrase from performing this essential function helps to limit the ability of the virus to replicate and infect new cells. In November 2010, the Company reported initial results from the Phase III study investigating the efficacy and safety of a treatment regimen including Isentress tablets once daily in treatment nave adult patients infected with HIV 1. In the study, although the treatment regimen that included Isentress once daily enabled more than 80% of patients to achieve viral suppression, Isentress once daily did not demonstrate non inferiority to the treatment regimen that included Isentress twice daily. Based on the initial results and following the recommendation of an independent Data Monitoring Committee, Merck terminated the study. Worldwide sales of PegIntron for treating chronic hepatitis C were $737 million in 2010 and were $149 million for the post Merger period in 2009. In September 2010, the Company initiated a voluntary recall of PegIntron single dose RediPen injection in the United States after consultation with the FDA, as well as other recalls globally, resulting in a reduction to revenue in 2010 of approximately $20 million representing estimated sales returns. In addition, the Company recognized a charge of approximately $40 million in Materials and production primarily for inventory discard costs. The recall was conducted as a precautionary measure due to a third party manufacturing issue that could have affected a small number of RediPens. The recall was specific to PegIntron RediPen and did not affect PegIntron vial products. Sales of Primaxin, an anti bacterial product, decreased 11% in 2010 to $610 million and declined 9% in 2009 to $689 million. These results reflect competitive pressures and in 2009 also reflect supply constraints. Patents on Primaxin have expired worldwide and multiple generics have been approved in Europe. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing a decline in sales of this product and the Company expects the decline to continue. Other products contained in the Infectious Diseases franchise include among others, Cancidas, an anti fungal product; Invanz for the treatment of certain infections; Avelox, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic for the treatment of certain respiratory and skin infections; Rebetol for use in combination with PegIntron for treating chronic hepatitis C; and Crixivan and Stocrin, antiretroviral therapies for the treatment of HIV infection. The compound patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for Crixivan expires in 2012. Neurosciences and Ophthalmology Global sales of Maxalt, Mercks tablet for the acute treatment of migraine, declined 4% in 2010 to $550 million reflecting the generic availability of a competing product. Sales of Maxalt grew 9% in 2009 to $575 million. The compound patent that provides market exclusivity for Maxalt in the United States expires in 56 June 2012 (although the six month Pediatric Market Exclusivity may extend this date to December 2012). In addition, the patent for Maxalt will expire in a number of major European markets in 2013. The Company anticipates that sales in the United States and in these European markets will decline significantly after these patent expiries. Worldwide sales of ophthalmic products Cosopt and Trusopt declined 4% in 2010 to $484 million and fell 36% to $503 million in 2009. The patent that provided U.S. market exclusivity for Cosopt and Trusopt expired in October 2008. Trusopt has also lost market exclusivity in a number of major European markets. The patent for Cosopt will expire in a number of major European markets in March 2013 and the Company expects sales in those markets to decline significantly thereafter. In August 2009, the FDA approved Saphris (asenapine) for the acute treatment of schizophrenia in adults and for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder with or without psychotic features in adults. In September 2010, two sNDAs for Saphris were approved in the United States to expand the products indications to the treatment of schizophrenia in adults, as monotherapy for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults, and as adjunctive therapy with either lithium or valproate for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults. In September 2010, asenapine, to be sold under the brand name Sycrest, received marketing approval in the EU for the treatment of moderate to severe manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults; the marketing approval did not include an indication for schizophrenia. The marketing approval applies to all EU member states. In October 2010, Merck and H. Lundbeck A/S (Lundbeck) announced a worldwide commercialization agreement for Sycrest sublingual tablets (5 mg, 10 mg). Under the terms of the agreement, Lundbeck paid a fee and will make product supply payments in exchange for exclusive commercial rights to Sycrest in all markets outside the United States, China and Japan. Merck will retain exclusive commercial rights to asenapine in the United States, China and Japan. Concurrently, Merck is continuing to pursue regulatory approval for asenapine in other parts of the world. Merck continues to focus on building the brand awareness of Saphris in the United States. Merck launched a black cherry flavor of the sublingual tablet to provide an additional taste option. Merck continues to monitor and assess Saphris/Sycrest and the related intangible asset. If increasing the brand awareness, the additional flavor option, or Lundbecks launch of the product in the EU is not successful, the Company may take a non cash impairment charge with respect to Saphris/Sycrest, and such charge could be material. Bridion, for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants during surgery, is currently approved in more than 60 countries and has launched in more than 40 countries outside of the United States. Bridion is in Phase III development in the United States. Sales of Bridion were $103 million in 2010. The Neurosciences and Ophthalmology franchise also includes the products Subutex/Suboxone for the treatment of opiate addiction. In March 2010, Merck sold the rights to Subutex/Suboxone in nearly all markets back to Reckitt Benckiser Group PLC (Reckitt). The rights to the products in most major markets reverted to Reckitt on July 1, 2010; the remainder will revert to Reckitt during 2011. Sales for Subutex/Suboxone were $111 million in 2010. Oncology Sales of Temodar (marketed as Temodal outside the United States), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, were $1.1 billion during 2010 and were $188 million for the post Merger period in 2009. In November 2010, Merck announced that a federal appellate court ruled in its favor in a Temodar patent infringement suit against Barr Laboratories (Barr), an affiliate of Teva Pharmaceuticals (Teva). The appellate court rejected Barrs arguments and reversed a lower court ruling that the U.S. patent was unenforceable. Teva had been seeking FDA approval to sell a generic version of Temodar. In connection with Tevas prior agreement not to launch during the appeal, Merck agreed that it will not object to Tevas launch of a generic version of Temodar in August 2013. The U.S. patent and exclusivity periods otherwise will expire on February 2014. Temodar lost patent exclusivity in the EU in 2009 and generic products are being marketed. Global sales of Emend, a treatment for chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting, grew 19% in 2010 to $378 million driven by increases in the United States and due to the launch in Japan. Emend sales increased 20% to $317 million in 2009. 57 Other products in the Oncology franchise include among others, Caelyx for the treatment of ovarian cancer, metastatic breast cancer and Kaposis sarcoma; and Intron A for treating melanoma. Marketing rights for Caelyx reverted to Johnson Johnson on December 31, 2010. Sales of Caelyx were $284 million in 2010. Vaccines The following discussion of vaccines does not include sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through Sanofi Pasteur MSD (SPMSD), the Companys joint venture with Sanofi Pasteur, the results of which are reflected in Equity income from affiliates (see Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information below). Supply sales to SPMSD, however, are included. Worldwide sales of Gardasil recorded by Merck declined 12% to $988 million in 2010 and decreased 20% to $1.1 billion in 2009. Gardasil, the worlds top selling HPV vaccine, is indicated for girls and women 9 through 26 years of age for the prevention of cervical, vulvar and vaginal cancers caused by HPV types 16 and 18, precancerous or dysplastic lesions caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18, and genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11. Gardasil is also approved in the United States for use in boys and men ages 9 through 26 years of age for the prevention of genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11. In December 2010, the FDA approved a new indication for Gardasil for the prevention of anal cancer caused by HPV types 16 and 18 and for the prevention of anal intraepithelial neoplasia grades 1, 2 and 3 (anal dysplasias and precancerous lesions) caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18, in males and females 9 through 26 years of age. Sales performance in 2010 and 2009 was driven largely by declines in the United States, as well as in Australia during 2010, which continue to be affected by the saturation of the 13 to 18 year old female cohort. Sales in 2009 include $51 million of revenue as a result of government purchases for the CDCs Strategic National Stockpile. The Company is a party to certain third party license agreements with respect to Gardasil (including a cross license and settlement agreement with GlaxoSmithKline). As a result of these agreements, the Company pays royalties on worldwide Gardasil sales of 21% to 27% which vary by country and are included in Materials and production costs. In January 2009, the FDA issued a second complete response letter regarding the sBLA for the use of Gardasil in women ages 27 through 45. The FDA completed its review of the response that Old Merck provided in July 2008 to the FDAs first complete response letter issued in June 2008 and recommended that Old Merck submit additional data when the 48 month study has been completed. Merck provided a response to the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2009. Discussions continue with the FDA to determine how adult women study data may be included in the prescribing information for Gardasil. The complete response letter does not affect current indications for Gardasil in females ages 9 through 26. Global sales of RotaTeq, a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, recorded by Merck declined 1% in 2010 to $519 million. Sales during 2010 benefited modestly from a temporary competitor supply issue. Sales declined 21% in 2009 to $522 million reflecting competitive pressures. In recent years the Company has experienced difficulties in producing its varicella zoster virus (VZV) containing vaccines. These difficulties have resulted in supply constraints for ProQuad, Varivax and Zostavax. The Company is manufacturing bulk varicella and is producing doses of Varivax and Zostavax. A limited quantity of ProQuad, a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella, one of the VZV containing vaccines, became available in the United States for ordering in the second quarter of 2010. Actual market demand will dictate how long supply will last. Sales as recorded by Merck for ProQuad were $134 million in 2010 and $9 million in 2008. ProQuad was not available for ordering in 2009 due to supply constraints. Mercks sales of Varivax, a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella), were $929 million in 2010, $1.0 billion in 2009 and $925 million in 2008. Sales for 2010 and 2009 reflect $48 million and $64 million, respectively, of revenue as a result of government purchases for the CDCs Strategic National Stockpile. Mercks sales of M M R II, a vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps and rubella, were $315 million in 2010, $331 million in 2009 and $334 million in 2008. Sales of Varivax and M M R II were affected by the unavailability of ProQuad as noted above. 58 Sales of Zostavax, a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster), recorded by Merck were $243 million in 2010, $277 million in 2009 and $312 million in 2008. Sales in all of these years were affected by supply issues. Customers experienced backorders for Zostavax during 2010. Merck began filling backorders in December 2010. The Company expects to continue to release doses in 2011, but product backorders are expected to continue through at least the first quarter of 2011 and the Company anticipates sales in future quarters will be affected by availability of supply. Due to these supply constraints, no new international launches or immunization programs are currently planned for 2011. During 2010, Merck filed a Supplemental Biologics License Application with the FDA for the use of Zostavax to prevent shingles in people 50 to 59 years of age. Sales of Pneumovax, a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease, were $376 million for 2010, $346 million for 2009 and $249 million for 2008. The increase in 2009 as compared with 2008 was due to favorable pricing in the United States and higher demand associated with the flu pandemic. In 2009, Old Merck entered into an exclusive agreement with CSL Biotherapies (CSL), a subsidiary of CSL Limited, to market and distribute Afluria, CSLs seasonal influenza (flu) vaccine, in the United States, for the 2010/2011 2015/2016 flu seasons. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will assume responsibility for all aspects of commercialization of Afluria in the United States. CSL will supply Afluria to Merck and will retain responsibility for marketing the vaccine outside the United States. Afluria is indicated for the active immunization of persons age 6 months and older against influenza disease caused by influenza virus subtypes A and type B present in the vaccine. Sales of Afluria were $50 million in 2010. In January 2010, PedvaxHIB became fully available in the United States for routine vaccination as well as for booster dose catch up vaccination. The timing of availability outside the United States is dependent upon local regulatory requirements. Comvax became available in the third quarter of 2010. The pediatric/adolescent formulation of Vaqta, a vaccine against hepatitis A, is available. Mercks adult formulation will not be available in the United States until after 2011. Outside of the United States, the supply of Vaqta is limited and availability will vary by region. The pediatric/adolescent formulation of Recombivax HB, a vaccine against hepatitis B, is available and the dialysis formulation became available in the third quarter of 2010. The Company currently anticipates availability of the adult formulation of Recombivax HB in the first half of 2012. In April 2010, Merck and MassBiologics (MBL) of the University of Massachusetts Medical School entered into an agreement that provides Merck with exclusive rights to market and distribute MBLs tetanus and diphtheria toxoids adsorbed (Td) vaccine in the United States, with the exception of Massachusetts, where MBL will continue distributing the vaccine. Merck began distributing the Td vaccine in June 2010. Womens Health and Endocrine Worldwide sales of NuvaRing, a contraceptive product, were $559 million during 2010 and $88 million for the post Merger period in 2009. Global sales of Follistim AQ (marketed in most countries outside the United States as Puregon), a fertility treatment, were $528 million during 2010 and were $96 million for the post Merger period in 2009. Puregon lost market exclusivity in the EU in August 2009. Other products contained in the Womens Health and Endocrine franchise include among others, Implanon, a single rod subdermal contraceptive implant; Cerazette, a progestin only oral contraceptive; and Elonva, a fertility treatment. The Company is currently experiencing difficulty manufacturing certain womens health products. The Company is working to resolve these issues. Other In January 2010, the Company, AZLP and Teva (which acquired IVAX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (IVAX)) entered into a settlement agreement to resolve patent litigation with respect to esomeprazole (Nexium) which provides that Teva/IVAX will not bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States until May 27, 2014. During 2008, Old Merck and AZLP entered into a similar agreement with Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. 59 (Ranbaxy) which provides that Ranbaxy will not bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States until May 27, 2014. The Company faces other challenges with respect to outstanding patent infringement matters for esomeprazole (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). AstraZeneca has an option to buy Old Mercks interest in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable in 2012, and the Company believes that it is likely that AstraZeneca will exercise that option (see Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information below). Animal Health Animal Health includes pharmaceutical and vaccine products for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major farm and companion animal species. Animal Health sales are affected by intense competition and the frequent introduction of generic products. Global sales of Animal Health products totaled $2.9 billion during 2010 reflecting continued strong performance among cattle, poultry, companion animal and swine products. Global sales of Animal Health products totaled $494 million for the post Merger period in 2009. During the first quarter of 2010, sanofi aventis exercised its option to require the Company to seek to combine its Animal Health business with Merial Limited to form an animal health joint venture. The formation of the animal health joint venture is expected to be dilutive to the Companys earnings for the first 12 months after the transaction closes. (See Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information below.) Consumer Care Consumer Care products include over the counter, foot care and sun care products such as Dr. Scholls foot care products; Claritin non drowsy antihistamines; MiraLAX, a treatment for occasional constipation; and Coppertone sun care products. Global sales of Consumer Care products were $1.3 billion during 2010 reflecting strong performance of a number of key brands including Dr. Scholls and Coppertone. Consumer Care product sales were $149 million for the post Merger period in 2009. Consumer Care product sales are affected by competition, frequent competitive product introductions and consumer spending patterns. In April 2010, Zegerid OTC, an over the counter option for treating frequent heartburn without prescription, became available in drug stores, grocery stores, mass merchandisers and club stores nationwide. The FDA approved Zegerid in December 2009 for over the counter use. Costs Expenses and Other ($ in millions) 2010 Change 2009 Change 2008 Materials and production $ 18,396 * $ 9,019 62 % $ 5,583 Marketing and administrative 13,245 55 % 8,543 16 % 7,377 Research and development(1) 10,991 88 % 5,845 22 % 4,805 Restructuring costs 985 40 % 1,634 58 % 1,033 Equity income from affiliates (587 ) 74 % (2,235 ) 13 % (2,561 ) Other (income) expense, net 1,304 * (10,668 ) * (2,318 ) $ 44,334 * $ 12,138 13 % $ 13,919 * 100% or greater. (1) Includes $2.4 billion of IPRD impairment charges in 2010 and restructuring costs in all years. Materials and Production Materials and production costs were $18.4 billion in 2010, $9.0 billion in 2009 and $5.6 billion in 2008. Materials and production costs in 2010 and in the post Merger period of 2009 include expenses related to the sale of legacy Schering Plough and MSP Partnership products. Additionally, these costs were unfavorably affected by $4.6 billion and $0.8 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively, of expense for the amortization of intangible assets and $2.0 billion and $1.5 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively, of amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to Schering Ploughs inventories recognized in the Merger. Also included in materials and production costs in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $429 million, $115 million and $123 million, respectively, of costs associated with 60 restructuring activities, including accelerated depreciation and asset write offs related to the planned sale or closure of manufacturing facilities. Separation costs associated with manufacturing related headcount reductions have been incurred and are reflected in Restructuring costs as discussed below. (See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.) Gross margin was 60.0% in 2010 compared with 67.1% in 2009 and 76.6% in 2008. The amortization of intangible assets and purchase accounting adjustments to inventories recorded in 2010 and 2009 as a result of the Merger and the restructuring charges reflected in all periods as noted above had an unfavorable impact of 15.2 percentage points in 2010, 8.8 percentage points in 2009 and 0.5 percentage points in 2008. Marketing and Administrative Marketing and administrative expenses were $13.2 billion in 2010, $8.5 billion in 2009 and $7.4 billion in 2008. The increases were driven largely by the inclusion of expenses related to Schering Plough activities during 2010 and in the post Merger period of 2009. Additionally, $379 million of merger related costs were recognized in 2010 consisting largely of integration costs, as well as costs incurred in conjunction with the potential formation of the animal health joint venture with sanofi aventis, compared with $371 million of merger related costs recognized in 2009 consisting largely of transaction costs directly related to the Merger (including advisory and legal fees) and integration costs. In addition, expenses for 2010 included $144 million of restructuring costs, primarily related to accelerated depreciation for facilities to be closed or divested. These increases were partially offset by initiatives to reduce the cost base. Separation costs associated with sales force reductions have been incurred and are reflected in Restructuring costs as discussed below. In addition, marketing and administrative expenses benefited from foreign exchange during 2009. Marketing and administrative expenses in 2010, 2009 and 2008 included $106 million, $75 million and $62 million, respectively, of additional reserves solely for future Vioxx legal defense costs. (See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on Vioxx litigation related matters). Research and Development Research and development expenses were $11.0 billion in 2010, $5.8 billion in 2009 and $4.8 billion in 2008. The increases were due in part to the incremental expenditures associated with the inclusion of Schering Ploughs operations in 2010 and for the post Merger period of 2009. In addition, during 2010, the Company recorded $2.4 billion of IPRD impairment charges. Of this amount, $1.7 billion related to the write down of the intangible asset for vorapaxar resulting from developments in the clinical program for this compound (see Research and Development below). The remaining $763 million of IPRD impairment charges were attributable to compounds that were abandoned and determined to have either no alternative use or were returned to the respective licensor, as well as from expected delays in the launch timing or changes in the cash flow assumptions for certain compounds. The Company may recognize additional non cash impairment charges in the future for the cancellation or delay of other legacy Schering Plough pipeline programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the Merger and such charges could be material. Additionally, research and development expenses in 2010, 2009 and 2008 reflect $428 million, $232 million and $128 million, respectively, of costs associated with restructuring activities, including accelerated depreciation and asset abandonment costs. (See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.) Also, research and development expenses in 2010 include a $50 million payment related to the restructuring of Mercks agreement with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (ARIAD) (see Research and Development below), while expenses in 2009 reflect upfront payments associated with external licensing activity. Research and development expenses in 2009 as compared with 2008 also reflect an increase in development spending in support of the continued advancement of the research pipeline, including investments in late stage clinical trials. For segment reporting, research and development costs are unallocated. Share Based Compensation Total pretax share based compensation expense was $509 million in 2010, $415 million in 2009 and $348 million in 2008. At December 31, 2010, there was $416 million of total pretax unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested stock option, restricted stock unit and performance share unit awards which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.8 years. For segment reporting, share based compensation costs are unallocated expenses. 61 Restructuring Costs Restructuring costs were $985 million, $1.6 billion and $1.0 billion for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Of the restructuring costs recorded in 2010, $915 million related to the Merger Restructuring Program, $77 million related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and the remaining difference related to the legacy Schering Plough Productivity Transformation Program, which included a gain on the sale of a manufacturing facility. Of the restructuring costs recorded in 2009, $1.4 billion related to the Merger Restructuring Program, $178 million related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and $39 million related to the legacy Schering Plough Productivity Transformation Program. Of the restructuring costs recorded in 2008, $736 million related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and the remainder was associated with the 2005 Restructuring Program. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, separation costs of $768 million, $1.4 billion and $957 million, respectively, were incurred associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as estimated expenses under existing severance programs for headcount reductions that were probable and could be reasonably estimated. Merck eliminated 12,465 positions in 2010 (of which 11,410 related to the Merger Restructuring Program, 890 related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and the remainder to the legacy Schering Plough Productivity Transformation Program), 3,525 positions in 2009 (most of which related to the 2008 Restructuring Program) and 5,800 positions in 2008 (of which approximately 1,750 related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and 4,050 related to the 2005 Restructuring Program). These position eliminations are comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. Also included in restructuring costs are curtailment, settlement and termination charges on pension and other postretirement benefit plans, as well as contract termination and shutdown costs. For segment reporting, restructuring costs are unallocated expenses. Additional costs associated with the Companys restructuring activities are included in Materials and production, Marketing and administrative and Research and development. Equity Income from Affiliates Equity income from affiliates, which reflects the performance of the Companys joint ventures and other equity method affiliates, declined to $587 million in 2010. Equity income from affiliates no longer includes equity income from the MSP Partnership, which became wholly owned by the Company as a result of the Merger and therefore its results have been included in the consolidated results of the Company beginning from the date of the Merger, or from Merial Limited (Merial) due the sale of Old Mercks interest in September 2009. In addition, lower partnership returns from AZLP, as well as lower equity income from SPMSD as a result of restructuring charges recorded by the joint venture, also contributed to the decline. In 2009, equity income from affiliates declined to $2.2 billion primarily driven by lower equity income from the MSP Partnership and Merial resulting from the 2009 Merger related events discussed above, partially offset by higher partnership returns from AZLP. (See Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information below.) Other (Income) Expense, Net The change in other (income) expense, net for 2010 as compared with 2009 primarily reflects a $7.5 billion gain in 2009 resulting from recognizing Mercks previously held equity interest in the MSP Partnership at fair value as a result of obtaining control of the MSP Partnership in the Merger (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements), a $3.2 billion gain in 2009 on the sale of Old Mercks interest in Merial (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements), a $950 million charge for the Vioxx Liability Reserve recorded in 2010 (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements), lower recognized net gains in 2010 on the Companys investment portfolio and charges recorded in 2010 related to the settlement of certain pending Average Wholesale Prices litigation (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). Lower interest income and higher interest expense in 2010 as a result of the Merger also contributed to the year over year change. In addition, as discussed below, during 2010 the Company recognized exchange losses of $200 million due to two Venezuelan currency devaluations during the year. These items were partially offset by $443 million of income recognized in 2010 upon AstraZenecas asset option exercise (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements) and $102 million of income recognized in 2010 on the settlement of certain disputed royalties. Effective January 1, 2010, the Company was required to remeasure its local currency operations in Venezuela to U.S. dollars as the Venezuelan economy was determined to be hyperinflationary. Effective January 11, 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency from at BsF 2.15 per U.S. dollar to a two tiered official exchange rate at (1) the essentials rate at BsF 2.60 per U.S. dollar and (2) the non essentials rate at BsF 4.30 per 62 U.S. dollar. Throughout 2010, the Company settled transactions at the essentials rate and therefore remeasured monetary assets and liabilities utilizing the essentials rate. In December 2010, the Venezuelan government announced it would eliminate the essentials rate and effective January 1, 2011, all transactions would be settled at the official rate of at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. As a result of this announcement, the Company remeasured its December 31, 2010 monetary assets and liabilities at the new official rate. Included in other (income) expense, net in 2009 was the $7.5 billion gain related to Mercks previously held interest in the MSP Partnership and the $3.2 billion gain recognized on the sale of Old Mercks interest in Merial. Also included in other (income) expense, net in 2009 was $231 million of investment portfolio recognized net gains, and an $80 million charge related to the settlement of the Vioxx third party payor litigation in the United States. Included in other (income) expense, net in 2008 was an aggregate gain on distribution from AZLP of $2.2 billion, a gain of $249 million related to the sale of the remaining worldwide rights to Aggrastat, a $300 million expense for a contribution to the Merck Company Foundation, $117 million of investment portfolio recognized net losses and a $58 million charge related to the resolution of an investigation into whether Old Merck violated state consumer protection laws with respect to the sales and marketing of Vioxx. Merck experienced a decline in interest income in 2009 as compared with 2008 primarily as a result of lower interest rates and a change in the investment portfolio mix toward cash and shorter dated securities in anticipation of the Merger. Merck recognized higher interest expense in 2009 largely due to $173 million of commitment fees and incremental interest expense related to the financing of the Merger. Segment Profits ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Pharmaceutical segment profits $ 24,003 $ 15,715 $ 14,110 Other non reportable segment profits 2,423 1,735 1,691 Other (24,773 ) (2,160 ) (5,870 ) Income before income taxes $ 1,653 $ 15,290 $ 9,931 Segment profits are comprised of segment revenues less certain elements of materials and production costs and operating expenses, including components of equity income or loss from affiliates and depreciation and amortization expenses. For internal management reporting presented to the chief operating decision maker, Merck does not allocate production costs, other than standard costs, research and development expenses or general and administrative expenses, nor the cost of financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by these divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment profits. Also excluded from the determination of segment profits are the Vioxx Liability Reserve and the gain on AstraZenecas asset option exercise recognized in 2010, the gains related to the MSP Partnership and the disposition of Merial in 2009, and the gain on distribution from AZLP in 2008, as well as the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, IPRD impairment charges, restructuring costs, taxes paid at the joint venture level and a portion of equity income. Additionally, segment profits do not reflect other expenses from corporate and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income or expense. These unallocated items are reflected in Other in the above table. Also included in Other are miscellaneous corporate profits, operating profits related to third party manufacturing sales, divested products or businesses, as well as other supply sales and adjustments to eliminate the effect of double counting certain items of income and expense. Pharmaceutical segment profits rose 53% in 2010 and increased 11% in 2009. These increases were largely driven by the inclusion of legacy Schering Plough results. Taxes on Income The effective income tax rate was 40.6% in 2010, 14.8% in 2009 and 20.1% in 2008. The 2010 effective tax rate reflects the unfavorable impacts of purchase accounting charges, IPRD impairment charges, restructuring charges, the Vioxx Liability Reserve for which no tax impact was recorded, a $147 million charge associated with a change in tax law that requires taxation of the prescription drug subsidy of the Companys retiree health benefit plans which was enacted in the first quarter of 2010 as part of U.S. health care reform legislation, and the impact of AstraZenecas asset option exercise. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by a $391 million tax benefit 63 from changes in a foreign entitys tax rate, which resulted in a reduction in deferred tax liabilities on product intangibles recorded in conjunction with the Merger, the favorable impact of the enactment of the tax extenders legislation, including the RD tax credit, and the favorable impact of foreign earnings and dividends from the Companys foreign subsidiaries. The 2009 effective tax rate reflects the favorable impacts of increased income in lower tax jurisdictions, which includes the favorable impact of the MSP Partnership gain, and higher expenses in certain jurisdictions including the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments and restructuring costs. The effective income tax rate in 2009 also benefited from 2009 tax settlements, including the previously announced settlement with the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA). These favorable impacts were partially offset by the unfavorable effect of the gain on the sale of Old Mercks interest in Merial which was taxable in the United States at a combined federal and state tax rate of approximately 38.0%. The 2008 effective tax rate reflects favorable impacts relating to tax settlements that resulted in a reduction of the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $200 million, the realization of foreign tax credits and the favorable tax impact of foreign exchange rate changes during the fourth quarter, particularly the strengthening of the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by an unfavorable impact resulting from the AZLP gain being fully taxable in the United States at a combined federal and state tax rate of approximately 36.3%. In the first quarter of 2008, Old Merck decided to distribute certain prior years foreign earnings to the United States which resulted in a utilization of foreign tax credits. These foreign tax credits arose as a result of tax payments made outside of the United States in prior years that became realizable in the first quarter based on a change in Old Mercks decision to distribute these foreign earnings. Net Income and Earnings per Common Share Net income attributable to Merck Co., Inc. was $861 million in 2010, $12.9 billion in 2009 and $7.8 billion in 2008. Earnings per common share assuming dilution available to common shareholders (EPS) were $0.28 in 2010, $5.65 in 2009 and $3.63 in 2008. The declines in net income and EPS in 2010 as compared with 2009 were primarily due to the gains recognized in 2009 associated with the MSP Partnership as a result of the Merger and the disposition of Merial, as well as incremental costs in 2010 as a result of the Merger, including the recognition of a full year of amortization of intangible assets and inventory step up. In addition, IPRD impairment charges, the Vioxx Liability Reserve, lower equity income from affiliates and the impact of U.S. health care reform legislation also contributed to the declines in net income and EPS in 2010. The increases in net income and earnings per share in 2009 as compared with 2008 were largely driven by the MSP Partnership and Merial gains, partially offset by incremental charges associated with the Merger, including the amortization of intangible assets and inventory step up and the recognition of merger related costs. EPS in 2009 was also affected by the dilutive impact of shares issued in the Merger. Non GAAP Income and Non GAAP EPS Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS are alternative views of the Companys performance used by management that Merck is providing because management believes this information enhances investors understanding of the Companys results. Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact that they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. The excluded items consist of certain purchase accounting items related to the Merger, restructuring activities, merger related costs, and certain other items. These excluded items are significant components in understanding and assessing financial performance. Therefore, the information on non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, net income and EPS prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Additionally, since non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS are not measures determined in accordance with GAAP, they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS are important internal measures for the Company. Senior management receives a monthly analysis of operating results that includes non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS and the performance of the Company is measured on this basis along with other performance metrics. Senior managements annual compensation is derived in part using non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS. 64 A reconciliation between GAAP financial measures and non GAAP financial measures is as follows: ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Pretax income as reported under GAAP $ 1,653 $ 15,290 $ 9,931 Increase (decrease) for excluded items: Purchase accounting adjustments 9,007 2,286 Restructuring costs 1,986 1,981 1,284 Merger related costs 396 544 Other items: Vioxx Liability Reserve 950 Gain on AstraZeneca asset option exercise (443 ) Gain related to the MSP Partnership (7,530 ) Gain on Merial divestiture (3,163 ) Gain on distribution from AZLP (2,223 ) 13,549 9,408 8,992 Taxes on income as reported under GAAP 671 2,268 1,999 Estimated tax benefit (expense) on excluded items 1,798 (390 ) (472 ) Tax benefit from foreign entity tax rate changes 391 Tax charge related to U.S. health care reform legislation (147 ) Non GAAP taxes on income 2,713 1,878 1,527 Non GAAP net income $ 10,836 $ 7,530 $ 7,465 2010 2009 2008 EPS assuming dilution as reported under GAAP $ 0.28 $ 5.65 $ 3.63 EPS difference(1) 3.14 (2.40 ) (0.21 ) Non GAAP EPS assuming dilution $ 3.42 $ 3.25 $ 3.42 (1) Represents the difference between calculated GAAP EPS and calculated non GAAP EPS, which may be different than the amount calculated by dividing the impact of the excluded items by the weighted average shares. Purchase Accounting Adjustments Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude the ongoing impact of certain amounts recorded in connection with the Merger. These amounts include the amortization of intangible assets and inventory step up, as well as IPRD impairment charges (see Research and Development below). Restructuring Costs Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude costs related to restructuring actions, including restructuring activities related to the Merger (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). These amounts include employee separation costs and accelerated depreciation associated with facilities to be closed or divested. Accelerated depreciation costs represent the difference between the depreciation expense to be recognized over the revised useful life of the site, based upon the anticipated date the site will be closed or divested, and depreciation expense as determined utilizing the useful life prior to the restructuring actions. The Company has undertaken restructurings of different types during the covered periods and therefore these charges should not be considered non recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS because it believes it is helpful for understanding the performance of the continuing business. Merger Related Costs Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude transaction costs associated directly with the Merger, as well as integration costs. These costs are excluded because management believes that these costs are unique to the 65 Merger transaction and are not representative of ongoing normal business activities. Integration costs associated with the Merger will occur over several years; however, the impacts within each year will vary as the integration progresses. These costs include costs associated with the potential formation of an animal health joint venture with sanofi aventis. Certain Other Items Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude certain other items. These items represent substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspect of their unusual nature and generally represent items that, either as a result of their nature or magnitude, management would not anticipate that they would occur as part of the Companys normal business on a regular basis. Certain other items include the Vioxx Liability Reserve, the gain recognized upon AstraZenecas asset option exercise, the gain on recognizing Mercks previously held equity interest in the MSP Partnership at fair value as a result of obtaining a controlling interest in the Merger, the gain on the divestiture of Old Mercks interest in Merial and the gain on a distribution from AZLP. Research and Development A chart reflecting the Companys current research pipeline as of February 16, 2011 is set forth in Item 1. Business Research and Development above. Research and Development Update In connection with the Merger, during 2009, the Company began assessing its pipeline to identify the most promising, high potential compounds for development. The full prioritization process was completed during 2010. The Company currently has a number of candidates under regulatory review in the United States and internationally. Boceprevir is an investigational oral hepatitis C virus protease inhibitor currently under development. Full data results for two pivotal late stage studies for boceprevir were presented in November 2010 at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Study of Liver Disease which showed that boceprevir demonstrated significantly higher sustained virologic response rates in adult patients who previously failed treatment and in adult patients who were new to treatment for chronic hepatitis C virus genotype 1 compared to control, the primary objective of the studies. Based on these data, regulatory applications for boceprevir were submitted in 2010 and have been accepted for expedited review in both the United States and the EU. MK 0431A XR, the Companys investigational extended release formulation of Janumet, was accepted for standard review by the FDA in 2010. The Company is also moving forward as planned with regulatory filings in countries outside the United States. The extended release formulation of Janumet is an investigational treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines sitagliptin, which is the active component of Januvia, with metformin extended release, a commonly prescribed medication for type 2 diabetes, into a single tablet. This formulation is designed to provide a new treatment option for health care providers and patients who need two or more oral agents to help control their blood sugar with the convenience of once daily dosing. SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, is an oral contraceptive that combines a selective progestin with 17 beta estradiol, an estrogen that is identical to the one naturally present in a womens body. The drug is currently under review in the EU. It is also in Phase III development for the U.S. market. MK 3009, Cubicin daptomycin for injection, is currently under review in Japan. As previously disclosed, in 2007, Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Cubist) entered into a license agreement with Old Merck for the development and commercialization of Cubicin, for the treatment of staph infection, in Japan where the Company has the commercial rights to the drug candidate. Merck will develop and commercialize Cubicin through its wholly owned subsidiary in Japan. Cubist commercializes Cubicin in the United States. MK 0431D is a combination of Januvia and Zocor for the treatment of diabetes and dyslipidemia which was accepted for standard review by the FDA in 2011. 66 In addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the Company has 19 drug candidates in Phase III development. Vorapaxar is a thrombin receptor antagonist or antiplatelet protease activated receptor 1 inhibitor being studied for the prevention and treatment of thrombosis. Merck was studying vorapaxar in two major clinical endpoint trials to evaluate the investigational medicine for the prevention of cardiac events: TRACER, a study in patients with acute coronary syndrome which has ended, and TRA 2P (also known as TIMI 50), a study in patients with prior heart attack, stroke and peripheral artery disease which is continuing in large part. Both studies were designed as event driven trials in which patients were planned to be followed for a minimum of one year, and both had completed enrollment. In January 2011, Merck announced that the combined DSMB for the two studies had reviewed the available safety and efficacy data, and made recommendations for study changes to the chairpersons of the steering committees for the two studies. The study chairpersons agreed to implement these changes, and as a result: in the TRACER study, patients were to discontinue study drug and investigators were to begin to close out the study in a timely and orderly fashion. In the TRA 2P study, study drug was continued in patients who had experienced a previous heart attack or peripheral arterial disease (approximately 75% of the patients enrolled in the study), and was immediately discontinued in patients who experienced a stroke prior to entry into the study or during the course of the study. Merck subsequently announced that the chairman of the TRA 2P study reported to investigators that the DSMB had communicated that based on all of the data (safety and efficacy) available to them from both trials, they recommended that subjects with a history of stroke not receive vorapaxar. The DSMB had observed an increase in intracranial hemorrhage in patients with a history of stroke that is not outweighed by their considerations of potential benefit. Merck plans to update its projections for regulatory filings for vorapaxar once the Company has received the efficacy and safety data from TRACER and can determine an updated completion date for TRA 2P. TRACER has accumulated the pre defined number of primary and major secondary endpoints, although not all patients will continue to receive study drug through the pre specified one year follow up. Merck continues to expect that the efficacy and safety data from TRACER will become available later in 2011 and will be submitted for presentation at appropriate medical meetings. As a result of these developments, the Company concluded there was a 2010 impairment triggering event related to the vorapaxar intangible asset. Although there is a great deal of information related to these developments that remains unknown to the Company, utilizing market participant assumptions and considering several different scenarios, the Company concluded that its best estimate of the current fair value of the intangible asset related to vorapaxar was $350 million, which resulted in the recognition of an impairment charge of $1.7 billion during 2010. The Company will continue to monitor the remaining asset value for further impairment. MK 8669, ridaforolimus, is a novel mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of cancer. Merck is currently developing ridaforolimus in multiple cancer indications under an exclusive license and collaboration agreement with ARIAD. In January 2011, ARIAD announced top line data showing that ridaforolimus met the primary endpoint of improved progression free survival compared to placebo in the Phase III SUCCEED trial conducted in patients with metastatic soft tissue or bone sarcomas who previously had a favorable response to chemotherapy. Complete findings from the SUCCEED trial will be submitted for presentation at an upcoming medical meeting in 2011. This trial remains active, and study participants continue to be followed to gather additional data on secondary endpoints, including overall survival and the safety profile of ridaforolimus. Merck currently plans to file an NDA with the FDA for oral ridaforolimus in 2011, subject to final collection and analysis of all available data from the trial. MK 2452, Saflutan (tafluprost), is a preservative free, synthetic analogue of the prostaglandin F2 for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. In April 2009, Old Merck and Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. announced a worldwide licensing agreement for tafluprost. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA for Saflutan in 2011. As previously disclosed, Old Merck submitted for filing an NDA with the FDA for MK 0653C, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin, which is an investigational medication for the treatment of dyslipidemia, and the FDA refused to file the application in 2009. The FDA has identified additional manufacturing and stability data that are needed; the Company anticipates filing an NDA in 2011. 67 As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced it was delaying the filing of the U.S. application for MK 0974, telcagepant, the Companys investigational calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist for the acute treatment of migraine. The decision was based on findings from a Phase IIa exploratory study in which a small number of patients taking telcagepant twice daily for three months for the prevention of migraine were found to have marked elevations in liver transaminases. The daily dosing regimen in the prevention study was different than the dosing regimen used in Phase III studies in which telcagepant was intermittently administered in one or two doses to treat individual migraine attacks as they occurred. Following meetings with regulatory agencies at the end of 2009, Merck is conducting an additional safety study as part of the overall Phase III program for telcagepant. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in 2011. SCH 900616, Bridion (sugammadex), is a medication designed to rapidly reverse the effects of certain muscle relaxants used as part of general anesthesia to ensure patients remain immobile during surgical procedures. Bridion has received regulatory approval in the EU, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and a number of other markets. Prior to the Merger, Schering Plough received a complete response letter from the FDA for Bridion. Following further communication from the FDA, the Company is assessing the agencys feedback in order to determine a new timetable for response. SCH 697243 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet (AIT) for grass pollen allergy for which the Company has North American rights. In March 2010, data from a Phase III study in children and adolescents (ages 5 17 years) with grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis were presented at the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma Immunology Annual Meeting. Allergic rhinoconjunctivitis, or runny nose and itchy, watery eyes due to allergies, is a common condition in children and adolescents. AIT is a dissolvable oral tablet that is designed to prevent allergy symptoms by inducing a protective immune response against allergies, thereby treating the underlying cause of the disease. Merck is investigating AIT for the treatment of grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis in both children and adults. The anticipated U.S. filing date for SCH 697243 is under assessment. SCH 039641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in Phase III development for the North American market. The anticipated filing date for SCH 039641 is under assessment. SCH 418131, Zenhale, is a fixed dose combination of two previously approved drugs for the treatment of asthma: mometasone furoate and formoterol fumarate dehydrate. In November 2010, the Company advised the European Medicines Agency (EMA) that it was withdrawing the application for marketing authorization for Zenhale, which has been approved for use in asthma patients 12 years of age and older in the United States as Dulera Inhalation Aerosol. The Company decided to withdraw the application for Zenhale to address questions outstanding between the Company and the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the EMA. The Company expects to resubmit the application in the future. MK 0431C, a candidate currently in Phase III clinical development, combines Januvia with pioglitazone, another type 2 diabetes therapy. The Company expects it will file an NDA for MK 0431C with the FDA in 2012. MK 0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once weekly investigational treatment for osteoporosis in post menopausal women. Osteoporosis is a disease which reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. Four year data on odanacatib were presented in October 2010 at the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research annual meeting. Clinical and preclinical studies continue to provide data on the potential of odanacatib to increase bone density, cortical thickness and bone strength when treating osteoporosis. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in 2012. V503 is a nine valent HPV vaccine in development to expand protection against cancer causing HPV types. The Phase III clinical program is underway and Merck anticipates filing a Biologics License Application (BLA) with the FDA in 2012. MK 0524A is a drug candidate that combines extended release niacin and a novel flushing inhibitor, laropiprant. MK 0524A has demonstrated the ability to lower LDL cholesterol (LDL C or bad cholesterol), 68 raise HDL cholesterol (HDL C or good cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with significantly less flushing than traditional extended release niacin alone. High LDL C, low HDL C and elevated triglycerides are risk factors associated with heart attacks and strokes. In April 2008, Old Merck received a non approvable action letter from the FDA in response to its NDA for MK 0524A. At a meeting to discuss the letter, the FDA stated that additional efficacy and safety data were required and suggested that Old Merck wait for the results of the Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence of Vascular Events (HPS2 THRIVE) cardiovascular outcomes study, which is expected to be completed in 2012. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA for MK 0524A in 2012. MK 0524A has been approved in more than 55 countries outside the United States for the treatment of dyslipidemia, particularly in patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia (characterized by elevated levels of LDL C and triglycerides and low HDL C) and in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial and non familial) and is marketed as Tredaptive (or as Cordaptive in certain countries). Tredaptive should be used in patients in combination with statins, when the cholesterol lowering effects of statin monotherapy is inadequate. Tredaptive can be used as monotherapy only in patients in whom statins are considered inappropriate or not tolerated. MK 0524B is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to raising HDL C and lowering triglycerides from extended release niacin combined with laropiprant with the proven benefits of simvastatin in one combination product. Merck will not seek approval for MK 0524B in the United States until it files its complete response relating to MK 0524A. MK 4305 is an investigational dual orexin receptor antagonist, a potential new approach to the treatment of chronic insomnia, currently in Phase III development. In June 2010, clinical results from a Phase IIb study were presented at the Annual Meeting of the Associated Professional Sleep Societies which showed MK 4305 was significantly more effective than placebo in improving overall sleep efficiency at night one and at the end of week four in patients with primary insomnia. MK 4305 was generally well tolerated in the study. Orexins are neuropeptides (chemical messengers) that are released by specialized neurons in the hypothalamus region of the brain and are believed to be an important regulator of the brains sleep wake process. Phase III trials studying the efficacy and safety of MK 4305 in elderly and non elderly insomnia patients are ongoing. Merck anticipates filing regulatory applications for MK 4305 in 2012. SCH 900962, Elonva, corifollitropin alpha injection, which has been approved in the EU for controlled ovarian stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the development of multiple follicles in women participating in an assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in Phase III development in the United States. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in 2012. SCH 420814, preladenant, is a selective adenosine 2a receptor antagonist in Phase III development for treatment of Parkinsons disease. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2012. V212 is an inactivated varicella zoster virus vaccine in Phase III development for prevention of herpes zoster. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2012. MK 0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) that is being investigated in lipid management to raise HDL C and reduce LDL C. In November 2010, researchers presented results from the Phase III DEFINE (Determining the EFficacy and Tolerability of CETP INhibition with AnacEtrapib) study with anacetrapib at the American Heart Association Scientific Sessions. In the trial of 1,623 patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) or CHD risk equivalents, anacetrapib showed no significant differences from placebo in the primary safety measures studied. There were no significant differences in mean changes in blood pressure between the anacetrapib and placebo treatment groups, nor were there any significant differences in serum electrolytes or aldosterone levels. During the 76 week treatment phase, the pre specified adjudicated cardiovascular endpoint (defined as cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, unstable angina or stroke) occurred in 16 anacetrapib treated patients (2.0%) compared with 21 placebo treated patients (2.6%). At 24 weeks, anacetrapib decreased LDL C by 40% and increased HDL C by 138% in patients already treated with a statin and at guideline recommended LDL C goal. Based on these results, the Company intends to move forward and study anacetrapib in a large cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2015. 69 The Company maintains a number of long term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. The Companys research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the Companys research and development resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific opportunity and commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major impact on human health, on developing best in class approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its new medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. Another important component of the Companys science based diversification is based on expanding the Companys portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and vaccines, but also biologics (peptides, small proteins, antibodies) and RNAi. Further, Merck has moved to diversify its portfolio through its Merck BioVentures division, which has the potential to harness the market opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by delivering high quality follow on biologic products to enhance access for patients worldwide. The Company will continue to pursue appropriate external licensing opportunities. The integration efforts for research and development continue to focus on integrating the research operations of the legacy companies, including providing an effective transition for employees, realizing projected merger synergies in the form of cost savings and revenue growth opportunities, and maintaining momentum in the Companys late stage pipeline. Overall, the Companys global operating model will align franchise and function as well as align resources with disease area priorities and balance capacity across discovery phases and allow the Company to act upon those programs with the highest probability of success. Additionally, across all disease area priorities, the Companys strategy is designed to expand access to worldwide external science and incorporate external research as a key component of the Companys early discovery pipeline in order to translate basic research productivity into late stage clinical success. The Companys clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, insomnia, migraine, neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis, psychiatric diseases, respiratory diseases and womens health. The Company supplements its internal research with an aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late stage compounds, as well as new technologies. In Process Research and Development In connection with the Merger, the Company recorded the fair value of human and animal health research projects that were underway at Schering Plough and the MSP Partnership. The fair value of projects allocated to the Pharmaceutical and Animal Health operating segments was $5.3 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to IPRD were determined by using an income approach, through which fair value is estimated based on each assets probability adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the different stages of development of each product and the associated probability of successful completion. The net cash flows are then discounted to present value using discount rates which ranged from 12% to 15%. Actual cash flows are likely to be different than those assumed. Some of the more significant projects include boceprevir, Bridion and vorapaxar, as well as an ezetimibe/atorvastatin combination product. These projects are discussed in further detail above. As noted above, the Company filed an NDA with the FDA in 2010 for boceprevir and anticipates filing an NDA for the ezetimibe/atorvastatin combination product with the FDA in 2011. The Company determined that the developments in the clinical research program for vorapaxar discussed above constituted a triggering event that required the Company to evaluate the vorapaxar intangible asset for impairment. Although there is a great deal of information related to these developments that remains unknown to the Company, utilizing market participant assumptions, and considering several different scenarios, the Company concluded that its best estimate of the current fair value of the intangible asset related to vorapaxar was $350 million, which resulted in the recognition of an impairment charge of $1.7 billion during 2010. The Company will continue to monitor the remaining asset value for impairment. The Company anticipates the results from the TRACER 70 clinical trial will be available later in 2011. Also during 2010, the Company recorded an additional $763 million of IPRD impairment charges attributable to compounds that were abandoned and determined to have either no alternative use or were returned to the respective licensor, as well as from expected delays in the launch timing or changes in the cash flow assumptions for certain compounds. The Company has also recognized intangible assets for the fair value of research projects underway in connection with the SmartCells, Inc. (SmartCells) acquisition during 2010 and the Insmed, Inc. acquisition in 2009 (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). All of the IPRD projects that remain in development are subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties in drug development and it is possible that the Company will not be able to successfully develop and complete the IPRD programs and profitably commercialize the underlying product candidates. The time periods to receive approvals from the FDA and other regulatory agencies are subject to uncertainty. Significant delays in the approval process, or the Companys failure to obtain approval at all, would delay or prevent the Company from realizing revenues from these products. Additionally, if certain of the IPRD programs fail or are abandoned during development, then the Company will not realize the future cash flows it has estimated and recorded as IPRD as of the merger or acquisition date, and the Company may also not recover the research and development expenditures made since the Merger to further develop such program. If such circumstances were to occur, the Companys future operating results could be adversely affected and the Company may recognize impairment charges and such charges could be material. Additional research and development will be required before any of the programs reach technological feasibility. The costs to complete the research projects will depend on whether the projects are brought to their final stages of development and are ultimately submitted to the FDA or other regulatory agencies for approval. As of December 31, 2010, the estimated costs to complete projects acquired in connection with the Merger in Phase III development for human health and the analogous stage of development for animal health were approximately $1.9 billion. Acquisitions, Research Collaborations and License Agreements Merck continues to remain focused on augmenting its internal efforts by capitalizing on growth opportunities that will drive both near and long term growth. During 2010, the Company completed transactions across a broad range of therapeutic categories, including early stage technology transactions. Merck is actively monitoring the landscape for growth opportunities that meet the Companys strategic criteria. Highlights from these activities include: In December 2010, the Company acquired all of the outstanding stock of SmartCells, a private company developing a glucose responsive insulin formulation for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. The total purchase consideration, which the Company determined had a fair value at the acquisition date of $138 million, included an upfront cash payment, contingent consideration consisting of future clinical development and regulatory milestones, as well as contingent consideration on future sales of products resulting from the acquisition. The transaction was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting; accordingly, the assets and liabilities were recorded at their respective fair values on the acquisition date. The determination of fair value requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions. In connection with the acquisition, substantially all of the preliminary purchase price was allocated to IPRD; the remaining net assets acquired were not significant. The fair value of the contingent consideration was determined by utilizing a probability weighted estimated cash flow stream adjusted for the expected timing of each payment. Subsequent to the acquisition date, on a quarterly basis, the contingent consideration liability will be remeasured at current fair value with changes recorded in earnings. The results of operations of SmartCells have been included in the Companys results of operations from the date of acquisition and were not significant. Certain estimated values are not yet finalized and may be subject to change. The Company expects to finalize these amounts as soon as possible, but no later than one year from the acquisition date. In February 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of Avecia Biologics Limited (Avecia) for a total purchase price of approximately $190 million. Avecia is a contract manufacturing organization with specific expertise in microbial derived biologics. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company acquired Avecia and all of its assets, including all of Avecias process development and scale up, manufacturing, quality and business support 71 operations located in Billingham, United Kingdom. The transaction was accounted for as a business combination; accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. The determination of fair value requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions. In connection with the acquisition, substantially all of the purchase price was allocated to Avecias property, plant and equipment and goodwill. The remaining net assets acquired were not material. This transaction closed on February 1, 2010, and accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in the Companys results of operations beginning after the acquisition date. Pro forma financial information has not been included because Avecias historical financial results are not significant when compared with the Companys financial results. In May 2010, Merck announced that it had restructured its co development and co commercialization agreement with ARIAD for ridaforolimus (MK 8669), an investigational orally available mTOR inhibitor currently being evaluated for the treatment of multiple cancer types, to an exclusive license agreement. Under the restructured agreement, Merck has acquired full control of the development and worldwide commercialization of ridaforolimus. ARIAD received a $50 million upfront fee, which the Company recorded as research and development expense in 2010, and is eligible to receive milestone payments associated with regulatory filings and approvals of ridaforolimus in multiple cancer indications and achievement of significant sales thresholds. In lieu of the profit split on U.S. sales provided for in the previous agreement, ARIAD will now receive royalties on global net sales of ridaforolimus, and all sales will be recorded by Merck. Merck has assumed responsibility for all activities and has acquired decision rights on matters relating to the development, manufacturing and commercialization of ridaforolimus. The Investigational New Drug Application has been transferred to Merck, and Merck will file the marketing application worldwide for any oncology indications and lead all interactions with regulatory agencies. The agreement is terminable by Merck upon nine months notice, or immediately upon a good faith determination of a serious safety issue. The agreement is terminable by either party as a result of insolvency by the other party or an uncured material breach by the other party or by ARIAD for a failure by Merck to perform certain product development responsibilities. Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information To expand its research base and realize synergies from combining capabilities, opportunities and assets, in previous years Old Merck formed a number of joint ventures. AstraZeneca LP In 1982, Old Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB (Astra) to develop and market Astras products under a royalty bearing license. In 1993, Old Mercks total sales of Astra products reached a level that triggered the first step in the establishment of a joint venture business carried on by Astra Merck Inc. (AMI), in which Old Merck and Astra each owned a 50% share. This joint venture, formed in 1994, developed and marketed most of Astras new prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec, the first of a class of medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining. In 1998, Old Merck and Astra completed the restructuring of the ownership and operations of the joint venture whereby Old Merck acquired Astras interest in AMI, renamed KBI Inc. (KBI), and contributed KBIs operating assets to a new U.S. limited partnership, Astra Pharmaceuticals L.P. (the Partnership), in exchange for a 1% limited partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP (AZLP) upon Astras 1999 merger with Zeneca Group Plc (the AstraZeneca merger), became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI retained rights. While maintaining a 1% limited partner interest in AZLP, Merck has consent and protective rights intended to preserve its business and economic interests, including restrictions on the power of the general partner to make certain distributions or dispositions. Furthermore, in limited events of default, additional rights will be granted to the Company, including powers to direct the actions of, or remove and replace, the Partnerships chief executive officer and chief financial officer. Merck earns ongoing revenue based on sales of KBI products and such revenue was $1.3 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.6 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. In addition, Merck earns certain Partnership returns which are recorded in Equity 72 income from affiliates. Such returns include a priority return provided for in the Partnership Agreement, variable returns based, in part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a preferential return representing Mercks share of undistributed AZLP GAAP earnings. These returns aggregated $546 million, $674 million and $598 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The AstraZeneca merger constituted a Trigger Event under the KBI restructuring agreements, which resulted in the partial redemption in 2008 of Old Mercks interest in certain AZLP product rights. Upon this redemption, Old Merck received $4.3 billion from AZLP. This amount was based primarily on a multiple of Old Mercks average annual variable returns derived from sales of the former Astra USA, Inc. products for the three years prior to the redemption (the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value). Old Merck recorded a $1.5 billion pretax gain on the partial redemption in 2008. The partial redemption of Old Mercks interest in the product rights did not result in a change in Old Mercks 1% limited partnership interest. As a result of the AstraZeneca merger, in exchange for Old Mercks relinquishment of rights to future Astra products with no existing or pending U.S. patents at the time of the merger, Astra paid $967 million (the Advance Payment). The Advance Payment was deferred as it remained subject to a true up calculation (the True Up Amount) that was directly dependent on the fair market value in March 2008 of the Astra product rights retained by Old Merck. The calculated True Up Amount of $243 million was returned to AZLP in 2008 and Old Merck recognized a pretax gain of $724 million related to the residual Advance Payment balance. Under the provisions of the KBI restructuring agreements, because a Trigger Event has occurred, the sum of the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value, the Appraised Value (as discussed below) and the True Up Amount was guaranteed to be a minimum of $4.7 billion. Distribution of the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value less payment of the True Up Amount resulted in cash receipts to Old Merck of $4.0 billion and an aggregate pretax gain of $2.2 billion which was included in Other (income) expense, net in 2008. Also, in March 2008, the $1.38 billion outstanding loan from Astra plus interest through the redemption date was settled. As a result of these transactions, Old Merck received net proceeds from AZLP of $2.6 billion in 2008. In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring discussed above, Astra purchased an option (the Asset Option) for a payment of $443 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to buy Old Mercks interest in the KBI products, excluding the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec (the Non PPI Products). In April 2010, AstraZeneca exercised the Asset Option. Merck received $647 million from AstraZeneca representing the net present value as of March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be received by Old Merck from the Non PPI Products (the Appraised Value), which was recorded as a reduction to the Companys investment in AZLP. The Company recognized the $443 million of deferred income in 2010 as a component of Other (income) expense, net. In addition, in 1998, Old Merck granted Astra an option (the Shares Option) to buy Old Mercks common stock interest in KBI and, therefore, Old Mercks interest in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable in 2012. The exercise price for the Shares Option will be based on the net present value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec as determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain true up mechanisms. The Company believes that it is likely that AstraZeneca will exercise the Shares Option. Merck/Schering Plough Partnership In 2000, Old Merck and Schering Plough (collectively, the Partners) entered into an agreement to create an equally owned partnership to develop and market in the United States new prescription medicines for cholesterol management. In 2002, ezetimibe, the first in a new class of cholesterol lowering agents, was launched in the United States as Zetia (marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States). In 2004, a combination product containing the active ingredients of both Zetia and Zocor was approved in the United States as Vytorin (marketed as Inegy outside of the United States). The cholesterol agreements provided for the sharing of operating income generated by the MSP Partnership based upon percentages that varied by product, sales level and country. Operating income included expenses that the Partners contractually agreed to share. Expenses incurred in support of the MSP Partnership but not shared between the Partners were not included in Equity income from affiliates; however, these costs were reflected in the overall results of the Partners. 73 Sales of joint venture products were as follows(1): 2009 ($ in millions) Pre Merger Post Merger Total 2008 Vytorin $ 1,689 $ 371 $ 2,060 $ 2,360 Zetia 1,698 370 2,068 2,201 $ 3,387 $ 741 $ 4,128 $ 4,561 (1) Amounts exclude sales of these products by the Partners outside of the MSP Partnership. The results from Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership prior to the Merger are reflected in Equity income from affiliates and were $1.2 billion in 2009 and $1.5 billion in 2008. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is wholly owned by the Company. Activity resulting from the sale of MSP Partnership products after the Merger has been consolidated with Mercks results. For a discussion of the performance of these products in 2010, see Sales above. Merial Limited In 1997, Old Merck and Rhne Poulenc S.A. (now sanofi aventis) combined their animal health businesses to form Merial Limited (Merial), a fully integrated animal health company, which was a stand alone joint venture, 50% owned by each party. Merial provides a comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to enhance the health, well being and performance of a wide range of animal species. On September 17, 2009, Old Merck sold its 50% interest in Merial to sanofi aventis for $4.0 billion in cash. The sale resulted in the recognition of a $3.2 billion pretax gain in 2009 reflected in Other income (expense), net. In connection with the sale of Merial, Old Merck, sanofi aventis and Schering Plough signed a call option agreement, which provided sanofi aventis with an option to require the Company to combine its Intervet/Schering Plough Animal Health business with Merial to form an animal health joint venture that would be owned equally by the Company and sanofi aventis. In March 2010, sanofi aventis exercised its option. As part of the call option agreement, the value of Merial has been fixed at $8.0 billion. The minimum total value to be received by the Company for contributing Intervet/Schering Plough to the combined entity would be $9.25 billion (subject to customary transaction adjustments), consisting of a floor valuation of Intervet/Schering Plough which is fixed at a minimum of $8.5 billion (which was subject to potential upward revision based on a valuation exercise by the two parties) and an additional payment by sanofi aventis of $750 million. Upon completion of the valuation exercise, the parties agreed that a future payment of $250 million would be made by sanofi aventis to the Company in addition to the $750 million payment referred to above. All payments, including adjustments for debt and certain other liabilities, will be made upon closing of the transaction. The formation of this new animal health joint venture with sanofi aventis is subject to execution of final agreements, regulatory review in the United States, Europe and other countries and other customary closing conditions. On March 30, 2010, the parties signed the contribution agreement which obligates them, subject to regulatory approval, to form the joint venture. The Company expects the transaction to close in the third quarter of 2011. The Companys agreement with sanofi aventis provides that if the transaction has not been consummated by March 30, 2011 either party may terminate the proposed joint venture without paying a break up fee or other penalty. Sales of joint venture products were as follows: ($ in millions) 2009(1) 2008 Fipronil products $ 784 $ 1,053 Biological products 525 790 Avermectin products 341 512 Other products 200 288 $ 1,850 $ 2,643 (1) Amounts for 2009 include sales until the September 17, 2009 divestiture date. 74 Sanofi Pasteur MSD In 1994, Old Merck and Pasteur Mrieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) established an equally owned joint venture to market vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in Europe. Sales of joint venture products were as follows: ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Gardasil $ 350 $ 549 $ 865 Influenza vaccines 220 249 230 Other viral vaccines 93 112 105 RotaTeq 42 42 28 Hepatitis vaccines 25 44 73 Other vaccines 487 593 584 $ 1,217 $ 1,589 $ 1,885 Johnson JohnsonMerck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company In 1989, Old Merck formed a joint venture with Johnson Johnson to develop and market a broad range of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50% owned venture was subsequently expanded into Canada. Significant joint venture products are Pepcid AC, an over the counter form of the Companys ulcer medication Pepcid, as well as Pepcid Complete, an over the counter product which combines the Companys ulcer medication with antacids. Sales of joint venture products were as follows: ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Gastrointestinal products $ 128 $ 202 $ 211 Other products 1 1 1 $ 129 $ 203 $ 212 Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures were $1.7 billion in 2010, $1.5 billion in 2009 and $1.3 billion in 2008. Expenditures in the United States were $990 million in 2010, $982 million in 2009 and $947 million in 2008. Capital expenditures for 2011 are estimated to be $1.9 billion. Depreciation expense was $2.6 billion in 2010, $1.7 billion in 2009 and $1.4 billion in 2008 of which $1.7 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, applied to locations in the United States. Total depreciation expense in 2010, 2009 and 2008 included accelerated depreciation of $849 million, $348 million and $217 million, respectively, associated with restructuring activities (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Analysis of Liquidity and Capital Resources Mercks strong financial profile enables it to fully fund research and development, focus on external alliances, support in line products and maximize upcoming launches while providing significant cash returns to shareholders. Selected Data ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Working capital $ 13,423 $ 12,791 $ 4,794 Total debt to total liabilities and equity 16.9 % 15.6 % 13.2 % Cash provided by operations to total debt 0.6:1 0.2:1 1.1:1 75 Cash provided by operating activities was $10.8 billion in 2010, $3.4 billion in 2009 and $6.6 billion in 2008. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2010 as compared with 2009 primarily reflects the inclusion of a full year of legacy Schering Plough operations, as well as $4.1 billion of payments in 2009 into the Vioxx settlement funds and a $660 million payment in 2009 made in connection with the previously disclosed settlement with the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA). Cash provided by operating activities in 2008 reflects $2.1 billion received in connection with a partial redemption of Old Mercks partnership interest in AZLP, representing a distribution of Old Mercks accumulated earnings on its investment in AZLP since inception. Cash provided by operating activities in 2008 was also affected by a $675 million payment made in connection with the previously disclosed resolution of investigations of civil claims by federal and state authorities relating to certain past marketing and selling activities and $750 million of payments into the Vioxx settlement funds. Cash provided by operating activities continues to be the Companys primary source of funds to finance operating needs, capital expenditures, treasury stock purchases and dividends paid to shareholders. The global economic downturn and the sovereign debt issues, among other factors, have caused foreign receivables to deteriorate in 2010 in certain European countries. While the Company continues to receive payment on these receivables, these conditions may continue to result in an increase in the average length of time it takes to collect on the accounts receivable outstanding which can impact cash provided by operating activities. Cash used in investing activities was $3.5 billion in 2010 compared with cash provided by investing activities of $3.2 billion in 2009. The change reflects lower proceeds from the sales of securities and other investments and higher purchases of securities and other investments in 2010, as well as a decrease in restricted assets, and proceeds from the disposition of Old Mercks interest in Merial in 2009, partially offset by the use of cash in 2009 to fund the Merger and the proceeds received in 2010 related to AstraZenecas asset option exercise. Cash provided by investing activities was $3.2 billion in 2009 compared with cash used in investing activities of $1.8 billion in 2008. The change was primarily driven by the release of restricted cash primarily due to the release of pledged collateral for certain Vioxx related matters, lower purchases of securities and other investments and proceeds from the 2009 disposition of Old Mercks interest in Merial. These increases in cash used in investing activities were partially offset by the use of cash in 2009 to fund the Merger, as well as by a 2008 distribution from AZLP representing a return of Old Mercks investment in AZLP. Cash used in financing activities was $5.4 billion in 2010 compared with $1.6 billion in 2009 reflecting lower proceeds from the issuance of debt, purchases of treasury stock in 2010, increased dividends paid to stockholders and higher payments on debt, partially offset by an increase in short term borrowings. Cash used in financing activities was $1.6 billion in 2009 compared with $5.5 billion in 2008 reflecting higher proceeds from the issuance of debt, no purchases of treasury stock and lower payments on debt, partially offset by a net decrease in short term borrowings. Dividends paid to stockholders were $4.7 billion in 2010, $3.2 billion in 2009 and $3.3 billion in 2008. At December 31, 2010, the total of worldwide cash and investments was $14.4 billion, including $12.2 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, and $2.2 billion of long term investments. A large portion of the cash and investments are held in foreign jurisdictions. Working capital levels are more than adequate to meet the operating requirements of the Company. As previously disclosed, in October 2006, the CRA issued Old Merck a notice of reassessment containing adjustments related to certain intercompany pricing matters. In February 2009, Old Merck and the CRA negotiated a settlement agreement in regard to these matters. In accordance with the settlement, Old Merck paid an additional tax of approximately $300 million (U.S. dollars) and interest of approximately $360 million (U.S. dollars) with no additional amounts or penalties due on this assessment. The settlement was accounted for in the first quarter of 2009. Old Merck had previously established reserves for these matters. A significant portion of the taxes paid is expected to be creditable for U.S. tax purposes. The resolution of these matters did not have a material effect on Old Mercks financial position or liquidity, other than with respect to the associated collateral as discussed below. In addition, as previously disclosed, the CRA has proposed additional adjustments for 1999 and 2000 relating to other intercompany pricing matters. The adjustments would increase Canadian tax due by approximately $317 million (U.S. dollars) plus approximately $340 million (U.S. dollars) of interest through December 31, 2010. The Company disagrees with the positions taken by the CRA and believes they are without merit. The Company 76 continues to contest the assessments through the CRA appeals process. The CRA is expected to prepare similar adjustments for later years. Management believes that resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on the Companys financial position or liquidity. In connection with the appeals process discussed above related to 1999 and 2000, Old Merck pledged cash and investments as collateral to two financial institutions, one of which provided a guarantee to the CRA and the other to the Quebec Ministry of Revenue representing a portion of the tax and interest assessed. The guarantee to the Quebec Ministry of Revenue expired in the first quarter of 2009. The collateral associated with the guarantee to the CRA totaled approximately $290 million at December 31, 2009 and was included in Deferred income taxes and other current assets and Other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. During 2010, this guarantee was replaced with a guarantee that is not collateralized. Accordingly, the collateral associated with the original guarantee was released and reclassified to cash and investments. The IRS has finalized its examination of Schering Ploughs 2003 2006 tax years. In this audit cycle, the Company reached an agreement with the IRS on an adjustment to income related to intercompany pricing matters. This income adjustment mostly reduced NOLs and other tax credit carryforwards. Additionally, the Company is seeking resolution of one issue raised during this examination through the IRS administrative appeals process. The Companys reserves for uncertain tax positions were adequate to cover all adjustments related to this examination period. The IRS began its examination of the 2007 2009 tax years for the Company in 2010. The IRSs examination of Old Mercks 2002 2005 federal income tax returns is ongoing and is expected to conclude within the next 12 months. The Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010 are as follows: Payments Due by Period ($ in millions) Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Purchase obligations $ 3,862 $ 2,583 $ 800 $ 404 $ 75 Loans payable and current portion of long term debt 2,400 2,400 Long term debt 14,832 1,811 4,101 8,920 Interest related to debt obligations 9,347 761 1,454 1,120 6,012 Unrecognized tax benefits(1) 903 903 Operating leases 879 247 329 178 125 $ 32,223 $ 6,894 $ 4,394 $ 5,803 $ 15,132 (1) As of December 31, 2010, the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, interest and penalties of $6.2 billion, including $903 million reflected as a current liability. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits beyond one year, a reasonable estimate of the period of cash settlement for years beyond 2011 can not be made. Purchase obligations consist primarily of goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding and include obligations for minimum inventory contracts, research and development and advertising. Amounts reflected for research and development obligations do not include contingent milestone payments. Loans payable and current portion of long term debt also reflects $496 million of long dated notes that are subject to repayment at the option of the holders on an annual basis. Required funding obligations for 2011 relating to the Companys pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material. However, the Company currently anticipates contributing approximately $800 million and $60 million, respectively, to its pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans during 2011. The table above does not reflect the $950 million Vioxx Liability Reserve recorded in connection with the anticipated resolution of the DOJs investigation related to Vioxx. The Companys discussions with the government are ongoing and until they are concluded there can be no certainty about a definitive resolution or the timing of any potential payment. In December 2010, Merck closed an underwritten public offering of $2.0 billion senior unsecured notes consisting of $850 million aggregate principal amount of 2.25% notes due 2016 and $1.15 billion aggregate 77 principal amount of 3.875% notes due 2021. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually. The notes of each series are redeemable in whole or in part at any time, at the Companys option at varying redemption prices. Proceeds from the notes were used for general corporate purposes, including the reduction of short term debt. In December 2009, the Company filed a securities registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the automatic shelf registration process available to well known seasoned issuers which is effective for three years. During 2010, the Company executed a new $2.0 billion, 364 day credit facility and terminated both Old Mercks $1.0 billion incremental facility due to expire in November 2010 and its $1.5 billion revolving credit facility scheduled to mature in April 2013. The Companys $2.0 billion credit facility maturing in August 2012 remains outstanding. Both outstanding facilities provide backup liquidity for the Companys commercial paper borrowing facility and are to be used for general corporate purposes. The Company has not drawn funding from either facility. In connection with the Merger, effective as of November 3, 2009, New Merck executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of Old Merck and Old Merck executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of New Merck (excluding commercial paper), including for payments of principal and interest. These guarantees do not extend to debt issued subsequent to the Merger. The Companys long term credit ratings assigned by Moodys Investors Service and Standard Poors are Aa3 with a stable outlook and AA with a stable outlook, respectively. These ratings continue to allow access to the capital markets and flexibility in obtaining funds on competitive terms. The Company continues to maintain a conservative financial profile. The Company places its cash and investments in instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in its investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Despite this strong financial profile, certain contingent events, if realized, which are discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys liquidity and capital resources. The Company does not participate in any off balance sheet arrangements involving unconsolidated subsidiaries that provide financing or potentially expose the Company to unrecorded financial obligations. In November 2010 and February 2011, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.38 per share on the Companys common stock for the first and second quarters of 2011, respectively. In November 2009, the Board of Directors approved purchases over time of up to $3.0 billion of Mercks common stock for its treasury. The Company purchased $1.6 billion of its common stock under this program during 2010. No purchases of treasury stock were made in 2009. Old Merck purchased $2.7 billion of treasury stock in 2008 under a previous program approved by Old Mercks Board of Directors in July 2002. Financial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures The Company manages the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on its earnings, cash flows and fair values of assets and liabilities through operational means and through the use of various financial instruments, including derivative instruments. A significant portion of the Companys revenues and earnings in foreign affiliates is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. The objectives and accounting related to the Companys foreign currency risk management program, as well as its interest rate risk management activities are discussed below. Foreign Currency Risk Management A significant portion of the Companys revenues are denominated in foreign currencies. The Company has established revenue hedging and balance sheet risk management programs to protect against volatility of future foreign currency cash flows and changes in fair value caused by volatility in foreign exchange rates. The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the potential for longer term unfavorable changes in foreign exchange to decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash flows derived from foreign currency 78 denominated sales, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. To achieve this objective, the Company will partially hedge forecasted foreign currency denominated third party and intercompany distributor entity sales that are expected to occur over its planning cycle, typically no more than three years into the future. The Company will layer in hedges over time, increasing the portion of third party and intercompany distributor entity sales hedged as it gets closer to the expected date of the forecasted foreign currency denominated sales, such that it is probable the hedged transaction will occur. The portion of sales hedged is based on assessments of cost benefit profiles that consider natural offsetting exposures, revenue and exchange rate volatilities and correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The hedged anticipated sales are a specified component of a portfolio of similarly denominated foreign currency based sales transactions, each of which responds to the hedged risk in the same manner. The Company manages its anticipated transaction exposure principally with purchased local currency put options, which provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation, to sell foreign currencies in the future at a predetermined price. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, total changes in the options cash flows offset the decline in the expected future U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the options value reduces to zero, but the Company benefits from the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows. The Company also utilizes forward contracts in its revenue hedging program. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, the increase in the fair value of the forward contracts offsets the decrease in the expected future U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the decrease in the fair value of the forward contracts offsets the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows. While a weaker U.S. dollar would result in a net benefit, the market value of Mercks hedges would have declined by an estimated $256 million and $245 million, respectively, from a uniform 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The market value was determined using a foreign exchange option pricing model and holding all factors except exchange rates constant. Because Merck principally uses purchased local currency put options, a uniform weakening of the U.S. dollar would yield the largest overall potential loss in the market value of these options. The sensitivity measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not affect other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near term changes in Mercks major foreign currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The primary objective of the balance sheet risk management program is to mitigate the exposure of foreign currency denominated net monetary assets of foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange that might occur prior to their conversion to U.S. dollars. In these instances, Merck principally utilizes forward exchange contracts, which enable the Company to buy and sell foreign currencies in the future at fixed exchange rates and economically offset the consequences of changes in foreign exchange from the monetary assets. Merck routinely enters into contracts to offset the effects of exchange on exposures denominated in developed country currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. For exposures in developing country currencies, the Company will enter into forward contracts to partially offset the effects of exchange on exposures when it is deemed economical to do so based on a cost benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate and the cost of the hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the effect of exchange on monetary assets and liabilities by managing operating activities and net asset positions at the local level. When applicable, the Company uses forward contracts to hedge the changes in fair value of certain foreign currency denominated available for sale securities attributable to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These derivative contracts are designated as fair value hedges. A sensitivity analysis to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar on foreign currency denominated derivatives, investments and monetary assets and liabilities indicated that if the U.S. dollar uniformly weakened by 10% against all currency exposures of the Company at December 31, 2010, Income before taxes would have declined by approximately $127 million in 2010. Because the Company was in a net short position relative to its major foreign currencies after consideration of forward contracts, a uniform weakening of the U.S. dollar will yield the largest overall potential net loss in earnings due to exchange. At December 31, 2009, the Company was in a net long position relative to its major foreign currencies after consideration of forward contracts, therefore a uniform 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar would have reduced Income before taxes by $11 million. This measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the 79 U.S. dollar would not affect other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near term changes in Mercks major foreign currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Effective January 1, 2010, the Company was required to remeasure its local currency operations in Venezuela to U.S. dollars as the Venezuelan economy was determined to be hyperinflationary. Effective January 11, 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency from at BsF 2.15 per U.S. dollar to a two tiered official exchange rate at (1) the essentials rate at BsF 2.60 per U.S. dollar and (2) the non essentials rate at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. Throughout 2010, the Company settled transactions at the essentials rate and therefore remeasured monetary assets and liabilities utilizing the essentials rate. In December 2010, the Venezuelan government announced it would eliminate the essentials rate and effective January 1, 2011, all transactions would be settled at the official rate of at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. As a result of this announcement, the Company remeasured its December 31, 2010 monetary assets and liabilities at the new official rate. Foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency debt. The Companys senior unsecured euro denominated notes have been designated as, and are effective as, economic hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation. Accordingly, foreign currency transaction gains or losses on the euro denominated debt instruments are included in foreign currency translation adjustment within other comprehensive income (OCI). In 2010, the Company began using forward exchange contracts to hedge its net investment in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. The forward contracts are designated as hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation. The Company hedges a portion of the net investments in certain of its foreign operations and measures ineffectiveness based upon changes in spot foreign exchange rates. The effective portion of the unrealized gains or losses on these contracts is recorded in foreign currency translation adjustment within OCI and remains in OCI until either the sale or complete or substantially complete liquidation of the subsidiary. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as investing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Interest Rate Risk Management In addition to the revenue hedging and balance sheet risk management programs, the Company may use interest rate swap contracts on certain investing and borrowing transactions to manage its net exposure to interest rate changes and to reduce its overall cost of borrowing. The Company does not use leveraged swaps and, in general, does not leverage any of its investment activities that would put principal capital at risk. At December 31, 2010, the Company was a party to 13 pay floating, receive fixed interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges of fixed rate notes in which the notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed rate notes. There are two swaps maturing in 2011 with notional amounts of $125 million each that effectively convert the Companys $250 million, 5.125% fixed rate notes due 2011 to floating rate instruments and five swaps maturing in 2015 with notional amounts of $150 million each that effectively convert $750 million of the Companys $1.0 billion, 4.0% fixed rate notes due 2015 to floating rate instruments. In addition, there are six swaps maturing in 2016, two of which have notional amounts of $175 million each, and four of which have notional amounts of $125 million each, that effectively convert the Companys $850 million, 2.25% fixed rate notes due 2016 to floating rate instruments. In February 2011, the Company entered into nine additional pay floating, receive fixed interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges for fixed rate notes in which the notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed rate notes. There are four swaps maturing in 2015, two of which have notional amounts of $250 million each, and one of which has a notional amount of $500 million, that effectively convert the Companys $1.0 billion, 4.75% fixed rate notes due 2015 to floating rate instruments, and one swap which has a notional amount of $250 million, that effectively converts the remainder of the Companys $1.0 billion, 4.0% fixed rate notes due in 2015 to floating rate instruments. There are two swaps maturing in 2017, with notional amounts of $600 million and $400 million that effectively convert the $1.0 billion, 6.0% fixed rate notes due in 2017 to floating rate instruments. There are three swaps maturing in 2019, two of which have notional amounts of $500 million each, 80 and one of which has a notional amount of $250 million, that effectively convert the Companys $1.25 billion, 5.0% fixed rate notes due in 2019 to floating rate instruments. The interest rate swap contracts are designated hedges of the fair value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the benchmark London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) swap rate. The fair value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate are recorded in interest expense and offset by the fair value changes in the swap contracts. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The Companys investment portfolio includes cash equivalents and short term investments, the market values of which are not significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The market value of the Companys medium to long term fixed rate investments is modestly affected by changes in U.S. interest rates. Changes in medium to long term U.S. interest rates have a more significant impact on the market value of the Companys fixed rate borrowings, which generally have longer maturities. A sensitivity analysis to measure potential changes in the market value of Mercks investments, debt and related swap contracts from a change in interest rates indicated that a one percentage point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2010 and 2009 would have positively affected the net aggregate market value of these instruments by $1.0 billion and $990 million, respectively. A one percentage point decrease at December 31, 2010 and 2009 would have negatively affected the net aggregate market value by $1.2 billion in each year. The fair value of Mercks debt was determined using pricing models reflecting one percentage point shifts in the appropriate yield curves. The fair values of Mercks investments were determined using a combination of pricing and duration models. Critical Accounting Policies and Other Matters The Companys consolidated financial statements include certain amounts that are based on managements best estimates and judgments. Estimates are used when accounting for amounts recorded in connection with mergers and acquisitions, including fair value determinations of assets and liabilities primarily IPRD and other intangible assets. Additionally, estimates are used in determining such items as current fair values of goodwill, in process research and development and other intangibles, as well as provisions for sales discounts and returns, depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of inventories, including those produced in preparation for product launches, amounts recorded for contingencies, environmental liabilities and other reserves, pension and other postretirement benefit plan assumptions, share based compensation assumptions, restructuring costs, impairments of long lived assets (including intangible assets and goodwill) and investments, and taxes on income. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Application of the following accounting policies result in accounting estimates having the potential for the most significant impact on the financial statements. Mergers and Acquisitions In a business combination, the acquisition method of accounting requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of the merger or acquisition at their respective fair values with limited exceptions. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies are recognized at fair value if fair value can reasonably be estimated. If the acquisition date fair value of an asset acquired or liability assumed that arises from a contingency cannot be determined, the asset or liability is recognized if probable and reasonably estimable; if these criteria are not met, no asset or liability is recognized. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Accordingly, the Company may be required to value assets at fair value measures that do not reflect the Companys intended use of those assets. Any excess of the purchase price (consideration transferred) over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Transaction costs and costs to restructure the acquired company are expensed as incurred. The operating results of the acquired business are reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements after the date of the merger or acquisition. If the Company determines the assets acquired do not meet the definition of a business under the acquisition method of accounting, the transaction will be accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than a business combination, and therefore, no goodwill will be recorded. The fair value of intangible assets, including acquired IPRD, is based 81 on significant judgments made by management, and accordingly, for significant items, the Company typically obtains assistance from third party valuation specialists. Amounts allocated to acquired IPRD are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite lived intangible assets, subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the projects. Upon successful completion of each project, Merck will make a separate determination as to the then useful life of the asset and begin amortization. The valuations and useful life assumptions are based on information available near the merger or acquisition date and are based on expectations and assumptions that are deemed reasonable by management. The judgments made in determining estimated fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially affect the Companys results of operations. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to currently marketed products and product rights are primarily determined by using an income approach, through which fair value is estimated based on each assets discounted projected net cash flows. The Companys estimates of market participant net cash flows consider historical and projected pricing, margins and expense levels; the performance of competing products where applicable; relevant industry and therapeutic area growth drivers and factors; current and expected trends in technology and product life cycles; the time and investment that will be required to develop products and technologies; the ability to obtain marketing and regulatory approvals; the ability to manufacture and commercialize the products; the extent and timing of potential new product introductions by the Companys competitors; and the life of each assets underlying patent, if any. The net cash flows are then probability adjusted where appropriate to consider the uncertainties associated with the underlying assumptions, as well as the risk profile of the net cash flows utilized in the valuation. The probability adjusted future net cash flows of each product are then discounted to present value utilizing an appropriate discount rate. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to IPRD are determined using an income approach, through which fair value is estimated based on each assets probability adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the different stages of development of each product and the associated probability of successful completion. The net cash flows are then discounted to present value using an appropriate discount rate. Revenue Recognition Revenues from sales of products are recognized at the time of delivery when title and risk of loss passes to the customer. Recognition of revenue also requires reasonable assurance of collection of sales proceeds and completion of all performance obligations. Domestically, sales discounts are issued to customers as direct discounts at the point of sale or indirectly through an intermediary wholesaler, known as chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of return under certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for sales discounts and returns, which are established at the time of sale. The provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts covers chargebacks and rebates. Chargebacks are discounts that occur when a contracted customer purchases directly through an intermediary wholesaler. The contracted customer generally purchases product at its contracted price plus a mark up from the wholesaler. The wholesaler, in turn, charges the Company back for the difference between the price initially paid by the wholesaler and the contract price paid to the wholesaler by the customer. The provision for chargebacks is based on expected sell through levels by the Companys wholesale customers to contracted customers, as well as estimated wholesaler inventory levels. Rebates are amounts owed based upon definitive contractual agreements or legal requirements with private sector and public sector (Medicaid and Medicare Part D) benefit providers, after the final dispensing of the product by a pharmacy to a benefit plan participant. The provision is based on expected payments, which are driven by patient usage and contract performance by the benefit provider customers. The Company uses historical customer segment mix, adjusted for other known events, in order to estimate the expected provision. Amounts accrued for aggregate indirect customer discounts are evaluated on a quarterly basis through comparison of information provided by the wholesalers, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other customers to the amounts accrued. Adjustments are recorded when trends or significant events indicate that a change in the estimated provision is appropriate. The Company continually monitors its provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts. There were no material adjustments to estimates associated with the aggregate indirect customer discount provision in 2010, 2009 or 2008. 82 Summarized information about changes in the aggregate indirect customer discount accrual is as follows: ($ in millions) 2010 2009 Balance January 1 $ 1,373 $ 616 Current provision 4,702 2,542 Schering Plough accrual assumed in the Merger 584 Adjustments to prior years (9 ) (22 ) Payments (4,759 ) (2,347 ) Balance December 31 $ 1,307 $ 1,373 Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct reduction to accounts receivable and accruals for rebates as current liabilities. The accrued balances relative to these provisions included in Accounts receivable and Accrued and other current liabilities were $117 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010 and $115 million and $1.3 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. The Company maintains a returns policy that allows its U.S. pharmaceutical customers to return product within a specified period prior to and subsequent to the expiration date (generally, three to six months before and twelve months after product expiration). The estimate of the provision for returns is based upon historical experience with actual returns. Additionally, the Company considers factors such as levels of inventory in the distribution channel, product dating and expiration period, whether products have been discontinued, entrance in the market of additional generic competition, changes in formularies or launch of over the counter products, among others. The product returns provision for U.S. pharmaceutical sales was approximately 1.0% of net sales in 2010 and 2009 and was not significant in 2008. Through its distribution programs with U.S. wholesalers, the Company encourages wholesalers to align purchases with underlying demand and maintain inventories below specified levels. The terms of the programs allow the wholesalers to earn fees upon providing visibility into their inventory levels as well as by achieving certain performance parameters, such as, inventory management, customer service levels, reducing shortage claims and reducing product returns. Information provided through the wholesaler distribution programs includes items such as sales trends, inventory on hand, on order quantity and product returns. Wholesalers generally provide only the above mentioned data to the Company, as there is no regulatory requirement to report lot level information to manufacturers, which is the level of information needed to determine the remaining shelf life and original sale date of inventory. Given current wholesaler inventory levels, which are generally less than a month, the Company believes that collection of order lot information across all wholesale customers would have limited use in estimating sales discounts and returns. Inventories Produced in Preparation for Product Launches The Company capitalizes inventories produced in preparation for product launches sufficient to support estimated initial market demand. Typically, capitalization of such inventory does not begin until the related product candidates are in Phase III clinical trials and are considered to have a high probability of regulatory approval. The Company monitors the status of each respective product within the regulatory approval process; however, the Company generally does not disclose specific timing for regulatory approval. If the Company is aware of any specific risks or contingencies other than the normal regulatory approval process or if there are any specific issues identified during the research process relating to safety, efficacy, manufacturing, marketing or labeling, the related inventory would generally not be capitalized. Expiry dates of the inventory are affected by the stage of completion. The Company manages the levels of inventory at each stage to optimize the shelf life of the inventory in relation to anticipated market demand in order to avoid product expiry issues. For inventories that are capitalized, anticipated future sales and shelf lives support the realization of the inventory value as the inventory shelf life is sufficient to meet initial product launch requirements. Inventories produced in preparation for product launches capitalized at December 31, 2010 were $197 million and at December 31, 2009 were $87 million. Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business, including product liability, intellectual property and commercial litigation, as well as additional matters 83 such as antitrust actions. (See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.) The Company records accruals for contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These accruals are adjusted periodically as assessments change or additional information becomes available. For product liability claims, a portion of the overall accrual is actuarially determined and considers such factors as past experience, number of claims reported and estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Individually significant contingent losses are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had an aggregate reserve of approximately $110 million (the Vioxx Legal Defense Costs Reserve) solely for future legal defense costs related to (i) the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, (ii) the Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits, (iii) the Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the Vioxx Investigations (collectively, the Vioxx Litigation) (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). During 2010, Merck spent approximately $140 million in the aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide, including approximately $31 million in the fourth quarter of 2010, related to the Vioxx Litigation. In addition, during 2010, Merck recorded charges of $106 million of charges, including $46 million in the fourth quarter, solely for its future legal defense costs for the Vioxx Litigation. Consequently, as of December 31, 2010, the aggregate amount of the Vioxx Legal Defense Costs Reserve was approximately $76 million, which is solely for future legal defense costs for the Vioxx Litigation. Some of the significant factors considered in the review of the Vioxx Legal Defense Costs Reserve were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company; the development of the Companys legal defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of the Vioxx Litigation, including the Settlement Agreement and the expectation that certain lawsuits will continue to be pending; the number of cases being brought against the Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most current information regarding anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre trial activities and trials in the Vioxx Litigation. The amount of the Vioxx Legal Defense Costs Reserve as of December 31, 2010 represents the Companys best estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs to be incurred in connection with the remaining aspects of the Vioxx Litigation; however, events such as additional trials in the Vioxx Litigation and other events that could arise in the course of the Vioxx Litigation could affect the ultimate amount of defense costs to be incurred by the Company. The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves and may determine to increase the Vioxx Legal Defense Costs Reserve at any time in the future if, based upon the factors set forth, it believes it would be appropriate to do so. There are three U.S. Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits currently scheduled for trial in 2011. The Company cannot predict the timing of any other trials related to the Vioxx Litigation. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the Vioxx Lawsuits and will vigorously defend against them. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the claimants seek indeterminate damages, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits not included in the Settlement Program. Other than the Vioxx Liability Reserve established with respect to the Department of Justice (DOJ) investigation noted below, the Company has not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the Vioxx Lawsuits or the Vioxx Investigations. Unfavorable outcomes in the Vioxx Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, liquidity and results of operations. In addition to the Vioxx Legal Defense Costs Reserve, in 2010, the Company established a $950 million Vioxx Liability Reserve in connection with the anticipated resolution of the DOJs investigation related to Vioxx. The Companys discussions with the government are ongoing. Until they are concluded, there can be no certainty about a definitive resolution. The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents. When a legitimate claim for contribution is asserted, a liability is initially accrued based upon the estimated transaction costs to manage the site. Accruals are adjusted as site investigations, feasibility studies and related cost assessments of remedial techniques are completed, and as the extent to which other potentially responsible parties who may be jointly and severally liable can be expected to contribute is determined. 84 The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites and takes an active role in identifying and providing for these costs. In the past, Old Merck performed a worldwide survey to assess all sites for potential contamination resulting from past industrial activities. Where assessment indicated that physical investigation was warranted, such investigation was performed, providing a better evaluation of the need for remedial action. Where such need was identified, remedial action was then initiated. As definitive information became available during the course of investigations and or remedial efforts at each site, estimates were refined and accruals were established or adjusted accordingly. These estimates and related accruals continue to be refined annually. A similar process is being followed for legacy Schering Plough sites. The Company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $16 million in 2010, and are estimated at $81 million for the years 2011 through 2015. In managements opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $185 million and $162 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not consider potential recoveries from other parties and will be paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next 15 years. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $150 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. Share Based Compensation The Company expenses all share based payment awards to employees, including grants of stock options, over the requisite service period based on the grant date fair value of the awards. The Company determines the fair value of certain share based awards using the Black Scholes option pricing model which uses both historical and current market data to estimate the fair value. This method incorporates various assumptions such as the risk free interest rate, expected volatility, expected dividend yield and expected life of the options. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans Net pension and other postretirement benefit cost totaled $696 million in 2010, $511 million in 2009 and $377 million in 2008. The higher costs in 2010 and 2009 as compared with 2008 are primarily due to incremental costs associated with the Merger. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan information for financial reporting purposes is calculated using actuarial assumptions including a discount rate for plan benefit obligations and an expected rate of return on plan assets. The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. For both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans, the discount rate is evaluated on measurement dates and modified to reflect the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high quality fixed income debt instruments that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligation as they come due. At December 31, 2010, the discount rates for the Companys U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans ranged from 4.00% to 5.60% compared with a range of 4.60% to 6.00% at December 31, 2009. The expected rate of return for both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans represents the average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits included in the benefit obligation are to be paid. In developing the expected rate of return, the Company considers long term compound annualized returns of historical market data as well as actual returns on the Companys plan assets. Using this reference information, the Company develops forward looking return expectations for each asset category and a weighted average expected long term rate of return for a target portfolio allocated across these investment categories. The expected portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active management as appropriate. As a result of this analysis, for 2011, the Companys expected rate of return will range from 5.25% to 8.75% compared to a range of 8.00% to 8.75% in 2010 for its U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The Company has established investment guidelines for its U.S. pension and other postretirement plans to create an asset allocation that is expected to deliver a rate of return sufficient to meet the long term obligation of 85 each plan, given an acceptable level of risk. The target investment portfolio of the Companys U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans is allocated 45% to 60% in U.S. equities, 20% to 30% in international equities, 15% to 25% in fixed income investments, and up to 8% in cash and other investments. The portfolios equity weighting is consistent with the long term nature of the plans benefit obligations. The expected annual standard deviation of returns of the target portfolio, which approximates 13%, reflects both the equity allocation and the diversification benefits among the asset classes in which the portfolio invests. For non U.S. pension plans, the targeted investment portfolio varies based on the duration of pension liabilities and local government rules and regulations. Although a significant percentage of plan assets are invested in U.S. equities, concentration risk is mitigated through the use of strategies that are diversified within management guidelines. Actuarial assumptions are based upon managements best estimates and judgment. A reasonably possible change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $79 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on its net pension and postretirement benefit cost. A reasonably possible change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the expected rate of return assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $33 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on its net pension and postretirement benefit cost. Required funding obligations for 2011 relating to the Companys pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material. The preceding hypothetical changes in the discount rate and expected rate of return assumptions would not impact the Companys funding requirements. Net loss amounts, which reflect experience differentials primarily relating to differences between expected and actual returns on plan assets as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recorded as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income. Expected returns for pension plans are based on a calculated market related value of assets. Under this methodology, asset gains/losses resulting from actual returns that differ from the Companys expected returns are recognized in the market related value of assets ratably over a five year period. Also, net loss amounts in Accumulated other comprehensive income in excess of certain thresholds are amortized into net pension and other postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining service life of employees. Amortization of net losses for the Companys U.S. plans at December 31, 2010 is expected to increase net pension and other postretirement benefit cost by approximately $3 million annually from 2011 through 2015. Restructuring Costs Restructuring costs have been recorded in connection with restructuring programs designed to reduce the cost structure, increase efficiency and enhance competitiveness. As a result, the Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its future plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs to be incurred when the restructuring actions take place. When accruing these costs, the Company will recognize the amount within a range of costs that is the best estimate within the range. When no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount, the Company recognizes the minimum amount within the range. In connection with these actions, management also assesses the recoverability of long lived assets employed in the business. In certain instances, asset lives have been shortened based on changes in the expected useful lives of the affected assets. Severance and other related costs are reflected within Restructuring costs. Asset related charges are reflected within Materials and production costs, Marketing and administrative expenses and Research and development expenses depending upon the nature of the asset. Impairments of Long Lived Assets The Company assesses changes in economic, regulatory and legal conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows in evaluating the value of the Companys property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company periodically evaluates whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of its long lived assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows of these assets, or appropriate asset groupings, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If the asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the assets fair value and its carrying value. If quoted market prices are not available, the Company will estimate fair value using a discounted value of estimated future cash flows approach. 86 The Company tests its goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist, using a fair value based test. Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets of businesses purchased and is assigned to reporting units. Other acquired intangibles (excluding IPRD) are recorded at fair value and amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. When events or circumstances warrant a review, the Company will assess recoverability from future operations using pretax undiscounted cash flows derived from the lowest appropriate asset groupings. Impairments are recognized in operating results to the extent that the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, which is determined based on the net present value of estimated cash flows. The Company tests its indefinite lived intangibles, including IPRD, for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist, through a one step test that compares the fair value of the indefinite lived intangible asset with the assets carrying value. For impairment testing purposes, the Company may combine separately recorded indefinite lived intangible assets into one unit of account based on the relevant facts and circumstances. Generally, the Company will combine indefinite lived intangible assets for testing purposes if they operate as a single asset and are essentially inseparable. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized within the Companys operating results. Impairments of Investments The Company reviews its investments for impairments based on the determination of whether the decline in market value of the investment below the carrying value is other than temporary. The Company considers available evidence in evaluating potential impairments of its investments, including the duration and extent to which fair value is less than cost, and for equity securities, the Companys ability and intent to hold the investments. For a debt security, an other than temporary impairment has occurred if the Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. If the Company does not intend to sell the impaired debt security, and it is not more likely than not it will be required to sell the debt security before the recovery of its amortized cost basis, the amount of the other than temporary impairment recognized in earnings is limited to the portion attributed to credit loss. The remaining portion of the other than temporary impairment related to other factors is recognized in OCI. Taxes on Income The Companys effective tax rate is based on pretax income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. An estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to the Companys quarterly operating results. In the event that there is a significant unusual or one time item recognized, or expected to be recognized, in the Companys quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item would be separately calculated and recorded at the same time as the unusual or one time item. The Company considers the resolution of prior year tax matters to be such items. Significant judgment is required in determining the Companys tax provision and in evaluating its tax positions. The recognition and measurement of a tax position is based on managements best judgment given the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. The Company evaluates tax positions to determine whether the benefits of tax positions are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit based on the technical merits of the tax position. For tax positions that are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company recognizes the largest amount of the benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement in the financial statements. For tax positions that are not more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company does not recognize any portion of the benefit in the financial statements. If the more likely than not threshold is not met in the period for which a tax position is taken, the Company may subsequently recognize the benefit of that tax position if the tax matter is effectively settled, the statute of limitations expires, or if the more likely than not threshold is met in a subsequent period. (See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.) Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. Timing differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the tax return in future years for which the Company has already recorded the tax benefit in the financial statements. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial statements for which payment has been deferred or expense for which the Company has already taken a deduction 87 on the tax return, but has not yet recognized as expense in the financial statements. At December 31, 2010, foreign earnings of $40.4 billion have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary companies for reinvestment, therefore no provision has been made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In October 2009, the FASB issued new guidance for revenue recognition with multiple deliverables, which is effective for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, although early adoption is permitted. This guidance eliminates the residual method under the current guidance and replaces it with the relative selling price method when allocating revenue in a multiple deliverable arrangement. The selling price for each deliverable shall be determined using vendor specific objective evidence of selling price, if it exists, otherwise third party evidence of selling price shall be used. If neither exists for a deliverable, the vendor shall use its best estimate of the selling price for that deliverable. After adoption, this guidance will also require expanded qualitative and quantitative disclosures. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adoption on its financial position and results of operations. In January 2010, the FASB amended the existing disclosure guidance on fair value measurements, which is effective January 1, 2010, except for disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, which is effective January 1, 2011. Among other things, the updated guidance requires additional disclosure for significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 measurements and requires certain Level 3 disclosures on a gross basis. Additionally, the updates amend existing guidance to require a greater level of disaggregated information and more robust disclosures about valuation techniques and inputs to fair value measurements. Since the amended guidance requires only additional disclosures, the adoption of the provisions effective January 1, 2011 will not affect the Companys financial position or results of operations. Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results This report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company may contain so called forward looking statements, all of which are based on managements current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. One can identify these forward looking statements by their use of words such as anticipates, expects, plans, will, estimates, forecasts, projects and other words of similar meaning. One can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to address the Companys growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential and development programs. One must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the Companys forward looking statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. No forward looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. The Company does not assume the obligation to update any forward looking statement. One should carefully evaluate such statements in light of factors, including risk factors, described in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, especially on Forms 10 K, 10 Q and 8 K. In Item 1A. Risk Factors of this annual report on Form 10 K the Company discusses in more detail various important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historic results. The Company notes these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. One should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under Financial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 88 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Description of Mercks Business The Company is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies, animal health, and consumer care products, which it markets directly and through its joint ventures. The Companys operations are principally managed on a products basis and are comprised of four operating segments, which are the Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Consumer Care and Alliances segments, and one reportable segment, which is the Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed either directly by the Company or through joint ventures. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, primarily administered at physician offices. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and government entities. The Company also has animal health operations that discover, develop, manufacture and market animal health products, including vaccines, which the Company sells to veterinarians, distributors and animal producers. Additionally, the Company has consumer care operations that develop, manufacture and market over the counter, foot care and sun care products, which are sold through wholesale and retail drug, food chain and mass merchandiser outlets in the United States and Canada. On November 3, 2009, Merck Co., Inc. (Old Merck) and Schering Plough Corporation (Schering Plough) merged (the Merger). In the Merger, Schering Plough acquired all of the shares of Old Merck, which became a wholly owned subsidiary of Schering Plough and was renamed Merck Sharp Dohme Corp. Schering Plough continued as the surviving public company and was renamed Merck Co., Inc. (New Merck or the Company). However, for accounting purposes only, the Merger was treated as an acquisition with Old Merck considered the accounting acquirer. Accordingly, the accompanying financial statements reflect Old Mercks stand alone operations as they existed prior to the completion of the Merger. The results of Schering Ploughs business have been included in New Mercks financial statements only for periods subsequent to the completion of the Merger. Therefore, New Mercks financial results for 2009 do not reflect a full year of legacy Schering Plough operations. References in this report and in the accompanying financial statements to Merck for periods prior to the Merger refer to Old Merck and for periods after the completion of the Merger to New Merck. Overview During 2010, the Company made progress driving revenue growth for key products, expanding its global reach including within emerging markets, improving its cost structure, making strategic investments in its business and advancing its late stage pipeline, while continuing the task of integrating the legacy companies post Merger. Sales increased to $46.0 billion in 2010 driven largely by incremental revenue resulting from the inclusion of a full year of results for legacy Schering Plough products such as Remicade, a treatment for inflammatory diseases, Nasonex, an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, Temodar, a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, PegIntron for treating chronic hepatitis C and Clarinex, a non sedating antihistamine, as well as by the inclusion of a full year of results for Zetia and Vytorin, cholesterol modifying medicines. Prior to the Merger, substantially all sales of Zetia and Vytorin were recognized by the Merck/Schering Plough Partnership (the MSP Partnership) and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is wholly owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these products are now reflected in Sales. Additionally, the Company recognized a full year of sales in 2010 from legacy Schering Plough animal health and consumer care products. Sales for 2009 only include revenue from legacy Schering Plough and MSP Partnership products for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Also contributing to the sales increase was growth in Januvia and Janumet for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, Isentress, an antiretroviral therapy for use in combination therapy for the treatment of HIV 1 infection in adult patients, and Singulair, a medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Cozaar 46 and Hyzaar for the treatment of hypertension, which lost patent protection in the United States in April 2010 and in a number of major European markets in March 2010. Revenue was also negatively affected by lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D for the treatment and, in the case of Fosamax, prevention of osteoporosis, which have lost market exclusivity in the United States and in several major European markets, and lower revenue from the Companys relationship with AstraZeneca LP (AZLP), as well as by lower sales of Gardasil, a vaccine to help prevent cervical, vulvar, vaginal and anal cancers, precancerous or dysplastic lesions, and genital warts caused by the human papillomavirus (HPV) types contained in the vaccine, and lower sales of Zocor, the Companys statin for modifying cholesterol. In addition, the implementation of certain provisions of U.S. health care reform legislation during 2010 resulted in increased Medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced revenues by approximately $170 million. Additionally, many countries in the European Union (EU) have undertaken austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in health care and have implemented pricing actions that negatively impacted sales in 2010. Sales of Remicade and a follow on product, Simponi, were $2.8 billion in the aggregate in 2010. The Company is involved in an arbitration with Centocor Ortho Biotech, Inc. (Centocor), a subsidiary of Johnson Johnson, in which Centocor is seeking to terminate the Companys rights to continue to market Remicade and Simponi. The arbitration hearing has concluded and the Company is awaiting the arbitration panels decision. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. An unfavorable outcome in the arbitration would have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Since the Merger, the Company has continued the advancement of drug candidates through its pipeline. During 2010, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Dulera Inhalation Aerosol, a new fixed dose combination asthma treatment for patients 12 years of age and older. In addition, the intravenous formulation of Brinavess, for which Merck has exclusive marketing rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico, was granted marketing approval in the EU for the rapid conversion of recent onset atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm in adults: for non surgery patients with atrial fibrillation of seven days or less and for post cardiac surgery patients with atrial fibrillation of three days or less. Also during 2010, the FDA approved a new indication for Gardasil for the prevention of anal cancer caused by HPV types 16 and 18 and for the prevention of anal intraepithelial neoplasia grades 1, 2 and 3 (anal dysplasias and precancerous lesions) caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18, in males and females 9 through 26 years of age. Additionally, in September 2010, two supplemental New Drug Applications (sNDA) for Saphris for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults and acute treatment of bipolar I disorder in adults were approved in the United States to expand the products indications. Also during 2010, the Company entered into a co promotion agreement for the commercialization of Daxas, a treatment for symptomatic chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, which the Company launched in certain European markets. The Company currently has three candidates under review with the FDA: boceprevir, an investigational oral hepatitis C protease inhibitor; MK 0431A XR, the Companys investigational extended release formulation of Janumet and MK 431D, an investigational combination of Januvia and Zocor for the treatment of diabetes and dyslipidemia. In addition, SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, an oral contraceptive that combines a selective progestin with 17 beta estradiol, is currently under review in the EU. Additionally, MK 3009, Cubicin daptomycin for injection, is currently under review in Japan where the Company has marketing rights. Also, the Company currently has 19 candidates in Phase III development and anticipates making a New Drug Application (NDA) with respect to certain of these candidates in 2011 including MK 8669, ridaforolimus, a novel mTOR inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of metastatic soft tissue and bone sarcomas; MK 2452, Saflutan (tafluprost), for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension; MK 653C, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin, which is an investigational medication for the treatment of dyslipidemia; and MK 0974, telcagepant, the Companys investigational medication for acute treatment of migraine. Another Phase III candidate is vorapaxar with respect to which the Company was recently informed by the chairman of one of the studies to discontinue study drug and that investigators were to begin to close out the study in a timely and orderly fashion. The Company recorded a material impairment charge on the related intangible asset. See Research and Development below. The Company continues to make progress in achieving cost savings across all areas, including from consolidation in both sales and marketing and research and development, the application of the Companys lean 47 manufacturing and sourcing strategies to the expanded operations, and the full integration of the MSP Partnership. These savings result from various actions, including the Merger Restructuring Program discussed below, previously announced ongoing cost reduction activities at both legacy companies, as well as from non restructuring related activities such as the Companys procurement savings initiative. During 2010, the Company realized more than $2.0 billion in net cost savings from all of these activities. In February 2010, the Company commenced actions under a global restructuring program (the Merger Restructuring Program) in conjunction with the integration of the legacy Merck and legacy Schering Plough businesses. This Merger Restructuring Program is intended to optimize the cost structure of the combined company. Additional actions under the program continued during 2010. As part of the restructuring actions taken thus far under the Merger Restructuring Program, the Company expects to reduce its total workforce measured at the time of the Merger by approximately 17% across the Company worldwide. In addition, the Company has eliminated over 2,500 positions which were vacant at the time of the Merger. These workforce reductions will primarily come from the elimination of duplicative positions in sales, administrative and headquarters organizations, as well as from the sale or closure of certain manufacturing and research and development sites and the consolidation of office facilities. The Company will continue to pursue productivity efficiencies and evaluate its manufacturing supply chain capabilities on an ongoing basis which may result in future restructuring actions. During this period, the Company also will continue to hire new employees in strategic growth areas of the business as necessary. In connection with the Merger Restructuring Program, separation costs under the Companys existing severance programs worldwide were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009 to the extent such costs were probable and reasonably estimable. The Company commenced accruing costs related to enhanced termination benefits offered to employees under the Merger Restructuring Program in the first quarter of 2010 when the necessary criteria were met. The Company recorded total pretax restructuring costs of $1.8 billion in 2010 and $1.5 billion in 2009 related to this program. The restructuring actions taken thus far under the Merger Restructuring Program are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2012, with the exception of certain manufacturing facilities actions, with the total cumulative pretax costs estimated to be approximately $3.8 billion to $4.6 billion. The Company estimates that approximately two thirds of the cumulative pretax costs relate to cash outlays, primarily related to employee separation expense. Approximately one third of the cumulative pretax costs are non cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested. The Company expects the restructuring actions taken thus far under the Merger Restructuring Program to result in annual savings in 2012 of approximately $2.7 billion to $3.1 billion. In March 2010, the United States enacted health care reform legislation. Important market reforms began during 2010 and will continue through full implementation in 2014. During 2010, Merck incurred costs as a result of the legislation, including increased Medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced revenues. The Company also recorded a charge in 2010 associated with this legislation that changed tax law to require taxation of the prescription drug subsidy of the Companys retiree health benefit plans for which companies receive reimbursement under Medicare Part D. Additional provisions of the legislation will come into effect in 2011, including the assessment of an annual health care reform fee on all branded prescription drug manufacturers and importers and the requirement that drug manufacturers pay a 50% discount on Medicare Part D utilization incurred by beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so called donut hole). These new provisions will decrease revenues and increase costs. Earnings per common share (EPS) assuming dilution for 2010 were $0.28, which reflect a net unfavorable impact resulting from the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, in process research and development (IPRD) impairment charges, including a charge related to the vorapaxar clinical development program, restructuring and merger related costs, as well as a legal reserve relating to Vioxx (the Vioxx Liability Reserve) discussed below, partially offset by the gain recognized on AstraZenecas exercise of its option to acquire certain assets from the Company. Non GAAP EPS in 2010 were $3.42 excluding these items (see Non GAAP Income and Non GAAP EPS below). In December 2010, Merck announced that its Board of Directors had elected Kenneth C. Frazier, then Mercks president, as chief executive officer and president, as well as a member of the board, effective January 1, 2011. Mr. Frazier succeeds Richard T. Clark, who will continue to serve as chairman of the board. 48 Competition and the Health Care Environment Competition The markets in which the Company conducts its business and the pharmaceutical industry are highly competitive and highly regulated. The Companys competitors include other worldwide research based pharmaceutical companies, smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus, and generic drug and consumer health care manufacturers. The Companys operations may be affected by technological advances of competitors, industry consolidation, patents granted to competitors, competitive combination products, new products of competitors, the generic availability of competitors branded products, new information from clinical trials of marketed products or post marketing surveillance and generic competition as the Companys products mature. In addition, patent positions are increasingly being challenged by competitors, and the outcome can be highly uncertain. An adverse result in a patent dispute can preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect sales of existing products and could result in the recognition of an impairment charge with respect to certain products. Competitive pressures have intensified as pressures in the industry have grown. The effect on operations of competitive factors and patent disputes cannot be predicted. Pharmaceutical competition involves a rigorous search for technological innovations and the ability to market these innovations effectively. With its long standing emphasis on research and development, the Company is well positioned to compete in the search for technological innovations. Additional resources to meet market challenges include quality control, flexibility to meet customer specifications, an efficient distribution system and a strong technical information service. The Company is active in acquiring and marketing products through external alliances, such as joint ventures and licenses, and has been refining its sales and marketing efforts to further address changing industry conditions. However, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may result in price reductions and product displacements, even for products protected by patents. For example, the number of compounds available to treat a particular disease typically increases over time and can result in slowed sales growth for the Companys products in that therapeutic category. Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access. In 2010, this pressure was particularly intense in several European countries which implemented austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in areas such as health care. In the United States, federal and state governments for many years also have pursued methods to reduce the cost of drugs and vaccines for which they pay. For example, federal laws require the Company to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid and to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and disproportionate share hospitals (hospitals meeting certain criteria). Under the Federal Vaccines for Children entitlement program, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) funds and purchases recommended pediatric vaccines at a public sector price for the immunization of Medicaid eligible, uninsured, Native American and certain underinsured children. Merck was awarded a CDC contract in 2010 for the supply of pediatric vaccines for the Vaccines for Children program. Against this backdrop, the United States enacted major health care reform legislation in 2010. Various insurance market reforms began last year and will continue through full implementation in 2014. The new law is expected to expand access to health care to more than 32 million Americans by the end of the decade that did not previously have regular access to health care. With respect to the effect of the law on the pharmaceutical industry, the law increased the mandated Medicaid rebate from 15.1% to 23.1%, expanded the rebate to Medicaid managed care utilization, and increased the types of entities eligible for the federal 340B drug discount program. The law also requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay a 50% discount on Medicare Part D utilization by beneficiaries when they are in the Medicare Part D coverage gap (i.e., the so called donut hole). Also, beginning in 2011, pharmaceutical manufacturers will be required to pay an annual health care reform fee. The total annual industry fee, which will be $2.5 billion in 2011, will be assessed on each company in proportion to its share of sales to certain government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Although not included in the health care reform law, Congress has also considered, and may consider again, proposals to increase the governments role in pharmaceutical pricing in the Medicare program. These proposals may include removing the current legal prohibition against the Secretary of the Health and Human Services intervening in price negotiations between Medicare drug benefit program plans and pharmaceutical 49 companies. They may also include mandating the payment of rebates for some or all of the pharmaceutical utilization in Medicare drug benefit plans. In addition, Congress may again consider proposals to allow, under certain conditions, the importation of medicines from other countries. The full impact of U.S. health care reform, as well as continuing budget pressures on governments around the world, cannot be predicted at this time. In addressing cost containment pressures, the Company makes a continuing effort to demonstrate that its medicines provide value to patients and to those who pay for health care. The Company works in markets with historically low rates of government spending on health care to encourage those governments to increase their investments and thereby improve their citizens access to appropriate health care, including medicines. In the animal health business, there is intense competition which is affected by several factors including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, product innovation, the quality and price of the Companys products, effective promotional efforts and the frequent introduction of generic products by competitors. The Companys consumer care operations face competition from other consumer health care businesses as well as retailers who carry their own private label brands. The Companys competitive position is affected by several factors, including regulatory and legislative issues, scientific and technological advances, the quality and price of the Companys products, promotional efforts and the growth of lower cost private label brands. Operating conditions have become more challenging under the global pressures of competition, industry regulation and cost containment efforts. Although no one can predict the effect of these and other factors on the Companys business, the Company continually takes measures to evaluate, adapt and improve the organization and its business practices to better meet customer needs and believes that it is well positioned to respond to the evolving health care environment and market forces. Government Regulation The pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies around the world. Governmental regulation and legislation tends to focus on standards and processes for determining drug safety and effectiveness, as well as conditions for sale or reimbursement, especially related to the pricing of products. Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States, which administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals. In many cases, the FDA requirements and practices have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the United States. U.S. health care reform legislation which passed in 2010 with a full implementation date of 2014, significantly expands access to health care, but also contains a number of provisions imposing new obligations on the pharmaceutical industry, including, for example, an increase in the mandated rebate under the Medicaid program and a new discount requirement in the Medicare Part D program. The EU has adopted Directives and other legislation concerning the classification, labeling, advertising, wholesale distribution and approval for marketing of medicinal products for human use. These provide mandatory standards throughout the EU, which may be supplemented or implemented with additional regulations by the EU member states. The Companys policies and procedures are already consistent with the substance of these directives; consequently, it is believed that they will not have any material effect on the Companys business. In January 2008, the European Commission (EC) launched a sector inquiry in the pharmaceutical industry under the rules of EU competition law. A sector inquiry allows the EC to gather information about the general operation of market competition and is not an investigation into suspected anti competitive behavior of specific firms. As part of this inquiry, Old Mercks offices in Germany were inspected by the authorities beginning in January 2008. The preliminary report of the EC was issued in November 2008, and following the public consultation period, the final report was issued in July 2009. The final report confirmed that there has been a decline in the number of novel medicines reaching the market and instances of delayed market entry of generic medicines and discussed industry practices that may have contributed to these phenomena. Among other things, the final 50 report expressed concern over settlements of patent disputes between originator and generic companies and suggested that the EC should monitor any anti competitive effects. While the EC has issued further inquiries with respect to the subject of the investigation, including to the Company, the EC has not alleged that the Company or any of its subsidiaries have engaged in any unlawful practices. The Company believes that it will continue to be able to conduct its operations, including launching new drugs into the market, in this regulatory environment. Access to Medicines As a global health care company, Mercks primary role is to discover and develop innovative medicines and vaccines. The Company also recognizes that it has an important role to play in helping to improve access to its products around the world. The Companys efforts in this regard are wide ranging. For example, the Company has been recognized for pricing many of its products through a differential pricing framework, taking into consideration such factors as a countrys level of economic development and public health need. Building on the Companys own efforts, Merck has undertaken collaborations with many stakeholders to improve access to medicines and enhance the quality of life for people around the world. For example, in 2010, through a partnership of Merck, the Government of Bhutan, and the Australian Cervical Cancer Foundation, Bhutan became the first low income country in the world to successfully implement a national HPV vaccination program. Under this program, Merck is providing Gardasil free of charge for the first year of the program and will provide Gardasil at the Companys access price for five more years. Also in 2010, Merck worked with its partner, the Wellcome Trust, to further develop the Hillemann Laboratories which was established in September 2009. This initiative will focus on developing affordable vaccines to prevent diseases that commonly affect low income countries. Merck has also in the past provided funds to The Merck Company Foundation, an independent organization, which has partnered with a variety of organizations dedicated to improving global health. One of these partnerships is The African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnership in Botswana, a collaboration with the government of Botswana and the Bill Melinda Gates Foundation, that was renewed in 2010, and supports Botswanas response to HIV/AIDS through a comprehensive and sustainable approach to HIV prevention, care, treatment, and support. Privacy and Data Protection The Company is subject to a number of privacy and data protection laws and regulations globally. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing attention to privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the Companys business, including recently enacted laws and regulations in the United States and internationally requiring notification to individuals and government authorities of security breaches involving certain categories of personal information. Operating Results Sales Worldwide sales totaled $46.0 billion for 2010 compared with $27.4 billion in 2009. Foreign exchange favorably affected global sales performance by 1%. The revenue increase over 2009 was driven largely by incremental sales resulting from the inclusion of a full year of results for legacy Schering Plough products such as Remicade, Nasonex, Temodar, PegIntron and Clarinex, as well as by the inclusion of a full year of results for Zetia and Vytorin. Prior to the Merger, substantially all sales of Zetia and Vytorin were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is wholly owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these products are now reflected in Sales. Additionally, the Company recognized a full year of sales in 2010 from legacy Schering Plough animal health and consumer care products. Sales for 2009 only include revenue from legacy Schering Plough and MSP Partnership products for the post Merger period through December 31, 2009. Also contributing to the sales increase was growth in Januvia and Janumet, Isentress, and Singulair. These increases 51 were partially offset by lower sales of Cozaar and Hyzaar which lost patent protection in the United States in April 2010 and in a number of major European markets in March 2010. Revenue was also negatively affected by lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D, which have lost market exclusivity in the United States and in several major European markets, and lower revenue from the Companys relationship with AZLP, as well as by lower sales of Gardasil and Zocor. In addition, the implementation of certain provisions of U.S. health care reform legislation during 2010 resulted in increased Medicaid rebates and other impacts that reduced revenues by approximately $170 million. Domestic sales were $20.2 billion in 2010 compared with $14.4 billion in 2009. Foreign sales were $25.8 billion in 2010 compared with $13.0 billion in 2009. The increases were driven primarily by incremental sales resulting from the inclusion of a full year of legacy Schering Plough and MSP Partnership products in 2010. The domestic sales increase was also driven by higher sales of Januvia, Janumet, Singulair and Isentress. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Cozaar, Hyzaar, Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D, Gardasil and RotaTeq, as well as by lower revenue from the Companys relationship with AZLP. Foreign sales growth reflects the strong performance of Januvia, Janumet, Isentress and Singulair, partially offset by lower sales of Cozaar, Hyzaar, Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D. Foreign sales represented 56% of total sales in 2010. While many of the Companys brands experienced positive growth trends in the EU during 2010, the environment in the EU and across Europe is now more challenging. Many countries have announced austerity measures aimed at reducing costs in areas such as health care. The implementation of pricing actions varies by country and many have announced measures to reduce prices of generic and patented drugs. While the Company is taking steps to mitigate the immediate impact in the EU, the austerity measures negatively affected the Companys revenue performance in 2010 and the Company anticipates they will continue to negatively affect revenue performance in 2011. Worldwide sales totaled $27.4 billion for 2009, an increase of 15% compared with 2008. Foreign exchange unfavorably affected global sales performance by 2%. The revenue increase over 2008 largely reflects incremental sales resulting from the inclusion of legacy Schering Plough and MSP Partnership products for the post Merger period in 2009. Also contributing to the sales increase was growth in Januvia and Janumet, Isentress, Singulair, Varivax and Pneumovax. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D, Gardasil, Cosopt and Trusopt (which lost U.S. market exclusivity in October 2008), and lower revenue from the Companys relationship with AZLP. Other products that experienced declines include RotaTeq, Zocor and Primaxin. 52 Sales(1) of the Companys products were as follows: Years Ended December 31 2010 2009 2008 Pharmaceutical: Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology Singulair $ 4,987 $ 4,660 $ 4,337 Remicade 2,714 431 Nasonex 1,220 165 Fosamax 926 1,100 1,553 Clarinex 659 101 Arcoxia 398 358 377 Proventil 210 26 Asmanex 208 37 Cardiovascular Zetia 2,297 403 6 Vytorin 2,014 441 84 Integrilin 266 46 Diabetes and Obesity Januvia 2,385 1,922 1,397 Janumet 954 658 351 Diversified Brands Cozaar/Hyzaar 2,104 3,561 3,558 Zocor 468 558 660 Propecia 447 440 429 Claritin Rx 420 71 Vasotec/Vaseretic 255 311 357 Remeron 223 38 Proscar 216 291 324 Infectious Disease Isentress 1,090 752 361 PegIntron 737 149 Cancidas 611 617 596 Primaxin 610 689 760 Invanz 362 293 265 Avelox 316 66 Rebetol 221 36 Crixivan/Stocrin 206 206 275 Neurosciences and Ophthalmology Maxalt 550 575 529 Cosopt/Trusopt 484 503 781 Subutex/Suboxone 111 36 Oncology Temodar 1,065 188 Emend 378 317 264 Caelyx 284 47 Intron A 209 38 Vaccines(2) ProQuad/M M R II/Varivax 1,378 1,369 1,268 Gardasil 988 1,118 1,403 RotaTeq 519 522 665 Pneumovax 376 346 249 Zostavax 243 277 312 Womens Health and Endocrine NuvaRing 559 88 Follistim AQ 528 96 Implanon 236 37 Cerazette 209 35 Other pharmaceutical(3) 4,170 1,218 920 Total Pharmaceutical segment sales 39,811 25,236 22,081 Other segment sales(4) 5,578 2,114 1,694 Total segment sales 45,389 27,350 23,775 Other(5) 598 78 75 $ 45,987 $ 27,428 $ 23,850 (1) Sales of legacy Schering Plough products reflect results for 2010 and the post Merger period in 2009. In addition, prior to the Merger, substantially all sales of Zetia and Vytorin were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is wholly owned by the Company; accordingly, all sales of MSP Partnership products after the Merger are reflected in the table above. Sales of Zetia and Vytorin in 2008 reflect Old Mercks sales of these products in Latin America which was not part of the MSP Partnership. (2) These amounts do not reflect sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through the Companys joint venture, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, the results of which are reflected in Equity income from affiliates. These amounts do, however, reflect supply sales to Sanofi Pasteur MSD. (3) Other pharmaceutical primarily reflects sales of other human pharmaceutical products, including products within the franchises not listed separately. (4) Reflects other non reportable segments including Animal Health and Consumer Care, and revenue from the Companys relationship with AZLP primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. Revenue from AZLP was $1.3 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.6 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (5) Other revenues are primarily comprised of miscellaneous corporate revenues, third party manufacturing sales, sales related to divested products or businesses and other supply sales not included in segment results. 53 Pharmaceutical Segment Sales Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology Worldwide sales of Singulair, a once a day oral medicine indicated for the chronic treatment of asthma and for the relief of symptoms of allergic rhinitis, grew 7% reaching $5.0 billion in 2010 reflecting price increases and positive performance in Japan. Global sales of Singulair rose 7% to $4.7 billion in 2009 primarily driven by favorable pricing and strong performance in Japan and Asia Pacific. Singulair continues to be the number one prescribed product in the U.S. respiratory market. U.S. sales of Singulair were $3.2 billion in 2010. The patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for Singulair expires in August 2012. The Company expects that within the two years following patent expiration, it will lose substantially all U.S. sales of Singulair, with most of those declines coming in the first full year following patent expiration. In addition, the patent for Singulair will expire in a number of major European markets in August 2012 and the Company expects sales of Singulair in those markets will decline significantly thereafter (although the six month Pediatric Market Exclusivity may extend this date in some markets to February 2013). Sales of Remicade, a treatment for inflammatory diseases, were $2.7 billion in 2010 and $431 million for the post Merger period in 2009. Remicade is marketed by the Company outside of the United States (except in Japan and certain other Asian markets). Products that compete with Remicade have been launched over the past several years. In October 2009, the EC approved Simponi, a once monthly subcutaneous treatment for certain inflammatory diseases. In January 2011, Simponi was approved in the EU for use in combination with methotrexate in adults with severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis not previously treated with methotrexate and for the reduction in the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X ray in rheumatoid arthritis patients. The Company has launched Simponi in 18 countries and launches in other international markets are planned. Sales of Simponi were $97 million in 2010. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of arbitration proceedings involving the Companys rights to market Remicade and Simponi. Global sales of Nasonex, an inhaled nasal corticosteroid for the treatment of nasal allergy symptoms, were $1.2 billion in 2010 and were $165 million for the post Merger period in 2009. Worldwide sales of Fosamax and Fosamax Plus D (marketed as Fosavance throughout the EU and as Fosamac in Japan) for the treatment and, in the case of Fosamax, prevention of osteoporosis, decreased 16% in 2010 to $926 million and declined 29% in 2009 to $1.1 billion. These medicines have lost market exclusivity in the United States and have also lost market exclusivity in several major European markets. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing significant sales declines within the Fosamax product franchise and the Company expects the declines to continue. Global sales of Clarinex (marketed as Aerius in many countries outside the United States), a non sedating antihistamine, were $659 million in 2010 and were $101 million for the post Merger period in 2009. Other products included in the Bone, Respiratory, Immunology and Dermatology franchise include among others, Arcoxia, for the treatment of arthritis and pain; Proventil inhalation aerosol for the relief of bronchospasm; and Asmanex, an inhaled corticosteroid for asthma. In June 2010, the FDA approved Dulera Inhalation Aerosol, a new fixed dose combination asthma treatment for patients 12 years of age and older. Dulera combines an inhaled corticosteroid with a long acting beta2 agonist. Cardiovascular Sales of Zetia, a cholesterol absorption inhibitor also marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States, and Vytorin, a combination product containing the active ingredients of both Zetia and Zocor marketed outside the United States as Inegy, were $2.3 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, in 2010 and were $403 million and $441 million, respectively, for the post Merger period in 2009. Prior to the Merger, substantially all sales of these products were recognized by the MSP Partnership and the results of Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership were recorded in Equity income from affiliates. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is wholly owned by the Company and therefore revenues from these products are now reflected in Sales. Total sales of Zetia and Vytorin 54 in 2009, including the sales recognized through the MSP Partnership, were $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively. In November 2010, the Oxford University Clinical Trial Service Unit presented the results of the SHARP (Study of Heart and Renal Protection) study at the American Society of Nephrology meeting in which Vytorin 10/20 mg reduced the incidence of first major vascular events defined as non fatal heart attacks or cardiac death, stroke or any revascularization procedure by a highly statistically significant 16.1% compared to placebo. This was the pre specified primary endpoint of the study. The SHARP study involved more than 9,000 patients who, on average, had advanced or end stage chronic kidney disease. Merck plans to seek regulatory approvals for the use of Vytorin in patients with chronic kidney disease based on the results from the SHARP study in 2011. IMPROVE IT, a large cardiovascular outcomes study evaluating Zetia/Vytorin in patients with acute coronary syndrome, is fully enrolled with approximately 18,000 patients. During 2010, a blinded interim efficacy analysis was conducted by the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) for the trial when approximately 50% of the primary events had been accrued. The DSMB recommended continuing the trial with no changes in the study protocol. Another blinded interim efficacy analysis is planned by the DSMB when approximately 75% of the primary events have been accrued. The IMPROVE IT trial is scheduled for completion in 2013. Global sales of Integrilin Injection, a treatment for patients with acute coronary syndrome, which is sold by the Company in the United States and Canada, were $266 million in 2010 and were $46 million for the post Merger period in 2009. In September 2010, the intravenous formulation of Brinavess (vernakalant) was granted marketing approval in the EU, Iceland and Norway for the rapid conversion of recent onset atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm in adults: for non surgery patients with atrial fibrillation of seven days or less and for post cardiac surgery patients with atrial fibrillation of three days or less. Brinavess acts preferentially in the atria and is the first product in a new class of pharmacologic agents for cardioversion of atrial fibrillation to launch in the EU. In April 2009, Cardiome Pharma Corp. and Merck announced a collaboration and license agreement for the development and commercialization of vernakalant. The agreement provides Merck exclusive rights outside of the United States, Canada and Mexico to vernakalant intravenous formulation. Diabetes and Obesity Global sales of Januvia, Mercks dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP 4) inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, were $2.4 billion in 2010, $1.9 billion in 2009 and $1.4 billion in 2008, reflecting continued growth both in the United States and internationally due in part to the launch of new indications. In addition, growth in 2010 reflects apparent safety concerns that limited sales of a competing product. DPP 4 inhibitors represent a class of prescription medications that improve blood sugar control in patients with type 2 diabetes by enhancing a natural body system called the incretin system, which helps to regulate glucose by affecting the beta cells and alpha cells in the pancreas. Worldwide sales of Janumet, Mercks oral antihyperglycemic agent that combines sitagliptin (Januvia) with metformin in a single tablet to target all three key defects of type 2 diabetes, were $954 million in 2010, $658 million in 2009 and $351 million in 2008 reflecting growth both in the United States and internationally due to ongoing launches in certain markets. MK 0431A XR, the Companys investigational extended release formulation of Janumet, was accepted for standard review by the FDA in 2010. The Company is also moving forward as planned with regulatory filings in countries outside the United States. The extended release formulation of Janumet is an investigational treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines sitagliptin with metformin extended release, a commonly prescribed medication for type 2 diabetes, into a single tablet. This formulation is designed to provide a new treatment option for health care providers and patients who need two or more oral agents to help control their blood sugar with the convenience of once daily dosing. Diversified Brands Mercks diversified brands are human health pharmaceutical products that are approaching the expiration of their marketing exclusivity or are no longer protected by patents in developed markets, but continue to be a core part of the Companys offering in other markets around the world. 55 Global sales of Cozaar and its companion agent Hyzaar (a combination of Cozaar and hydrochlorothiazide) for the treatment of hypertension fell 41% in 2010 to $2.1 billion. The patents that provided U.S. market exclusivity for Cozaar and Hyzaar expired in April 2010. In addition, Cozaar and Hyzaar lost patent protection in a number of major European markets in March 2010. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing a significant decline in Cozaar/Hyzaar worldwide sales and the Company expects such decline to continue. Global sales of Cozaar and Hyzaar were $3.6 billion in 2009 which were comparable to sales in 2008 reflecting the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange, offset by strong performance of both products in the United States and of Hyzaar in Japan (marketed as Preminent). Other products contained in the Diversified Brands franchise include among others, Zocor, a statin for modifying cholesterol; Propecia, a product for the treatment of male pattern hair loss; prescription Claritin for the treatment of seasonal outdoor allergies and year round indoor allergies; Vasotec/Vaseretic for hypertension and or heart failure; Remeron, an antidepressant; and Proscar, a urology product for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostate enlargement. Remeron lost market exclusivity in the United States in January 2010 and in certain markets in the EU in September 2010. Infectious Disease Worldwide sales of Isentress, an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV 1 infection in treatment nave and treatment experienced adults, were $1.1 billion in 2010, $752 million in 2009 and $361 million in 2008. Sales growth in both periods reflects positive performance in the United States, as well as internationally, resulting from continued uptake since launch. Isentress works by inhibiting the insertion of HIV DNA into human DNA by the integrase enzyme. Inhibiting integrase from performing this essential function helps to limit the ability of the virus to replicate and infect new cells. In November 2010, the Company reported initial results from the Phase III study investigating the efficacy and safety of a treatment regimen including Isentress tablets once daily in treatment nave adult patients infected with HIV 1. In the study, although the treatment regimen that included Isentress once daily enabled more than 80% of patients to achieve viral suppression, Isentress once daily did not demonstrate non inferiority to the treatment regimen that included Isentress twice daily. Based on the initial results and following the recommendation of an independent Data Monitoring Committee, Merck terminated the study. Worldwide sales of PegIntron for treating chronic hepatitis C were $737 million in 2010 and were $149 million for the post Merger period in 2009. In September 2010, the Company initiated a voluntary recall of PegIntron single dose RediPen injection in the United States after consultation with the FDA, as well as other recalls globally, resulting in a reduction to revenue in 2010 of approximately $20 million representing estimated sales returns. In addition, the Company recognized a charge of approximately $40 million in Materials and production primarily for inventory discard costs. The recall was conducted as a precautionary measure due to a third party manufacturing issue that could have affected a small number of RediPens. The recall was specific to PegIntron RediPen and did not affect PegIntron vial products. Sales of Primaxin, an anti bacterial product, decreased 11% in 2010 to $610 million and declined 9% in 2009 to $689 million. These results reflect competitive pressures and in 2009 also reflect supply constraints. Patents on Primaxin have expired worldwide and multiple generics have been approved in Europe. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing a decline in sales of this product and the Company expects the decline to continue. Other products contained in the Infectious Diseases franchise include among others, Cancidas, an anti fungal product; Invanz for the treatment of certain infections; Avelox, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic for the treatment of certain respiratory and skin infections; Rebetol for use in combination with PegIntron for treating chronic hepatitis C; and Crixivan and Stocrin, antiretroviral therapies for the treatment of HIV infection. The compound patent that provides U.S. market exclusivity for Crixivan expires in 2012. Neurosciences and Ophthalmology Global sales of Maxalt, Mercks tablet for the acute treatment of migraine, declined 4% in 2010 to $550 million reflecting the generic availability of a competing product. Sales of Maxalt grew 9% in 2009 to $575 million. The compound patent that provides market exclusivity for Maxalt in the United States expires in 56 June 2012 (although the six month Pediatric Market Exclusivity may extend this date to December 2012). In addition, the patent for Maxalt will expire in a number of major European markets in 2013. The Company anticipates that sales in the United States and in these European markets will decline significantly after these patent expiries. Worldwide sales of ophthalmic products Cosopt and Trusopt declined 4% in 2010 to $484 million and fell 36% to $503 million in 2009. The patent that provided U.S. market exclusivity for Cosopt and Trusopt expired in October 2008. Trusopt has also lost market exclusivity in a number of major European markets. The patent for Cosopt will expire in a number of major European markets in March 2013 and the Company expects sales in those markets to decline significantly thereafter. In August 2009, the FDA approved Saphris (asenapine) for the acute treatment of schizophrenia in adults and for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder with or without psychotic features in adults. In September 2010, two sNDAs for Saphris were approved in the United States to expand the products indications to the treatment of schizophrenia in adults, as monotherapy for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults, and as adjunctive therapy with either lithium or valproate for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults. In September 2010, asenapine, to be sold under the brand name Sycrest, received marketing approval in the EU for the treatment of moderate to severe manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in adults; the marketing approval did not include an indication for schizophrenia. The marketing approval applies to all EU member states. In October 2010, Merck and H. Lundbeck A/S (Lundbeck) announced a worldwide commercialization agreement for Sycrest sublingual tablets (5 mg, 10 mg). Under the terms of the agreement, Lundbeck paid a fee and will make product supply payments in exchange for exclusive commercial rights to Sycrest in all markets outside the United States, China and Japan. Merck will retain exclusive commercial rights to asenapine in the United States, China and Japan. Concurrently, Merck is continuing to pursue regulatory approval for asenapine in other parts of the world. Merck continues to focus on building the brand awareness of Saphris in the United States. Merck launched a black cherry flavor of the sublingual tablet to provide an additional taste option. Merck continues to monitor and assess Saphris/Sycrest and the related intangible asset. If increasing the brand awareness, the additional flavor option, or Lundbecks launch of the product in the EU is not successful, the Company may take a non cash impairment charge with respect to Saphris/Sycrest, and such charge could be material. Bridion, for the reversal of certain muscle relaxants during surgery, is currently approved in more than 60 countries and has launched in more than 40 countries outside of the United States. Bridion is in Phase III development in the United States. Sales of Bridion were $103 million in 2010. The Neurosciences and Ophthalmology franchise also includes the products Subutex/Suboxone for the treatment of opiate addiction. In March 2010, Merck sold the rights to Subutex/Suboxone in nearly all markets back to Reckitt Benckiser Group PLC (Reckitt). The rights to the products in most major markets reverted to Reckitt on July 1, 2010; the remainder will revert to Reckitt during 2011. Sales for Subutex/Suboxone were $111 million in 2010. Oncology Sales of Temodar (marketed as Temodal outside the United States), a treatment for certain types of brain tumors, were $1.1 billion during 2010 and were $188 million for the post Merger period in 2009. In November 2010, Merck announced that a federal appellate court ruled in its favor in a Temodar patent infringement suit against Barr Laboratories (Barr), an affiliate of Teva Pharmaceuticals (Teva). The appellate court rejected Barrs arguments and reversed a lower court ruling that the U.S. patent was unenforceable. Teva had been seeking FDA approval to sell a generic version of Temodar. In connection with Tevas prior agreement not to launch during the appeal, Merck agreed that it will not object to Tevas launch of a generic version of Temodar in August 2013. The U.S. patent and exclusivity periods otherwise will expire on February 2014. Temodar lost patent exclusivity in the EU in 2009 and generic products are being marketed. Global sales of Emend, a treatment for chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting, grew 19% in 2010 to $378 million driven by increases in the United States and due to the launch in Japan. Emend sales increased 20% to $317 million in 2009. 57 Other products in the Oncology franchise include among others, Caelyx for the treatment of ovarian cancer, metastatic breast cancer and Kaposis sarcoma; and Intron A for treating melanoma. Marketing rights for Caelyx reverted to Johnson Johnson on December 31, 2010. Sales of Caelyx were $284 million in 2010. Vaccines The following discussion of vaccines does not include sales of vaccines sold in most major European markets through Sanofi Pasteur MSD (SPMSD), the Companys joint venture with Sanofi Pasteur, the results of which are reflected in Equity income from affiliates (see Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information below). Supply sales to SPMSD, however, are included. Worldwide sales of Gardasil recorded by Merck declined 12% to $988 million in 2010 and decreased 20% to $1.1 billion in 2009. Gardasil, the worlds top selling HPV vaccine, is indicated for girls and women 9 through 26 years of age for the prevention of cervical, vulvar and vaginal cancers caused by HPV types 16 and 18, precancerous or dysplastic lesions caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18, and genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11. Gardasil is also approved in the United States for use in boys and men ages 9 through 26 years of age for the prevention of genital warts caused by HPV types 6 and 11. In December 2010, the FDA approved a new indication for Gardasil for the prevention of anal cancer caused by HPV types 16 and 18 and for the prevention of anal intraepithelial neoplasia grades 1, 2 and 3 (anal dysplasias and precancerous lesions) caused by HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18, in males and females 9 through 26 years of age. Sales performance in 2010 and 2009 was driven largely by declines in the United States, as well as in Australia during 2010, which continue to be affected by the saturation of the 13 to 18 year old female cohort. Sales in 2009 include $51 million of revenue as a result of government purchases for the CDCs Strategic National Stockpile. The Company is a party to certain third party license agreements with respect to Gardasil (including a cross license and settlement agreement with GlaxoSmithKline). As a result of these agreements, the Company pays royalties on worldwide Gardasil sales of 21% to 27% which vary by country and are included in Materials and production costs. In January 2009, the FDA issued a second complete response letter regarding the sBLA for the use of Gardasil in women ages 27 through 45. The FDA completed its review of the response that Old Merck provided in July 2008 to the FDAs first complete response letter issued in June 2008 and recommended that Old Merck submit additional data when the 48 month study has been completed. Merck provided a response to the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2009. Discussions continue with the FDA to determine how adult women study data may be included in the prescribing information for Gardasil. The complete response letter does not affect current indications for Gardasil in females ages 9 through 26. Global sales of RotaTeq, a vaccine to help protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis in infants and children, recorded by Merck declined 1% in 2010 to $519 million. Sales during 2010 benefited modestly from a temporary competitor supply issue. Sales declined 21% in 2009 to $522 million reflecting competitive pressures. In recent years the Company has experienced difficulties in producing its varicella zoster virus (VZV) containing vaccines. These difficulties have resulted in supply constraints for ProQuad, Varivax and Zostavax. The Company is manufacturing bulk varicella and is producing doses of Varivax and Zostavax. A limited quantity of ProQuad, a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella, one of the VZV containing vaccines, became available in the United States for ordering in the second quarter of 2010. Actual market demand will dictate how long supply will last. Sales as recorded by Merck for ProQuad were $134 million in 2010 and $9 million in 2008. ProQuad was not available for ordering in 2009 due to supply constraints. Mercks sales of Varivax, a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella), were $929 million in 2010, $1.0 billion in 2009 and $925 million in 2008. Sales for 2010 and 2009 reflect $48 million and $64 million, respectively, of revenue as a result of government purchases for the CDCs Strategic National Stockpile. Mercks sales of M M R II, a vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps and rubella, were $315 million in 2010, $331 million in 2009 and $334 million in 2008. Sales of Varivax and M M R II were affected by the unavailability of ProQuad as noted above. 58 Sales of Zostavax, a vaccine to help prevent shingles (herpes zoster), recorded by Merck were $243 million in 2010, $277 million in 2009 and $312 million in 2008. Sales in all of these years were affected by supply issues. Customers experienced backorders for Zostavax during 2010. Merck began filling backorders in December 2010. The Company expects to continue to release doses in 2011, but product backorders are expected to continue through at least the first quarter of 2011 and the Company anticipates sales in future quarters will be affected by availability of supply. Due to these supply constraints, no new international launches or immunization programs are currently planned for 2011. During 2010, Merck filed a Supplemental Biologics License Application with the FDA for the use of Zostavax to prevent shingles in people 50 to 59 years of age. Sales of Pneumovax, a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease, were $376 million for 2010, $346 million for 2009 and $249 million for 2008. The increase in 2009 as compared with 2008 was due to favorable pricing in the United States and higher demand associated with the flu pandemic. In 2009, Old Merck entered into an exclusive agreement with CSL Biotherapies (CSL), a subsidiary of CSL Limited, to market and distribute Afluria, CSLs seasonal influenza (flu) vaccine, in the United States, for the 2010/2011 2015/2016 flu seasons. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will assume responsibility for all aspects of commercialization of Afluria in the United States. CSL will supply Afluria to Merck and will retain responsibility for marketing the vaccine outside the United States. Afluria is indicated for the active immunization of persons age 6 months and older against influenza disease caused by influenza virus subtypes A and type B present in the vaccine. Sales of Afluria were $50 million in 2010. In January 2010, PedvaxHIB became fully available in the United States for routine vaccination as well as for booster dose catch up vaccination. The timing of availability outside the United States is dependent upon local regulatory requirements. Comvax became available in the third quarter of 2010. The pediatric/adolescent formulation of Vaqta, a vaccine against hepatitis A, is available. Mercks adult formulation will not be available in the United States until after 2011. Outside of the United States, the supply of Vaqta is limited and availability will vary by region. The pediatric/adolescent formulation of Recombivax HB, a vaccine against hepatitis B, is available and the dialysis formulation became available in the third quarter of 2010. The Company currently anticipates availability of the adult formulation of Recombivax HB in the first half of 2012. In April 2010, Merck and MassBiologics (MBL) of the University of Massachusetts Medical School entered into an agreement that provides Merck with exclusive rights to market and distribute MBLs tetanus and diphtheria toxoids adsorbed (Td) vaccine in the United States, with the exception of Massachusetts, where MBL will continue distributing the vaccine. Merck began distributing the Td vaccine in June 2010. Womens Health and Endocrine Worldwide sales of NuvaRing, a contraceptive product, were $559 million during 2010 and $88 million for the post Merger period in 2009. Global sales of Follistim AQ (marketed in most countries outside the United States as Puregon), a fertility treatment, were $528 million during 2010 and were $96 million for the post Merger period in 2009. Puregon lost market exclusivity in the EU in August 2009. Other products contained in the Womens Health and Endocrine franchise include among others, Implanon, a single rod subdermal contraceptive implant; Cerazette, a progestin only oral contraceptive; and Elonva, a fertility treatment. The Company is currently experiencing difficulty manufacturing certain womens health products. The Company is working to resolve these issues. Other In January 2010, the Company, AZLP and Teva (which acquired IVAX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (IVAX)) entered into a settlement agreement to resolve patent litigation with respect to esomeprazole (Nexium) which provides that Teva/IVAX will not bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States until May 27, 2014. During 2008, Old Merck and AZLP entered into a similar agreement with Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. 59 (Ranbaxy) which provides that Ranbaxy will not bring its generic esomeprazole product to market in the United States until May 27, 2014. The Company faces other challenges with respect to outstanding patent infringement matters for esomeprazole (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). AstraZeneca has an option to buy Old Mercks interest in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable in 2012, and the Company believes that it is likely that AstraZeneca will exercise that option (see Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information below). Animal Health Animal Health includes pharmaceutical and vaccine products for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major farm and companion animal species. Animal Health sales are affected by intense competition and the frequent introduction of generic products. Global sales of Animal Health products totaled $2.9 billion during 2010 reflecting continued strong performance among cattle, poultry, companion animal and swine products. Global sales of Animal Health products totaled $494 million for the post Merger period in 2009. During the first quarter of 2010, sanofi aventis exercised its option to require the Company to seek to combine its Animal Health business with Merial Limited to form an animal health joint venture. The formation of the animal health joint venture is expected to be dilutive to the Companys earnings for the first 12 months after the transaction closes. (See Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information below.) Consumer Care Consumer Care products include over the counter, foot care and sun care products such as Dr. Scholls foot care products; Claritin non drowsy antihistamines; MiraLAX, a treatment for occasional constipation; and Coppertone sun care products. Global sales of Consumer Care products were $1.3 billion during 2010 reflecting strong performance of a number of key brands including Dr. Scholls and Coppertone. Consumer Care product sales were $149 million for the post Merger period in 2009. Consumer Care product sales are affected by competition, frequent competitive product introductions and consumer spending patterns. In April 2010, Zegerid OTC, an over the counter option for treating frequent heartburn without prescription, became available in drug stores, grocery stores, mass merchandisers and club stores nationwide. The FDA approved Zegerid in December 2009 for over the counter use. Costs Expenses and Other ($ in millions) 2010 Change 2009 Change 2008 Materials and production $ 18,396 * $ 9,019 62 % $ 5,583 Marketing and administrative 13,245 55 % 8,543 16 % 7,377 Research and development(1) 10,991 88 % 5,845 22 % 4,805 Restructuring costs 985 40 % 1,634 58 % 1,033 Equity income from affiliates (587 ) 74 % (2,235 ) 13 % (2,561 ) Other (income) expense, net 1,304 * (10,668 ) * (2,318 ) $ 44,334 * $ 12,138 13 % $ 13,919 * 100% or greater. (1) Includes $2.4 billion of IPRD impairment charges in 2010 and restructuring costs in all years. Materials and Production Materials and production costs were $18.4 billion in 2010, $9.0 billion in 2009 and $5.6 billion in 2008. Materials and production costs in 2010 and in the post Merger period of 2009 include expenses related to the sale of legacy Schering Plough and MSP Partnership products. Additionally, these costs were unfavorably affected by $4.6 billion and $0.8 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively, of expense for the amortization of intangible assets and $2.0 billion and $1.5 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively, of amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to Schering Ploughs inventories recognized in the Merger. Also included in materials and production costs in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $429 million, $115 million and $123 million, respectively, of costs associated with 60 restructuring activities, including accelerated depreciation and asset write offs related to the planned sale or closure of manufacturing facilities. Separation costs associated with manufacturing related headcount reductions have been incurred and are reflected in Restructuring costs as discussed below. (See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.) Gross margin was 60.0% in 2010 compared with 67.1% in 2009 and 76.6% in 2008. The amortization of intangible assets and purchase accounting adjustments to inventories recorded in 2010 and 2009 as a result of the Merger and the restructuring charges reflected in all periods as noted above had an unfavorable impact of 15.2 percentage points in 2010, 8.8 percentage points in 2009 and 0.5 percentage points in 2008. Marketing and Administrative Marketing and administrative expenses were $13.2 billion in 2010, $8.5 billion in 2009 and $7.4 billion in 2008. The increases were driven largely by the inclusion of expenses related to Schering Plough activities during 2010 and in the post Merger period of 2009. Additionally, $379 million of merger related costs were recognized in 2010 consisting largely of integration costs, as well as costs incurred in conjunction with the potential formation of the animal health joint venture with sanofi aventis, compared with $371 million of merger related costs recognized in 2009 consisting largely of transaction costs directly related to the Merger (including advisory and legal fees) and integration costs. In addition, expenses for 2010 included $144 million of restructuring costs, primarily related to accelerated depreciation for facilities to be closed or divested. These increases were partially offset by initiatives to reduce the cost base. Separation costs associated with sales force reductions have been incurred and are reflected in Restructuring costs as discussed below. In addition, marketing and administrative expenses benefited from foreign exchange during 2009. Marketing and administrative expenses in 2010, 2009 and 2008 included $106 million, $75 million and $62 million, respectively, of additional reserves solely for future Vioxx legal defense costs. (See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on Vioxx litigation related matters). Research and Development Research and development expenses were $11.0 billion in 2010, $5.8 billion in 2009 and $4.8 billion in 2008. The increases were due in part to the incremental expenditures associated with the inclusion of Schering Ploughs operations in 2010 and for the post Merger period of 2009. In addition, during 2010, the Company recorded $2.4 billion of IPRD impairment charges. Of this amount, $1.7 billion related to the write down of the intangible asset for vorapaxar resulting from developments in the clinical program for this compound (see Research and Development below). The remaining $763 million of IPRD impairment charges were attributable to compounds that were abandoned and determined to have either no alternative use or were returned to the respective licensor, as well as from expected delays in the launch timing or changes in the cash flow assumptions for certain compounds. The Company may recognize additional non cash impairment charges in the future for the cancellation or delay of other legacy Schering Plough pipeline programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with the Merger and such charges could be material. Additionally, research and development expenses in 2010, 2009 and 2008 reflect $428 million, $232 million and $128 million, respectively, of costs associated with restructuring activities, including accelerated depreciation and asset abandonment costs. (See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.) Also, research and development expenses in 2010 include a $50 million payment related to the restructuring of Mercks agreement with ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (ARIAD) (see Research and Development below), while expenses in 2009 reflect upfront payments associated with external licensing activity. Research and development expenses in 2009 as compared with 2008 also reflect an increase in development spending in support of the continued advancement of the research pipeline, including investments in late stage clinical trials. For segment reporting, research and development costs are unallocated. Share Based Compensation Total pretax share based compensation expense was $509 million in 2010, $415 million in 2009 and $348 million in 2008. At December 31, 2010, there was $416 million of total pretax unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested stock option, restricted stock unit and performance share unit awards which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.8 years. For segment reporting, share based compensation costs are unallocated expenses. 61 Restructuring Costs Restructuring costs were $985 million, $1.6 billion and $1.0 billion for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Of the restructuring costs recorded in 2010, $915 million related to the Merger Restructuring Program, $77 million related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and the remaining difference related to the legacy Schering Plough Productivity Transformation Program, which included a gain on the sale of a manufacturing facility. Of the restructuring costs recorded in 2009, $1.4 billion related to the Merger Restructuring Program, $178 million related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and $39 million related to the legacy Schering Plough Productivity Transformation Program. Of the restructuring costs recorded in 2008, $736 million related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and the remainder was associated with the 2005 Restructuring Program. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, separation costs of $768 million, $1.4 billion and $957 million, respectively, were incurred associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as estimated expenses under existing severance programs for headcount reductions that were probable and could be reasonably estimated. Merck eliminated 12,465 positions in 2010 (of which 11,410 related to the Merger Restructuring Program, 890 related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and the remainder to the legacy Schering Plough Productivity Transformation Program), 3,525 positions in 2009 (most of which related to the 2008 Restructuring Program) and 5,800 positions in 2008 (of which approximately 1,750 related to the 2008 Restructuring Program and 4,050 related to the 2005 Restructuring Program). These position eliminations are comprised of actual headcount reductions, and the elimination of contractors and vacant positions. Also included in restructuring costs are curtailment, settlement and termination charges on pension and other postretirement benefit plans, as well as contract termination and shutdown costs. For segment reporting, restructuring costs are unallocated expenses. Additional costs associated with the Companys restructuring activities are included in Materials and production, Marketing and administrative and Research and development. Equity Income from Affiliates Equity income from affiliates, which reflects the performance of the Companys joint ventures and other equity method affiliates, declined to $587 million in 2010. Equity income from affiliates no longer includes equity income from the MSP Partnership, which became wholly owned by the Company as a result of the Merger and therefore its results have been included in the consolidated results of the Company beginning from the date of the Merger, or from Merial Limited (Merial) due the sale of Old Mercks interest in September 2009. In addition, lower partnership returns from AZLP, as well as lower equity income from SPMSD as a result of restructuring charges recorded by the joint venture, also contributed to the decline. In 2009, equity income from affiliates declined to $2.2 billion primarily driven by lower equity income from the MSP Partnership and Merial resulting from the 2009 Merger related events discussed above, partially offset by higher partnership returns from AZLP. (See Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information below.) Other (Income) Expense, Net The change in other (income) expense, net for 2010 as compared with 2009 primarily reflects a $7.5 billion gain in 2009 resulting from recognizing Mercks previously held equity interest in the MSP Partnership at fair value as a result of obtaining control of the MSP Partnership in the Merger (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements), a $3.2 billion gain in 2009 on the sale of Old Mercks interest in Merial (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements), a $950 million charge for the Vioxx Liability Reserve recorded in 2010 (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements), lower recognized net gains in 2010 on the Companys investment portfolio and charges recorded in 2010 related to the settlement of certain pending Average Wholesale Prices litigation (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). Lower interest income and higher interest expense in 2010 as a result of the Merger also contributed to the year over year change. In addition, as discussed below, during 2010 the Company recognized exchange losses of $200 million due to two Venezuelan currency devaluations during the year. These items were partially offset by $443 million of income recognized in 2010 upon AstraZenecas asset option exercise (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements) and $102 million of income recognized in 2010 on the settlement of certain disputed royalties. Effective January 1, 2010, the Company was required to remeasure its local currency operations in Venezuela to U.S. dollars as the Venezuelan economy was determined to be hyperinflationary. Effective January 11, 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency from at BsF 2.15 per U.S. dollar to a two tiered official exchange rate at (1) the essentials rate at BsF 2.60 per U.S. dollar and (2) the non essentials rate at BsF 4.30 per 62 U.S. dollar. Throughout 2010, the Company settled transactions at the essentials rate and therefore remeasured monetary assets and liabilities utilizing the essentials rate. In December 2010, the Venezuelan government announced it would eliminate the essentials rate and effective January 1, 2011, all transactions would be settled at the official rate of at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. As a result of this announcement, the Company remeasured its December 31, 2010 monetary assets and liabilities at the new official rate. Included in other (income) expense, net in 2009 was the $7.5 billion gain related to Mercks previously held interest in the MSP Partnership and the $3.2 billion gain recognized on the sale of Old Mercks interest in Merial. Also included in other (income) expense, net in 2009 was $231 million of investment portfolio recognized net gains, and an $80 million charge related to the settlement of the Vioxx third party payor litigation in the United States. Included in other (income) expense, net in 2008 was an aggregate gain on distribution from AZLP of $2.2 billion, a gain of $249 million related to the sale of the remaining worldwide rights to Aggrastat, a $300 million expense for a contribution to the Merck Company Foundation, $117 million of investment portfolio recognized net losses and a $58 million charge related to the resolution of an investigation into whether Old Merck violated state consumer protection laws with respect to the sales and marketing of Vioxx. Merck experienced a decline in interest income in 2009 as compared with 2008 primarily as a result of lower interest rates and a change in the investment portfolio mix toward cash and shorter dated securities in anticipation of the Merger. Merck recognized higher interest expense in 2009 largely due to $173 million of commitment fees and incremental interest expense related to the financing of the Merger. Segment Profits ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Pharmaceutical segment profits $ 24,003 $ 15,715 $ 14,110 Other non reportable segment profits 2,423 1,735 1,691 Other (24,773 ) (2,160 ) (5,870 ) Income before income taxes $ 1,653 $ 15,290 $ 9,931 Segment profits are comprised of segment revenues less certain elements of materials and production costs and operating expenses, including components of equity income or loss from affiliates and depreciation and amortization expenses. For internal management reporting presented to the chief operating decision maker, Merck does not allocate production costs, other than standard costs, research and development expenses or general and administrative expenses, nor the cost of financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by these divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment profits. Also excluded from the determination of segment profits are the Vioxx Liability Reserve and the gain on AstraZenecas asset option exercise recognized in 2010, the gains related to the MSP Partnership and the disposition of Merial in 2009, and the gain on distribution from AZLP in 2008, as well as the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, IPRD impairment charges, restructuring costs, taxes paid at the joint venture level and a portion of equity income. Additionally, segment profits do not reflect other expenses from corporate and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income or expense. These unallocated items are reflected in Other in the above table. Also included in Other are miscellaneous corporate profits, operating profits related to third party manufacturing sales, divested products or businesses, as well as other supply sales and adjustments to eliminate the effect of double counting certain items of income and expense. Pharmaceutical segment profits rose 53% in 2010 and increased 11% in 2009. These increases were largely driven by the inclusion of legacy Schering Plough results. Taxes on Income The effective income tax rate was 40.6% in 2010, 14.8% in 2009 and 20.1% in 2008. The 2010 effective tax rate reflects the unfavorable impacts of purchase accounting charges, IPRD impairment charges, restructuring charges, the Vioxx Liability Reserve for which no tax impact was recorded, a $147 million charge associated with a change in tax law that requires taxation of the prescription drug subsidy of the Companys retiree health benefit plans which was enacted in the first quarter of 2010 as part of U.S. health care reform legislation, and the impact of AstraZenecas asset option exercise. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by a $391 million tax benefit 63 from changes in a foreign entitys tax rate, which resulted in a reduction in deferred tax liabilities on product intangibles recorded in conjunction with the Merger, the favorable impact of the enactment of the tax extenders legislation, including the RD tax credit, and the favorable impact of foreign earnings and dividends from the Companys foreign subsidiaries. The 2009 effective tax rate reflects the favorable impacts of increased income in lower tax jurisdictions, which includes the favorable impact of the MSP Partnership gain, and higher expenses in certain jurisdictions including the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments and restructuring costs. The effective income tax rate in 2009 also benefited from 2009 tax settlements, including the previously announced settlement with the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA). These favorable impacts were partially offset by the unfavorable effect of the gain on the sale of Old Mercks interest in Merial which was taxable in the United States at a combined federal and state tax rate of approximately 38.0%. The 2008 effective tax rate reflects favorable impacts relating to tax settlements that resulted in a reduction of the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $200 million, the realization of foreign tax credits and the favorable tax impact of foreign exchange rate changes during the fourth quarter, particularly the strengthening of the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by an unfavorable impact resulting from the AZLP gain being fully taxable in the United States at a combined federal and state tax rate of approximately 36.3%. In the first quarter of 2008, Old Merck decided to distribute certain prior years foreign earnings to the United States which resulted in a utilization of foreign tax credits. These foreign tax credits arose as a result of tax payments made outside of the United States in prior years that became realizable in the first quarter based on a change in Old Mercks decision to distribute these foreign earnings. Net Income and Earnings per Common Share Net income attributable to Merck Co., Inc. was $861 million in 2010, $12.9 billion in 2009 and $7.8 billion in 2008. Earnings per common share assuming dilution available to common shareholders (EPS) were $0.28 in 2010, $5.65 in 2009 and $3.63 in 2008. The declines in net income and EPS in 2010 as compared with 2009 were primarily due to the gains recognized in 2009 associated with the MSP Partnership as a result of the Merger and the disposition of Merial, as well as incremental costs in 2010 as a result of the Merger, including the recognition of a full year of amortization of intangible assets and inventory step up. In addition, IPRD impairment charges, the Vioxx Liability Reserve, lower equity income from affiliates and the impact of U.S. health care reform legislation also contributed to the declines in net income and EPS in 2010. The increases in net income and earnings per share in 2009 as compared with 2008 were largely driven by the MSP Partnership and Merial gains, partially offset by incremental charges associated with the Merger, including the amortization of intangible assets and inventory step up and the recognition of merger related costs. EPS in 2009 was also affected by the dilutive impact of shares issued in the Merger. Non GAAP Income and Non GAAP EPS Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS are alternative views of the Companys performance used by management that Merck is providing because management believes this information enhances investors understanding of the Companys results. Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact that they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. The excluded items consist of certain purchase accounting items related to the Merger, restructuring activities, merger related costs, and certain other items. These excluded items are significant components in understanding and assessing financial performance. Therefore, the information on non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS should be considered in addition to, but not in lieu of, net income and EPS prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Additionally, since non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS are not measures determined in accordance with GAAP, they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS are important internal measures for the Company. Senior management receives a monthly analysis of operating results that includes non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS and the performance of the Company is measured on this basis along with other performance metrics. Senior managements annual compensation is derived in part using non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS. 64 A reconciliation between GAAP financial measures and non GAAP financial measures is as follows: ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Pretax income as reported under GAAP $ 1,653 $ 15,290 $ 9,931 Increase (decrease) for excluded items: Purchase accounting adjustments 9,007 2,286 Restructuring costs 1,986 1,981 1,284 Merger related costs 396 544 Other items: Vioxx Liability Reserve 950 Gain on AstraZeneca asset option exercise (443 ) Gain related to the MSP Partnership (7,530 ) Gain on Merial divestiture (3,163 ) Gain on distribution from AZLP (2,223 ) 13,549 9,408 8,992 Taxes on income as reported under GAAP 671 2,268 1,999 Estimated tax benefit (expense) on excluded items 1,798 (390 ) (472 ) Tax benefit from foreign entity tax rate changes 391 Tax charge related to U.S. health care reform legislation (147 ) Non GAAP taxes on income 2,713 1,878 1,527 Non GAAP net income $ 10,836 $ 7,530 $ 7,465 2010 2009 2008 EPS assuming dilution as reported under GAAP $ 0.28 $ 5.65 $ 3.63 EPS difference(1) 3.14 (2.40 ) (0.21 ) Non GAAP EPS assuming dilution $ 3.42 $ 3.25 $ 3.42 (1) Represents the difference between calculated GAAP EPS and calculated non GAAP EPS, which may be different than the amount calculated by dividing the impact of the excluded items by the weighted average shares. Purchase Accounting Adjustments Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude the ongoing impact of certain amounts recorded in connection with the Merger. These amounts include the amortization of intangible assets and inventory step up, as well as IPRD impairment charges (see Research and Development below). Restructuring Costs Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude costs related to restructuring actions, including restructuring activities related to the Merger (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). These amounts include employee separation costs and accelerated depreciation associated with facilities to be closed or divested. Accelerated depreciation costs represent the difference between the depreciation expense to be recognized over the revised useful life of the site, based upon the anticipated date the site will be closed or divested, and depreciation expense as determined utilizing the useful life prior to the restructuring actions. The Company has undertaken restructurings of different types during the covered periods and therefore these charges should not be considered non recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS because it believes it is helpful for understanding the performance of the continuing business. Merger Related Costs Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude transaction costs associated directly with the Merger, as well as integration costs. These costs are excluded because management believes that these costs are unique to the 65 Merger transaction and are not representative of ongoing normal business activities. Integration costs associated with the Merger will occur over several years; however, the impacts within each year will vary as the integration progresses. These costs include costs associated with the potential formation of an animal health joint venture with sanofi aventis. Certain Other Items Non GAAP income and non GAAP EPS exclude certain other items. These items represent substantive, unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspect of their unusual nature and generally represent items that, either as a result of their nature or magnitude, management would not anticipate that they would occur as part of the Companys normal business on a regular basis. Certain other items include the Vioxx Liability Reserve, the gain recognized upon AstraZenecas asset option exercise, the gain on recognizing Mercks previously held equity interest in the MSP Partnership at fair value as a result of obtaining a controlling interest in the Merger, the gain on the divestiture of Old Mercks interest in Merial and the gain on a distribution from AZLP. Research and Development A chart reflecting the Companys current research pipeline as of February 16, 2011 is set forth in Item 1. Business Research and Development above. Research and Development Update In connection with the Merger, during 2009, the Company began assessing its pipeline to identify the most promising, high potential compounds for development. The full prioritization process was completed during 2010. The Company currently has a number of candidates under regulatory review in the United States and internationally. Boceprevir is an investigational oral hepatitis C virus protease inhibitor currently under development. Full data results for two pivotal late stage studies for boceprevir were presented in November 2010 at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Study of Liver Disease which showed that boceprevir demonstrated significantly higher sustained virologic response rates in adult patients who previously failed treatment and in adult patients who were new to treatment for chronic hepatitis C virus genotype 1 compared to control, the primary objective of the studies. Based on these data, regulatory applications for boceprevir were submitted in 2010 and have been accepted for expedited review in both the United States and the EU. MK 0431A XR, the Companys investigational extended release formulation of Janumet, was accepted for standard review by the FDA in 2010. The Company is also moving forward as planned with regulatory filings in countries outside the United States. The extended release formulation of Janumet is an investigational treatment for type 2 diabetes that combines sitagliptin, which is the active component of Januvia, with metformin extended release, a commonly prescribed medication for type 2 diabetes, into a single tablet. This formulation is designed to provide a new treatment option for health care providers and patients who need two or more oral agents to help control their blood sugar with the convenience of once daily dosing. SCH 900121, NOMAC/E2, is an oral contraceptive that combines a selective progestin with 17 beta estradiol, an estrogen that is identical to the one naturally present in a womens body. The drug is currently under review in the EU. It is also in Phase III development for the U.S. market. MK 3009, Cubicin daptomycin for injection, is currently under review in Japan. As previously disclosed, in 2007, Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Cubist) entered into a license agreement with Old Merck for the development and commercialization of Cubicin, for the treatment of staph infection, in Japan where the Company has the commercial rights to the drug candidate. Merck will develop and commercialize Cubicin through its wholly owned subsidiary in Japan. Cubist commercializes Cubicin in the United States. MK 0431D is a combination of Januvia and Zocor for the treatment of diabetes and dyslipidemia which was accepted for standard review by the FDA in 2011. 66 In addition to the candidates under regulatory review, the Company has 19 drug candidates in Phase III development. Vorapaxar is a thrombin receptor antagonist or antiplatelet protease activated receptor 1 inhibitor being studied for the prevention and treatment of thrombosis. Merck was studying vorapaxar in two major clinical endpoint trials to evaluate the investigational medicine for the prevention of cardiac events: TRACER, a study in patients with acute coronary syndrome which has ended, and TRA 2P (also known as TIMI 50), a study in patients with prior heart attack, stroke and peripheral artery disease which is continuing in large part. Both studies were designed as event driven trials in which patients were planned to be followed for a minimum of one year, and both had completed enrollment. In January 2011, Merck announced that the combined DSMB for the two studies had reviewed the available safety and efficacy data, and made recommendations for study changes to the chairpersons of the steering committees for the two studies. The study chairpersons agreed to implement these changes, and as a result: in the TRACER study, patients were to discontinue study drug and investigators were to begin to close out the study in a timely and orderly fashion. In the TRA 2P study, study drug was continued in patients who had experienced a previous heart attack or peripheral arterial disease (approximately 75% of the patients enrolled in the study), and was immediately discontinued in patients who experienced a stroke prior to entry into the study or during the course of the study. Merck subsequently announced that the chairman of the TRA 2P study reported to investigators that the DSMB had communicated that based on all of the data (safety and efficacy) available to them from both trials, they recommended that subjects with a history of stroke not receive vorapaxar. The DSMB had observed an increase in intracranial hemorrhage in patients with a history of stroke that is not outweighed by their considerations of potential benefit. Merck plans to update its projections for regulatory filings for vorapaxar once the Company has received the efficacy and safety data from TRACER and can determine an updated completion date for TRA 2P. TRACER has accumulated the pre defined number of primary and major secondary endpoints, although not all patients will continue to receive study drug through the pre specified one year follow up. Merck continues to expect that the efficacy and safety data from TRACER will become available later in 2011 and will be submitted for presentation at appropriate medical meetings. As a result of these developments, the Company concluded there was a 2010 impairment triggering event related to the vorapaxar intangible asset. Although there is a great deal of information related to these developments that remains unknown to the Company, utilizing market participant assumptions and considering several different scenarios, the Company concluded that its best estimate of the current fair value of the intangible asset related to vorapaxar was $350 million, which resulted in the recognition of an impairment charge of $1.7 billion during 2010. The Company will continue to monitor the remaining asset value for further impairment. MK 8669, ridaforolimus, is a novel mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of cancer. Merck is currently developing ridaforolimus in multiple cancer indications under an exclusive license and collaboration agreement with ARIAD. In January 2011, ARIAD announced top line data showing that ridaforolimus met the primary endpoint of improved progression free survival compared to placebo in the Phase III SUCCEED trial conducted in patients with metastatic soft tissue or bone sarcomas who previously had a favorable response to chemotherapy. Complete findings from the SUCCEED trial will be submitted for presentation at an upcoming medical meeting in 2011. This trial remains active, and study participants continue to be followed to gather additional data on secondary endpoints, including overall survival and the safety profile of ridaforolimus. Merck currently plans to file an NDA with the FDA for oral ridaforolimus in 2011, subject to final collection and analysis of all available data from the trial. MK 2452, Saflutan (tafluprost), is a preservative free, synthetic analogue of the prostaglandin F2 for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in appropriate patients with primary open angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. In April 2009, Old Merck and Santen Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. announced a worldwide licensing agreement for tafluprost. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA for Saflutan in 2011. As previously disclosed, Old Merck submitted for filing an NDA with the FDA for MK 0653C, ezetimibe combined with atorvastatin, which is an investigational medication for the treatment of dyslipidemia, and the FDA refused to file the application in 2009. The FDA has identified additional manufacturing and stability data that are needed; the Company anticipates filing an NDA in 2011. 67 As previously disclosed, in 2009, Old Merck announced it was delaying the filing of the U.S. application for MK 0974, telcagepant, the Companys investigational calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist for the acute treatment of migraine. The decision was based on findings from a Phase IIa exploratory study in which a small number of patients taking telcagepant twice daily for three months for the prevention of migraine were found to have marked elevations in liver transaminases. The daily dosing regimen in the prevention study was different than the dosing regimen used in Phase III studies in which telcagepant was intermittently administered in one or two doses to treat individual migraine attacks as they occurred. Following meetings with regulatory agencies at the end of 2009, Merck is conducting an additional safety study as part of the overall Phase III program for telcagepant. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in 2011. SCH 900616, Bridion (sugammadex), is a medication designed to rapidly reverse the effects of certain muscle relaxants used as part of general anesthesia to ensure patients remain immobile during surgical procedures. Bridion has received regulatory approval in the EU, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and a number of other markets. Prior to the Merger, Schering Plough received a complete response letter from the FDA for Bridion. Following further communication from the FDA, the Company is assessing the agencys feedback in order to determine a new timetable for response. SCH 697243 is an investigational allergy immunotherapy sublingual tablet (AIT) for grass pollen allergy for which the Company has North American rights. In March 2010, data from a Phase III study in children and adolescents (ages 5 17 years) with grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis were presented at the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma Immunology Annual Meeting. Allergic rhinoconjunctivitis, or runny nose and itchy, watery eyes due to allergies, is a common condition in children and adolescents. AIT is a dissolvable oral tablet that is designed to prevent allergy symptoms by inducing a protective immune response against allergies, thereby treating the underlying cause of the disease. Merck is investigating AIT for the treatment of grass pollen allergic rhinoconjunctivitis in both children and adults. The anticipated U.S. filing date for SCH 697243 is under assessment. SCH 039641, an AIT for ragweed allergy, is also in Phase III development for the North American market. The anticipated filing date for SCH 039641 is under assessment. SCH 418131, Zenhale, is a fixed dose combination of two previously approved drugs for the treatment of asthma: mometasone furoate and formoterol fumarate dehydrate. In November 2010, the Company advised the European Medicines Agency (EMA) that it was withdrawing the application for marketing authorization for Zenhale, which has been approved for use in asthma patients 12 years of age and older in the United States as Dulera Inhalation Aerosol. The Company decided to withdraw the application for Zenhale to address questions outstanding between the Company and the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the EMA. The Company expects to resubmit the application in the future. MK 0431C, a candidate currently in Phase III clinical development, combines Januvia with pioglitazone, another type 2 diabetes therapy. The Company expects it will file an NDA for MK 0431C with the FDA in 2012. MK 0822, odanacatib, is an oral, once weekly investigational treatment for osteoporosis in post menopausal women. Osteoporosis is a disease which reduces bone density and strength and results in an increased risk of bone fractures. Odanacatib is a cathepsin K inhibitor that selectively inhibits the cathepsin K enzyme. Cathepsin K is known to play a central role in the function of osteoclasts, which are cells that break down existing bone tissue, particularly the protein components of bone. Inhibition of cathepsin K is a novel approach to the treatment of osteoporosis. Four year data on odanacatib were presented in October 2010 at the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research annual meeting. Clinical and preclinical studies continue to provide data on the potential of odanacatib to increase bone density, cortical thickness and bone strength when treating osteoporosis. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in 2012. V503 is a nine valent HPV vaccine in development to expand protection against cancer causing HPV types. The Phase III clinical program is underway and Merck anticipates filing a Biologics License Application (BLA) with the FDA in 2012. MK 0524A is a drug candidate that combines extended release niacin and a novel flushing inhibitor, laropiprant. MK 0524A has demonstrated the ability to lower LDL cholesterol (LDL C or bad cholesterol), 68 raise HDL cholesterol (HDL C or good cholesterol) and lower triglycerides with significantly less flushing than traditional extended release niacin alone. High LDL C, low HDL C and elevated triglycerides are risk factors associated with heart attacks and strokes. In April 2008, Old Merck received a non approvable action letter from the FDA in response to its NDA for MK 0524A. At a meeting to discuss the letter, the FDA stated that additional efficacy and safety data were required and suggested that Old Merck wait for the results of the Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence of Vascular Events (HPS2 THRIVE) cardiovascular outcomes study, which is expected to be completed in 2012. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA for MK 0524A in 2012. MK 0524A has been approved in more than 55 countries outside the United States for the treatment of dyslipidemia, particularly in patients with combined mixed dyslipidemia (characterized by elevated levels of LDL C and triglycerides and low HDL C) and in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial and non familial) and is marketed as Tredaptive (or as Cordaptive in certain countries). Tredaptive should be used in patients in combination with statins, when the cholesterol lowering effects of statin monotherapy is inadequate. Tredaptive can be used as monotherapy only in patients in whom statins are considered inappropriate or not tolerated. MK 0524B is a drug candidate that combines the novel approach to raising HDL C and lowering triglycerides from extended release niacin combined with laropiprant with the proven benefits of simvastatin in one combination product. Merck will not seek approval for MK 0524B in the United States until it files its complete response relating to MK 0524A. MK 4305 is an investigational dual orexin receptor antagonist, a potential new approach to the treatment of chronic insomnia, currently in Phase III development. In June 2010, clinical results from a Phase IIb study were presented at the Annual Meeting of the Associated Professional Sleep Societies which showed MK 4305 was significantly more effective than placebo in improving overall sleep efficiency at night one and at the end of week four in patients with primary insomnia. MK 4305 was generally well tolerated in the study. Orexins are neuropeptides (chemical messengers) that are released by specialized neurons in the hypothalamus region of the brain and are believed to be an important regulator of the brains sleep wake process. Phase III trials studying the efficacy and safety of MK 4305 in elderly and non elderly insomnia patients are ongoing. Merck anticipates filing regulatory applications for MK 4305 in 2012. SCH 900962, Elonva, corifollitropin alpha injection, which has been approved in the EU for controlled ovarian stimulation in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the development of multiple follicles in women participating in an assisted reproductive technology program, is currently in Phase III development in the United States. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in 2012. SCH 420814, preladenant, is a selective adenosine 2a receptor antagonist in Phase III development for treatment of Parkinsons disease. The Company continues to anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2012. V212 is an inactivated varicella zoster virus vaccine in Phase III development for prevention of herpes zoster. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2012. MK 0859, anacetrapib, is an investigational inhibitor of the cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) that is being investigated in lipid management to raise HDL C and reduce LDL C. In November 2010, researchers presented results from the Phase III DEFINE (Determining the EFficacy and Tolerability of CETP INhibition with AnacEtrapib) study with anacetrapib at the American Heart Association Scientific Sessions. In the trial of 1,623 patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) or CHD risk equivalents, anacetrapib showed no significant differences from placebo in the primary safety measures studied. There were no significant differences in mean changes in blood pressure between the anacetrapib and placebo treatment groups, nor were there any significant differences in serum electrolytes or aldosterone levels. During the 76 week treatment phase, the pre specified adjudicated cardiovascular endpoint (defined as cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, unstable angina or stroke) occurred in 16 anacetrapib treated patients (2.0%) compared with 21 placebo treated patients (2.6%). At 24 weeks, anacetrapib decreased LDL C by 40% and increased HDL C by 138% in patients already treated with a statin and at guideline recommended LDL C goal. Based on these results, the Company intends to move forward and study anacetrapib in a large cardiovascular clinical outcomes trial. The Company anticipates filing an NDA with the FDA beyond 2015. 69 The Company maintains a number of long term exploratory and fundamental research programs in biology and chemistry as well as research programs directed toward product development. The Companys research and development model is designed to increase productivity and improve the probability of success by prioritizing the Companys research and development resources on disease areas of unmet medical needs, scientific opportunity and commercial opportunity. Merck is managing its research and development portfolio across diverse approaches to discovery and development by balancing investments appropriately on novel, innovative targets with the potential to have a major impact on human health, on developing best in class approaches, and on delivering maximum value of its new medicines and vaccines through new indications and new formulations. Another important component of the Companys science based diversification is based on expanding the Companys portfolio of modalities to include not only small molecules and vaccines, but also biologics (peptides, small proteins, antibodies) and RNAi. Further, Merck has moved to diversify its portfolio through its Merck BioVentures division, which has the potential to harness the market opportunity presented by biological medicine patent expiries by delivering high quality follow on biologic products to enhance access for patients worldwide. The Company will continue to pursue appropriate external licensing opportunities. The integration efforts for research and development continue to focus on integrating the research operations of the legacy companies, including providing an effective transition for employees, realizing projected merger synergies in the form of cost savings and revenue growth opportunities, and maintaining momentum in the Companys late stage pipeline. Overall, the Companys global operating model will align franchise and function as well as align resources with disease area priorities and balance capacity across discovery phases and allow the Company to act upon those programs with the highest probability of success. Additionally, across all disease area priorities, the Companys strategy is designed to expand access to worldwide external science and incorporate external research as a key component of the Companys early discovery pipeline in order to translate basic research productivity into late stage clinical success. The Companys clinical pipeline includes candidates in multiple disease areas, including atherosclerosis, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, infectious diseases, inflammatory/autoimmune diseases, insomnia, migraine, neurodegenerative diseases, ophthalmics, osteoporosis, psychiatric diseases, respiratory diseases and womens health. The Company supplements its internal research with an aggressive licensing and external alliance strategy focused on the entire spectrum of collaborations from early research to late stage compounds, as well as new technologies. In Process Research and Development In connection with the Merger, the Company recorded the fair value of human and animal health research projects that were underway at Schering Plough and the MSP Partnership. The fair value of projects allocated to the Pharmaceutical and Animal Health operating segments was $5.3 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to IPRD were determined by using an income approach, through which fair value is estimated based on each assets probability adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the different stages of development of each product and the associated probability of successful completion. The net cash flows are then discounted to present value using discount rates which ranged from 12% to 15%. Actual cash flows are likely to be different than those assumed. Some of the more significant projects include boceprevir, Bridion and vorapaxar, as well as an ezetimibe/atorvastatin combination product. These projects are discussed in further detail above. As noted above, the Company filed an NDA with the FDA in 2010 for boceprevir and anticipates filing an NDA for the ezetimibe/atorvastatin combination product with the FDA in 2011. The Company determined that the developments in the clinical research program for vorapaxar discussed above constituted a triggering event that required the Company to evaluate the vorapaxar intangible asset for impairment. Although there is a great deal of information related to these developments that remains unknown to the Company, utilizing market participant assumptions, and considering several different scenarios, the Company concluded that its best estimate of the current fair value of the intangible asset related to vorapaxar was $350 million, which resulted in the recognition of an impairment charge of $1.7 billion during 2010. The Company will continue to monitor the remaining asset value for impairment. The Company anticipates the results from the TRACER 70 clinical trial will be available later in 2011. Also during 2010, the Company recorded an additional $763 million of IPRD impairment charges attributable to compounds that were abandoned and determined to have either no alternative use or were returned to the respective licensor, as well as from expected delays in the launch timing or changes in the cash flow assumptions for certain compounds. The Company has also recognized intangible assets for the fair value of research projects underway in connection with the SmartCells, Inc. (SmartCells) acquisition during 2010 and the Insmed, Inc. acquisition in 2009 (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). All of the IPRD projects that remain in development are subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties in drug development and it is possible that the Company will not be able to successfully develop and complete the IPRD programs and profitably commercialize the underlying product candidates. The time periods to receive approvals from the FDA and other regulatory agencies are subject to uncertainty. Significant delays in the approval process, or the Companys failure to obtain approval at all, would delay or prevent the Company from realizing revenues from these products. Additionally, if certain of the IPRD programs fail or are abandoned during development, then the Company will not realize the future cash flows it has estimated and recorded as IPRD as of the merger or acquisition date, and the Company may also not recover the research and development expenditures made since the Merger to further develop such program. If such circumstances were to occur, the Companys future operating results could be adversely affected and the Company may recognize impairment charges and such charges could be material. Additional research and development will be required before any of the programs reach technological feasibility. The costs to complete the research projects will depend on whether the projects are brought to their final stages of development and are ultimately submitted to the FDA or other regulatory agencies for approval. As of December 31, 2010, the estimated costs to complete projects acquired in connection with the Merger in Phase III development for human health and the analogous stage of development for animal health were approximately $1.9 billion. Acquisitions, Research Collaborations and License Agreements Merck continues to remain focused on augmenting its internal efforts by capitalizing on growth opportunities that will drive both near and long term growth. During 2010, the Company completed transactions across a broad range of therapeutic categories, including early stage technology transactions. Merck is actively monitoring the landscape for growth opportunities that meet the Companys strategic criteria. Highlights from these activities include: In December 2010, the Company acquired all of the outstanding stock of SmartCells, a private company developing a glucose responsive insulin formulation for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. The total purchase consideration, which the Company determined had a fair value at the acquisition date of $138 million, included an upfront cash payment, contingent consideration consisting of future clinical development and regulatory milestones, as well as contingent consideration on future sales of products resulting from the acquisition. The transaction was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting; accordingly, the assets and liabilities were recorded at their respective fair values on the acquisition date. The determination of fair value requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions. In connection with the acquisition, substantially all of the preliminary purchase price was allocated to IPRD; the remaining net assets acquired were not significant. The fair value of the contingent consideration was determined by utilizing a probability weighted estimated cash flow stream adjusted for the expected timing of each payment. Subsequent to the acquisition date, on a quarterly basis, the contingent consideration liability will be remeasured at current fair value with changes recorded in earnings. The results of operations of SmartCells have been included in the Companys results of operations from the date of acquisition and were not significant. Certain estimated values are not yet finalized and may be subject to change. The Company expects to finalize these amounts as soon as possible, but no later than one year from the acquisition date. In February 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of Avecia Biologics Limited (Avecia) for a total purchase price of approximately $190 million. Avecia is a contract manufacturing organization with specific expertise in microbial derived biologics. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company acquired Avecia and all of its assets, including all of Avecias process development and scale up, manufacturing, quality and business support 71 operations located in Billingham, United Kingdom. The transaction was accounted for as a business combination; accordingly, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. The determination of fair value requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions. In connection with the acquisition, substantially all of the purchase price was allocated to Avecias property, plant and equipment and goodwill. The remaining net assets acquired were not material. This transaction closed on February 1, 2010, and accordingly, the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in the Companys results of operations beginning after the acquisition date. Pro forma financial information has not been included because Avecias historical financial results are not significant when compared with the Companys financial results. In May 2010, Merck announced that it had restructured its co development and co commercialization agreement with ARIAD for ridaforolimus (MK 8669), an investigational orally available mTOR inhibitor currently being evaluated for the treatment of multiple cancer types, to an exclusive license agreement. Under the restructured agreement, Merck has acquired full control of the development and worldwide commercialization of ridaforolimus. ARIAD received a $50 million upfront fee, which the Company recorded as research and development expense in 2010, and is eligible to receive milestone payments associated with regulatory filings and approvals of ridaforolimus in multiple cancer indications and achievement of significant sales thresholds. In lieu of the profit split on U.S. sales provided for in the previous agreement, ARIAD will now receive royalties on global net sales of ridaforolimus, and all sales will be recorded by Merck. Merck has assumed responsibility for all activities and has acquired decision rights on matters relating to the development, manufacturing and commercialization of ridaforolimus. The Investigational New Drug Application has been transferred to Merck, and Merck will file the marketing application worldwide for any oncology indications and lead all interactions with regulatory agencies. The agreement is terminable by Merck upon nine months notice, or immediately upon a good faith determination of a serious safety issue. The agreement is terminable by either party as a result of insolvency by the other party or an uncured material breach by the other party or by ARIAD for a failure by Merck to perform certain product development responsibilities. Selected Joint Venture and Affiliate Information To expand its research base and realize synergies from combining capabilities, opportunities and assets, in previous years Old Merck formed a number of joint ventures. AstraZeneca LP In 1982, Old Merck entered into an agreement with Astra AB (Astra) to develop and market Astras products under a royalty bearing license. In 1993, Old Mercks total sales of Astra products reached a level that triggered the first step in the establishment of a joint venture business carried on by Astra Merck Inc. (AMI), in which Old Merck and Astra each owned a 50% share. This joint venture, formed in 1994, developed and marketed most of Astras new prescription medicines in the United States including Prilosec, the first of a class of medications known as proton pump inhibitors, which slows the production of acid from the cells of the stomach lining. In 1998, Old Merck and Astra completed the restructuring of the ownership and operations of the joint venture whereby Old Merck acquired Astras interest in AMI, renamed KBI Inc. (KBI), and contributed KBIs operating assets to a new U.S. limited partnership, Astra Pharmaceuticals L.P. (the Partnership), in exchange for a 1% limited partner interest. Astra contributed the net assets of its wholly owned subsidiary, Astra USA, Inc., to the Partnership in exchange for a 99% general partner interest. The Partnership, renamed AstraZeneca LP (AZLP) upon Astras 1999 merger with Zeneca Group Plc (the AstraZeneca merger), became the exclusive distributor of the products for which KBI retained rights. While maintaining a 1% limited partner interest in AZLP, Merck has consent and protective rights intended to preserve its business and economic interests, including restrictions on the power of the general partner to make certain distributions or dispositions. Furthermore, in limited events of default, additional rights will be granted to the Company, including powers to direct the actions of, or remove and replace, the Partnerships chief executive officer and chief financial officer. Merck earns ongoing revenue based on sales of KBI products and such revenue was $1.3 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.6 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily relating to sales of Nexium, as well as Prilosec. In addition, Merck earns certain Partnership returns which are recorded in Equity 72 income from affiliates. Such returns include a priority return provided for in the Partnership Agreement, variable returns based, in part, upon sales of certain former Astra USA, Inc. products, and a preferential return representing Mercks share of undistributed AZLP GAAP earnings. These returns aggregated $546 million, $674 million and $598 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The AstraZeneca merger constituted a Trigger Event under the KBI restructuring agreements, which resulted in the partial redemption in 2008 of Old Mercks interest in certain AZLP product rights. Upon this redemption, Old Merck received $4.3 billion from AZLP. This amount was based primarily on a multiple of Old Mercks average annual variable returns derived from sales of the former Astra USA, Inc. products for the three years prior to the redemption (the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value). Old Merck recorded a $1.5 billion pretax gain on the partial redemption in 2008. The partial redemption of Old Mercks interest in the product rights did not result in a change in Old Mercks 1% limited partnership interest. As a result of the AstraZeneca merger, in exchange for Old Mercks relinquishment of rights to future Astra products with no existing or pending U.S. patents at the time of the merger, Astra paid $967 million (the Advance Payment). The Advance Payment was deferred as it remained subject to a true up calculation (the True Up Amount) that was directly dependent on the fair market value in March 2008 of the Astra product rights retained by Old Merck. The calculated True Up Amount of $243 million was returned to AZLP in 2008 and Old Merck recognized a pretax gain of $724 million related to the residual Advance Payment balance. Under the provisions of the KBI restructuring agreements, because a Trigger Event has occurred, the sum of the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value, the Appraised Value (as discussed below) and the True Up Amount was guaranteed to be a minimum of $4.7 billion. Distribution of the Limited Partner Share of Agreed Value less payment of the True Up Amount resulted in cash receipts to Old Merck of $4.0 billion and an aggregate pretax gain of $2.2 billion which was included in Other (income) expense, net in 2008. Also, in March 2008, the $1.38 billion outstanding loan from Astra plus interest through the redemption date was settled. As a result of these transactions, Old Merck received net proceeds from AZLP of $2.6 billion in 2008. In conjunction with the 1998 restructuring discussed above, Astra purchased an option (the Asset Option) for a payment of $443 million, which was recorded as deferred income, to buy Old Mercks interest in the KBI products, excluding the gastrointestinal medicines Nexium and Prilosec (the Non PPI Products). In April 2010, AstraZeneca exercised the Asset Option. Merck received $647 million from AstraZeneca representing the net present value as of March 31, 2008 of projected future pretax revenue to be received by Old Merck from the Non PPI Products (the Appraised Value), which was recorded as a reduction to the Companys investment in AZLP. The Company recognized the $443 million of deferred income in 2010 as a component of Other (income) expense, net. In addition, in 1998, Old Merck granted Astra an option (the Shares Option) to buy Old Mercks common stock interest in KBI and, therefore, Old Mercks interest in Nexium and Prilosec, exercisable in 2012. The exercise price for the Shares Option will be based on the net present value of estimated future net sales of Nexium and Prilosec as determined at the time of exercise, subject to certain true up mechanisms. The Company believes that it is likely that AstraZeneca will exercise the Shares Option. Merck/Schering Plough Partnership In 2000, Old Merck and Schering Plough (collectively, the Partners) entered into an agreement to create an equally owned partnership to develop and market in the United States new prescription medicines for cholesterol management. In 2002, ezetimibe, the first in a new class of cholesterol lowering agents, was launched in the United States as Zetia (marketed as Ezetrol outside the United States). In 2004, a combination product containing the active ingredients of both Zetia and Zocor was approved in the United States as Vytorin (marketed as Inegy outside of the United States). The cholesterol agreements provided for the sharing of operating income generated by the MSP Partnership based upon percentages that varied by product, sales level and country. Operating income included expenses that the Partners contractually agreed to share. Expenses incurred in support of the MSP Partnership but not shared between the Partners were not included in Equity income from affiliates; however, these costs were reflected in the overall results of the Partners. 73 Sales of joint venture products were as follows(1): 2009 ($ in millions) Pre Merger Post Merger Total 2008 Vytorin $ 1,689 $ 371 $ 2,060 $ 2,360 Zetia 1,698 370 2,068 2,201 $ 3,387 $ 741 $ 4,128 $ 4,561 (1) Amounts exclude sales of these products by the Partners outside of the MSP Partnership. The results from Old Mercks interest in the MSP Partnership prior to the Merger are reflected in Equity income from affiliates and were $1.2 billion in 2009 and $1.5 billion in 2008. As a result of the Merger, the MSP Partnership is wholly owned by the Company. Activity resulting from the sale of MSP Partnership products after the Merger has been consolidated with Mercks results. For a discussion of the performance of these products in 2010, see Sales above. Merial Limited In 1997, Old Merck and Rhne Poulenc S.A. (now sanofi aventis) combined their animal health businesses to form Merial Limited (Merial), a fully integrated animal health company, which was a stand alone joint venture, 50% owned by each party. Merial provides a comprehensive range of pharmaceuticals and vaccines to enhance the health, well being and performance of a wide range of animal species. On September 17, 2009, Old Merck sold its 50% interest in Merial to sanofi aventis for $4.0 billion in cash. The sale resulted in the recognition of a $3.2 billion pretax gain in 2009 reflected in Other income (expense), net. In connection with the sale of Merial, Old Merck, sanofi aventis and Schering Plough signed a call option agreement, which provided sanofi aventis with an option to require the Company to combine its Intervet/Schering Plough Animal Health business with Merial to form an animal health joint venture that would be owned equally by the Company and sanofi aventis. In March 2010, sanofi aventis exercised its option. As part of the call option agreement, the value of Merial has been fixed at $8.0 billion. The minimum total value to be received by the Company for contributing Intervet/Schering Plough to the combined entity would be $9.25 billion (subject to customary transaction adjustments), consisting of a floor valuation of Intervet/Schering Plough which is fixed at a minimum of $8.5 billion (which was subject to potential upward revision based on a valuation exercise by the two parties) and an additional payment by sanofi aventis of $750 million. Upon completion of the valuation exercise, the parties agreed that a future payment of $250 million would be made by sanofi aventis to the Company in addition to the $750 million payment referred to above. All payments, including adjustments for debt and certain other liabilities, will be made upon closing of the transaction. The formation of this new animal health joint venture with sanofi aventis is subject to execution of final agreements, regulatory review in the United States, Europe and other countries and other customary closing conditions. On March 30, 2010, the parties signed the contribution agreement which obligates them, subject to regulatory approval, to form the joint venture. The Company expects the transaction to close in the third quarter of 2011. The Companys agreement with sanofi aventis provides that if the transaction has not been consummated by March 30, 2011 either party may terminate the proposed joint venture without paying a break up fee or other penalty. Sales of joint venture products were as follows: ($ in millions) 2009(1) 2008 Fipronil products $ 784 $ 1,053 Biological products 525 790 Avermectin products 341 512 Other products 200 288 $ 1,850 $ 2,643 (1) Amounts for 2009 include sales until the September 17, 2009 divestiture date. 74 Sanofi Pasteur MSD In 1994, Old Merck and Pasteur Mrieux Connaught (now Sanofi Pasteur S.A.) established an equally owned joint venture to market vaccines in Europe and to collaborate in the development of combination vaccines for distribution in Europe. Sales of joint venture products were as follows: ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Gardasil $ 350 $ 549 $ 865 Influenza vaccines 220 249 230 Other viral vaccines 93 112 105 RotaTeq 42 42 28 Hepatitis vaccines 25 44 73 Other vaccines 487 593 584 $ 1,217 $ 1,589 $ 1,885 Johnson JohnsonMerck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Company In 1989, Old Merck formed a joint venture with Johnson Johnson to develop and market a broad range of nonprescription medicines for U.S. consumers. This 50% owned venture was subsequently expanded into Canada. Significant joint venture products are Pepcid AC, an over the counter form of the Companys ulcer medication Pepcid, as well as Pepcid Complete, an over the counter product which combines the Companys ulcer medication with antacids. Sales of joint venture products were as follows: ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Gastrointestinal products $ 128 $ 202 $ 211 Other products 1 1 1 $ 129 $ 203 $ 212 Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures were $1.7 billion in 2010, $1.5 billion in 2009 and $1.3 billion in 2008. Expenditures in the United States were $990 million in 2010, $982 million in 2009 and $947 million in 2008. Capital expenditures for 2011 are estimated to be $1.9 billion. Depreciation expense was $2.6 billion in 2010, $1.7 billion in 2009 and $1.4 billion in 2008 of which $1.7 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, applied to locations in the United States. Total depreciation expense in 2010, 2009 and 2008 included accelerated depreciation of $849 million, $348 million and $217 million, respectively, associated with restructuring activities (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Analysis of Liquidity and Capital Resources Mercks strong financial profile enables it to fully fund research and development, focus on external alliances, support in line products and maximize upcoming launches while providing significant cash returns to shareholders. Selected Data ($ in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Working capital $ 13,423 $ 12,791 $ 4,794 Total debt to total liabilities and equity 16.9 % 15.6 % 13.2 % Cash provided by operations to total debt 0.6:1 0.2:1 1.1:1 75 Cash provided by operating activities was $10.8 billion in 2010, $3.4 billion in 2009 and $6.6 billion in 2008. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2010 as compared with 2009 primarily reflects the inclusion of a full year of legacy Schering Plough operations, as well as $4.1 billion of payments in 2009 into the Vioxx settlement funds and a $660 million payment in 2009 made in connection with the previously disclosed settlement with the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA). Cash provided by operating activities in 2008 reflects $2.1 billion received in connection with a partial redemption of Old Mercks partnership interest in AZLP, representing a distribution of Old Mercks accumulated earnings on its investment in AZLP since inception. Cash provided by operating activities in 2008 was also affected by a $675 million payment made in connection with the previously disclosed resolution of investigations of civil claims by federal and state authorities relating to certain past marketing and selling activities and $750 million of payments into the Vioxx settlement funds. Cash provided by operating activities continues to be the Companys primary source of funds to finance operating needs, capital expenditures, treasury stock purchases and dividends paid to shareholders. The global economic downturn and the sovereign debt issues, among other factors, have caused foreign receivables to deteriorate in 2010 in certain European countries. While the Company continues to receive payment on these receivables, these conditions may continue to result in an increase in the average length of time it takes to collect on the accounts receivable outstanding which can impact cash provided by operating activities. Cash used in investing activities was $3.5 billion in 2010 compared with cash provided by investing activities of $3.2 billion in 2009. The change reflects lower proceeds from the sales of securities and other investments and higher purchases of securities and other investments in 2010, as well as a decrease in restricted assets, and proceeds from the disposition of Old Mercks interest in Merial in 2009, partially offset by the use of cash in 2009 to fund the Merger and the proceeds received in 2010 related to AstraZenecas asset option exercise. Cash provided by investing activities was $3.2 billion in 2009 compared with cash used in investing activities of $1.8 billion in 2008. The change was primarily driven by the release of restricted cash primarily due to the release of pledged collateral for certain Vioxx related matters, lower purchases of securities and other investments and proceeds from the 2009 disposition of Old Mercks interest in Merial. These increases in cash used in investing activities were partially offset by the use of cash in 2009 to fund the Merger, as well as by a 2008 distribution from AZLP representing a return of Old Mercks investment in AZLP. Cash used in financing activities was $5.4 billion in 2010 compared with $1.6 billion in 2009 reflecting lower proceeds from the issuance of debt, purchases of treasury stock in 2010, increased dividends paid to stockholders and higher payments on debt, partially offset by an increase in short term borrowings. Cash used in financing activities was $1.6 billion in 2009 compared with $5.5 billion in 2008 reflecting higher proceeds from the issuance of debt, no purchases of treasury stock and lower payments on debt, partially offset by a net decrease in short term borrowings. Dividends paid to stockholders were $4.7 billion in 2010, $3.2 billion in 2009 and $3.3 billion in 2008. At December 31, 2010, the total of worldwide cash and investments was $14.4 billion, including $12.2 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, and $2.2 billion of long term investments. A large portion of the cash and investments are held in foreign jurisdictions. Working capital levels are more than adequate to meet the operating requirements of the Company. As previously disclosed, in October 2006, the CRA issued Old Merck a notice of reassessment containing adjustments related to certain intercompany pricing matters. In February 2009, Old Merck and the CRA negotiated a settlement agreement in regard to these matters. In accordance with the settlement, Old Merck paid an additional tax of approximately $300 million (U.S. dollars) and interest of approximately $360 million (U.S. dollars) with no additional amounts or penalties due on this assessment. The settlement was accounted for in the first quarter of 2009. Old Merck had previously established reserves for these matters. A significant portion of the taxes paid is expected to be creditable for U.S. tax purposes. The resolution of these matters did not have a material effect on Old Mercks financial position or liquidity, other than with respect to the associated collateral as discussed below. In addition, as previously disclosed, the CRA has proposed additional adjustments for 1999 and 2000 relating to other intercompany pricing matters. The adjustments would increase Canadian tax due by approximately $317 million (U.S. dollars) plus approximately $340 million (U.S. dollars) of interest through December 31, 2010. The Company disagrees with the positions taken by the CRA and believes they are without merit. The Company 76 continues to contest the assessments through the CRA appeals process. The CRA is expected to prepare similar adjustments for later years. Management believes that resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on the Companys financial position or liquidity. In connection with the appeals process discussed above related to 1999 and 2000, Old Merck pledged cash and investments as collateral to two financial institutions, one of which provided a guarantee to the CRA and the other to the Quebec Ministry of Revenue representing a portion of the tax and interest assessed. The guarantee to the Quebec Ministry of Revenue expired in the first quarter of 2009. The collateral associated with the guarantee to the CRA totaled approximately $290 million at December 31, 2009 and was included in Deferred income taxes and other current assets and Other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. During 2010, this guarantee was replaced with a guarantee that is not collateralized. Accordingly, the collateral associated with the original guarantee was released and reclassified to cash and investments. The IRS has finalized its examination of Schering Ploughs 2003 2006 tax years. In this audit cycle, the Company reached an agreement with the IRS on an adjustment to income related to intercompany pricing matters. This income adjustment mostly reduced NOLs and other tax credit carryforwards. Additionally, the Company is seeking resolution of one issue raised during this examination through the IRS administrative appeals process. The Companys reserves for uncertain tax positions were adequate to cover all adjustments related to this examination period. The IRS began its examination of the 2007 2009 tax years for the Company in 2010. The IRSs examination of Old Mercks 2002 2005 federal income tax returns is ongoing and is expected to conclude within the next 12 months. The Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010 are as follows: Payments Due by Period ($ in millions) Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter Purchase obligations $ 3,862 $ 2,583 $ 800 $ 404 $ 75 Loans payable and current portion of long term debt 2,400 2,400 Long term debt 14,832 1,811 4,101 8,920 Interest related to debt obligations 9,347 761 1,454 1,120 6,012 Unrecognized tax benefits(1) 903 903 Operating leases 879 247 329 178 125 $ 32,223 $ 6,894 $ 4,394 $ 5,803 $ 15,132 (1) As of December 31, 2010, the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, interest and penalties of $6.2 billion, including $903 million reflected as a current liability. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash outflows of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits beyond one year, a reasonable estimate of the period of cash settlement for years beyond 2011 can not be made. Purchase obligations consist primarily of goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding and include obligations for minimum inventory contracts, research and development and advertising. Amounts reflected for research and development obligations do not include contingent milestone payments. Loans payable and current portion of long term debt also reflects $496 million of long dated notes that are subject to repayment at the option of the holders on an annual basis. Required funding obligations for 2011 relating to the Companys pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material. However, the Company currently anticipates contributing approximately $800 million and $60 million, respectively, to its pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans during 2011. The table above does not reflect the $950 million Vioxx Liability Reserve recorded in connection with the anticipated resolution of the DOJs investigation related to Vioxx. The Companys discussions with the government are ongoing and until they are concluded there can be no certainty about a definitive resolution or the timing of any potential payment. In December 2010, Merck closed an underwritten public offering of $2.0 billion senior unsecured notes consisting of $850 million aggregate principal amount of 2.25% notes due 2016 and $1.15 billion aggregate 77 principal amount of 3.875% notes due 2021. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually. The notes of each series are redeemable in whole or in part at any time, at the Companys option at varying redemption prices. Proceeds from the notes were used for general corporate purposes, including the reduction of short term debt. In December 2009, the Company filed a securities registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the automatic shelf registration process available to well known seasoned issuers which is effective for three years. During 2010, the Company executed a new $2.0 billion, 364 day credit facility and terminated both Old Mercks $1.0 billion incremental facility due to expire in November 2010 and its $1.5 billion revolving credit facility scheduled to mature in April 2013. The Companys $2.0 billion credit facility maturing in August 2012 remains outstanding. Both outstanding facilities provide backup liquidity for the Companys commercial paper borrowing facility and are to be used for general corporate purposes. The Company has not drawn funding from either facility. In connection with the Merger, effective as of November 3, 2009, New Merck executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of Old Merck and Old Merck executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of New Merck (excluding commercial paper), including for payments of principal and interest. These guarantees do not extend to debt issued subsequent to the Merger. The Companys long term credit ratings assigned by Moodys Investors Service and Standard Poors are Aa3 with a stable outlook and AA with a stable outlook, respectively. These ratings continue to allow access to the capital markets and flexibility in obtaining funds on competitive terms. The Company continues to maintain a conservative financial profile. The Company places its cash and investments in instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in its investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. Despite this strong financial profile, certain contingent events, if realized, which are discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys liquidity and capital resources. The Company does not participate in any off balance sheet arrangements involving unconsolidated subsidiaries that provide financing or potentially expose the Company to unrecorded financial obligations. In November 2010 and February 2011, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.38 per share on the Companys common stock for the first and second quarters of 2011, respectively. In November 2009, the Board of Directors approved purchases over time of up to $3.0 billion of Mercks common stock for its treasury. The Company purchased $1.6 billion of its common stock under this program during 2010. No purchases of treasury stock were made in 2009. Old Merck purchased $2.7 billion of treasury stock in 2008 under a previous program approved by Old Mercks Board of Directors in July 2002. Financial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures The Company manages the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on its earnings, cash flows and fair values of assets and liabilities through operational means and through the use of various financial instruments, including derivative instruments. A significant portion of the Companys revenues and earnings in foreign affiliates is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. The objectives and accounting related to the Companys foreign currency risk management program, as well as its interest rate risk management activities are discussed below. Foreign Currency Risk Management A significant portion of the Companys revenues are denominated in foreign currencies. The Company has established revenue hedging and balance sheet risk management programs to protect against volatility of future foreign currency cash flows and changes in fair value caused by volatility in foreign exchange rates. The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the potential for longer term unfavorable changes in foreign exchange to decrease the U.S. dollar value of future cash flows derived from foreign currency 78 denominated sales, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. To achieve this objective, the Company will partially hedge forecasted foreign currency denominated third party and intercompany distributor entity sales that are expected to occur over its planning cycle, typically no more than three years into the future. The Company will layer in hedges over time, increasing the portion of third party and intercompany distributor entity sales hedged as it gets closer to the expected date of the forecasted foreign currency denominated sales, such that it is probable the hedged transaction will occur. The portion of sales hedged is based on assessments of cost benefit profiles that consider natural offsetting exposures, revenue and exchange rate volatilities and correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The hedged anticipated sales are a specified component of a portfolio of similarly denominated foreign currency based sales transactions, each of which responds to the hedged risk in the same manner. The Company manages its anticipated transaction exposure principally with purchased local currency put options, which provide the Company with a right, but not an obligation, to sell foreign currencies in the future at a predetermined price. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, total changes in the options cash flows offset the decline in the expected future U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the options value reduces to zero, but the Company benefits from the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows. The Company also utilizes forward contracts in its revenue hedging program. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the currency of the hedged anticipated sales, the increase in the fair value of the forward contracts offsets the decrease in the expected future U.S. dollar cash flows of the hedged foreign currency sales. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar weakens, the decrease in the fair value of the forward contracts offsets the increase in the value of the anticipated foreign currency cash flows. While a weaker U.S. dollar would result in a net benefit, the market value of Mercks hedges would have declined by an estimated $256 million and $245 million, respectively, from a uniform 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The market value was determined using a foreign exchange option pricing model and holding all factors except exchange rates constant. Because Merck principally uses purchased local currency put options, a uniform weakening of the U.S. dollar would yield the largest overall potential loss in the market value of these options. The sensitivity measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not affect other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near term changes in Mercks major foreign currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The primary objective of the balance sheet risk management program is to mitigate the exposure of foreign currency denominated net monetary assets of foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange that might occur prior to their conversion to U.S. dollars. In these instances, Merck principally utilizes forward exchange contracts, which enable the Company to buy and sell foreign currencies in the future at fixed exchange rates and economically offset the consequences of changes in foreign exchange from the monetary assets. Merck routinely enters into contracts to offset the effects of exchange on exposures denominated in developed country currencies, primarily the euro and Japanese yen. For exposures in developing country currencies, the Company will enter into forward contracts to partially offset the effects of exchange on exposures when it is deemed economical to do so based on a cost benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate and the cost of the hedging instrument. The Company will also minimize the effect of exchange on monetary assets and liabilities by managing operating activities and net asset positions at the local level. When applicable, the Company uses forward contracts to hedge the changes in fair value of certain foreign currency denominated available for sale securities attributable to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These derivative contracts are designated as fair value hedges. A sensitivity analysis to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar on foreign currency denominated derivatives, investments and monetary assets and liabilities indicated that if the U.S. dollar uniformly weakened by 10% against all currency exposures of the Company at December 31, 2010, Income before taxes would have declined by approximately $127 million in 2010. Because the Company was in a net short position relative to its major foreign currencies after consideration of forward contracts, a uniform weakening of the U.S. dollar will yield the largest overall potential net loss in earnings due to exchange. At December 31, 2009, the Company was in a net long position relative to its major foreign currencies after consideration of forward contracts, therefore a uniform 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar would have reduced Income before taxes by $11 million. This measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the 79 U.S. dollar would not affect other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near term changes in Mercks major foreign currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Effective January 1, 2010, the Company was required to remeasure its local currency operations in Venezuela to U.S. dollars as the Venezuelan economy was determined to be hyperinflationary. Effective January 11, 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency from at BsF 2.15 per U.S. dollar to a two tiered official exchange rate at (1) the essentials rate at BsF 2.60 per U.S. dollar and (2) the non essentials rate at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. Throughout 2010, the Company settled transactions at the essentials rate and therefore remeasured monetary assets and liabilities utilizing the essentials rate. In December 2010, the Venezuelan government announced it would eliminate the essentials rate and effective January 1, 2011, all transactions would be settled at the official rate of at BsF 4.30 per U.S. dollar. As a result of this announcement, the Company remeasured its December 31, 2010 monetary assets and liabilities at the new official rate. Foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency debt. The Companys senior unsecured euro denominated notes have been designated as, and are effective as, economic hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation. Accordingly, foreign currency transaction gains or losses on the euro denominated debt instruments are included in foreign currency translation adjustment within other comprehensive income (OCI). In 2010, the Company began using forward exchange contracts to hedge its net investment in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. The forward contracts are designated as hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation. The Company hedges a portion of the net investments in certain of its foreign operations and measures ineffectiveness based upon changes in spot foreign exchange rates. The effective portion of the unrealized gains or losses on these contracts is recorded in foreign currency translation adjustment within OCI and remains in OCI until either the sale or complete or substantially complete liquidation of the subsidiary. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as investing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Interest Rate Risk Management In addition to the revenue hedging and balance sheet risk management programs, the Company may use interest rate swap contracts on certain investing and borrowing transactions to manage its net exposure to interest rate changes and to reduce its overall cost of borrowing. The Company does not use leveraged swaps and, in general, does not leverage any of its investment activities that would put principal capital at risk. At December 31, 2010, the Company was a party to 13 pay floating, receive fixed interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges of fixed rate notes in which the notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed rate notes. There are two swaps maturing in 2011 with notional amounts of $125 million each that effectively convert the Companys $250 million, 5.125% fixed rate notes due 2011 to floating rate instruments and five swaps maturing in 2015 with notional amounts of $150 million each that effectively convert $750 million of the Companys $1.0 billion, 4.0% fixed rate notes due 2015 to floating rate instruments. In addition, there are six swaps maturing in 2016, two of which have notional amounts of $175 million each, and four of which have notional amounts of $125 million each, that effectively convert the Companys $850 million, 2.25% fixed rate notes due 2016 to floating rate instruments. In February 2011, the Company entered into nine additional pay floating, receive fixed interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges for fixed rate notes in which the notional amounts match the amount of the hedged fixed rate notes. There are four swaps maturing in 2015, two of which have notional amounts of $250 million each, and one of which has a notional amount of $500 million, that effectively convert the Companys $1.0 billion, 4.75% fixed rate notes due 2015 to floating rate instruments, and one swap which has a notional amount of $250 million, that effectively converts the remainder of the Companys $1.0 billion, 4.0% fixed rate notes due in 2015 to floating rate instruments. There are two swaps maturing in 2017, with notional amounts of $600 million and $400 million that effectively convert the $1.0 billion, 6.0% fixed rate notes due in 2017 to floating rate instruments. There are three swaps maturing in 2019, two of which have notional amounts of $500 million each, 80 and one of which has a notional amount of $250 million, that effectively convert the Companys $1.25 billion, 5.0% fixed rate notes due in 2019 to floating rate instruments. The interest rate swap contracts are designated hedges of the fair value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the benchmark London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) swap rate. The fair value changes in the notes attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate are recorded in interest expense and offset by the fair value changes in the swap contracts. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The Companys investment portfolio includes cash equivalents and short term investments, the market values of which are not significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The market value of the Companys medium to long term fixed rate investments is modestly affected by changes in U.S. interest rates. Changes in medium to long term U.S. interest rates have a more significant impact on the market value of the Companys fixed rate borrowings, which generally have longer maturities. A sensitivity analysis to measure potential changes in the market value of Mercks investments, debt and related swap contracts from a change in interest rates indicated that a one percentage point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2010 and 2009 would have positively affected the net aggregate market value of these instruments by $1.0 billion and $990 million, respectively. A one percentage point decrease at December 31, 2010 and 2009 would have negatively affected the net aggregate market value by $1.2 billion in each year. The fair value of Mercks debt was determined using pricing models reflecting one percentage point shifts in the appropriate yield curves. The fair values of Mercks investments were determined using a combination of pricing and duration models. Critical Accounting Policies and Other Matters The Companys consolidated financial statements include certain amounts that are based on managements best estimates and judgments. Estimates are used when accounting for amounts recorded in connection with mergers and acquisitions, including fair value determinations of assets and liabilities primarily IPRD and other intangible assets. Additionally, estimates are used in determining such items as current fair values of goodwill, in process research and development and other intangibles, as well as provisions for sales discounts and returns, depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of inventories, including those produced in preparation for product launches, amounts recorded for contingencies, environmental liabilities and other reserves, pension and other postretirement benefit plan assumptions, share based compensation assumptions, restructuring costs, impairments of long lived assets (including intangible assets and goodwill) and investments, and taxes on income. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Application of the following accounting policies result in accounting estimates having the potential for the most significant impact on the financial statements. Mergers and Acquisitions In a business combination, the acquisition method of accounting requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of the merger or acquisition at their respective fair values with limited exceptions. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies are recognized at fair value if fair value can reasonably be estimated. If the acquisition date fair value of an asset acquired or liability assumed that arises from a contingency cannot be determined, the asset or liability is recognized if probable and reasonably estimable; if these criteria are not met, no asset or liability is recognized. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Accordingly, the Company may be required to value assets at fair value measures that do not reflect the Companys intended use of those assets. Any excess of the purchase price (consideration transferred) over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Transaction costs and costs to restructure the acquired company are expensed as incurred. The operating results of the acquired business are reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements after the date of the merger or acquisition. If the Company determines the assets acquired do not meet the definition of a business under the acquisition method of accounting, the transaction will be accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than a business combination, and therefore, no goodwill will be recorded. The fair value of intangible assets, including acquired IPRD, is based 81 on significant judgments made by management, and accordingly, for significant items, the Company typically obtains assistance from third party valuation specialists. Amounts allocated to acquired IPRD are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite lived intangible assets, subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the projects. Upon successful completion of each project, Merck will make a separate determination as to the then useful life of the asset and begin amortization. The valuations and useful life assumptions are based on information available near the merger or acquisition date and are based on expectations and assumptions that are deemed reasonable by management. The judgments made in determining estimated fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially affect the Companys results of operations. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to currently marketed products and product rights are primarily determined by using an income approach, through which fair value is estimated based on each assets discounted projected net cash flows. The Companys estimates of market participant net cash flows consider historical and projected pricing, margins and expense levels; the performance of competing products where applicable; relevant industry and therapeutic area growth drivers and factors; current and expected trends in technology and product life cycles; the time and investment that will be required to develop products and technologies; the ability to obtain marketing and regulatory approvals; the ability to manufacture and commercialize the products; the extent and timing of potential new product introductions by the Companys competitors; and the life of each assets underlying patent, if any. The net cash flows are then probability adjusted where appropriate to consider the uncertainties associated with the underlying assumptions, as well as the risk profile of the net cash flows utilized in the valuation. The probability adjusted future net cash flows of each product are then discounted to present value utilizing an appropriate discount rate. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to IPRD are determined using an income approach, through which fair value is estimated based on each assets probability adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the different stages of development of each product and the associated probability of successful completion. The net cash flows are then discounted to present value using an appropriate discount rate. Revenue Recognition Revenues from sales of products are recognized at the time of delivery when title and risk of loss passes to the customer. Recognition of revenue also requires reasonable assurance of collection of sales proceeds and completion of all performance obligations. Domestically, sales discounts are issued to customers as direct discounts at the point of sale or indirectly through an intermediary wholesaler, known as chargebacks, or indirectly in the form of rebates. Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of return under certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for sales discounts and returns, which are established at the time of sale. The provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts covers chargebacks and rebates. Chargebacks are discounts that occur when a contracted customer purchases directly through an intermediary wholesaler. The contracted customer generally purchases product at its contracted price plus a mark up from the wholesaler. The wholesaler, in turn, charges the Company back for the difference between the price initially paid by the wholesaler and the contract price paid to the wholesaler by the customer. The provision for chargebacks is based on expected sell through levels by the Companys wholesale customers to contracted customers, as well as estimated wholesaler inventory levels. Rebates are amounts owed based upon definitive contractual agreements or legal requirements with private sector and public sector (Medicaid and Medicare Part D) benefit providers, after the final dispensing of the product by a pharmacy to a benefit plan participant. The provision is based on expected payments, which are driven by patient usage and contract performance by the benefit provider customers. The Company uses historical customer segment mix, adjusted for other known events, in order to estimate the expected provision. Amounts accrued for aggregate indirect customer discounts are evaluated on a quarterly basis through comparison of information provided by the wholesalers, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other customers to the amounts accrued. Adjustments are recorded when trends or significant events indicate that a change in the estimated provision is appropriate. The Company continually monitors its provision for aggregate indirect customer discounts. There were no material adjustments to estimates associated with the aggregate indirect customer discount provision in 2010, 2009 or 2008. 82 Summarized information about changes in the aggregate indirect customer discount accrual is as follows: ($ in millions) 2010 2009 Balance January 1 $ 1,373 $ 616 Current provision 4,702 2,542 Schering Plough accrual assumed in the Merger 584 Adjustments to prior years (9 ) (22 ) Payments (4,759 ) (2,347 ) Balance December 31 $ 1,307 $ 1,373 Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct reduction to accounts receivable and accruals for rebates as current liabilities. The accrued balances relative to these provisions included in Accounts receivable and Accrued and other current liabilities were $117 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010 and $115 million and $1.3 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. The Company maintains a returns policy that allows its U.S. pharmaceutical customers to return product within a specified period prior to and subsequent to the expiration date (generally, three to six months before and twelve months after product expiration). The estimate of the provision for returns is based upon historical experience with actual returns. Additionally, the Company considers factors such as levels of inventory in the distribution channel, product dating and expiration period, whether products have been discontinued, entrance in the market of additional generic competition, changes in formularies or launch of over the counter products, among others. The product returns provision for U.S. pharmaceutical sales was approximately 1.0% of net sales in 2010 and 2009 and was not significant in 2008. Through its distribution programs with U.S. wholesalers, the Company encourages wholesalers to align purchases with underlying demand and maintain inventories below specified levels. The terms of the programs allow the wholesalers to earn fees upon providing visibility into their inventory levels as well as by achieving certain performance parameters, such as, inventory management, customer service levels, reducing shortage claims and reducing product returns. Information provided through the wholesaler distribution programs includes items such as sales trends, inventory on hand, on order quantity and product returns. Wholesalers generally provide only the above mentioned data to the Company, as there is no regulatory requirement to report lot level information to manufacturers, which is the level of information needed to determine the remaining shelf life and original sale date of inventory. Given current wholesaler inventory levels, which are generally less than a month, the Company believes that collection of order lot information across all wholesale customers would have limited use in estimating sales discounts and returns. Inventories Produced in Preparation for Product Launches The Company capitalizes inventories produced in preparation for product launches sufficient to support estimated initial market demand. Typically, capitalization of such inventory does not begin until the related product candidates are in Phase III clinical trials and are considered to have a high probability of regulatory approval. The Company monitors the status of each respective product within the regulatory approval process; however, the Company generally does not disclose specific timing for regulatory approval. If the Company is aware of any specific risks or contingencies other than the normal regulatory approval process or if there are any specific issues identified during the research process relating to safety, efficacy, manufacturing, marketing or labeling, the related inventory would generally not be capitalized. Expiry dates of the inventory are affected by the stage of completion. The Company manages the levels of inventory at each stage to optimize the shelf life of the inventory in relation to anticipated market demand in order to avoid product expiry issues. For inventories that are capitalized, anticipated future sales and shelf lives support the realization of the inventory value as the inventory shelf life is sufficient to meet initial product launch requirements. Inventories produced in preparation for product launches capitalized at December 31, 2010 were $197 million and at December 31, 2009 were $87 million. Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business, including product liability, intellectual property and commercial litigation, as well as additional matters 83 such as antitrust actions. (See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.) The Company records accruals for contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These accruals are adjusted periodically as assessments change or additional information becomes available. For product liability claims, a portion of the overall accrual is actuarially determined and considers such factors as past experience, number of claims reported and estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Individually significant contingent losses are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had an aggregate reserve of approximately $110 million (the Vioxx Legal Defense Costs Reserve) solely for future legal defense costs related to (i) the Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits, (ii) the Vioxx Shareholder Lawsuits, (iii) the Vioxx Foreign Lawsuits, and (iv) the Vioxx Investigations (collectively, the Vioxx Litigation) (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements). During 2010, Merck spent approximately $140 million in the aggregate in legal defense costs worldwide, including approximately $31 million in the fourth quarter of 2010, related to the Vioxx Litigation. In addition, during 2010, Merck recorded charges of $106 million of charges, including $46 million in the fourth quarter, solely for its future legal defense costs for the Vioxx Litigation. Consequently, as of December 31, 2010, the aggregate amount of the Vioxx Legal Defense Costs Reserve was approximately $76 million, which is solely for future legal defense costs for the Vioxx Litigation. Some of the significant factors considered in the review of the Vioxx Legal Defense Costs Reserve were as follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company; the development of the Companys legal defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of the Vioxx Litigation, including the Settlement Agreement and the expectation that certain lawsuits will continue to be pending; the number of cases being brought against the Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most current information regarding anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre trial activities and trials in the Vioxx Litigation. The amount of the Vioxx Legal Defense Costs Reserve as of December 31, 2010 represents the Companys best estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs to be incurred in connection with the remaining aspects of the Vioxx Litigation; however, events such as additional trials in the Vioxx Litigation and other events that could arise in the course of the Vioxx Litigation could affect the ultimate amount of defense costs to be incurred by the Company. The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves and may determine to increase the Vioxx Legal Defense Costs Reserve at any time in the future if, based upon the factors set forth, it believes it would be appropriate to do so. There are three U.S. Vioxx Product Liability Lawsuits currently scheduled for trial in 2011. The Company cannot predict the timing of any other trials related to the Vioxx Litigation. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the Vioxx Lawsuits and will vigorously defend against them. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where there are many claimants and the claimants seek indeterminate damages, the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to the Vioxx Lawsuits not included in the Settlement Program. Other than the Vioxx Liability Reserve established with respect to the Department of Justice (DOJ) investigation noted below, the Company has not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the Vioxx Lawsuits or the Vioxx Investigations. Unfavorable outcomes in the Vioxx Litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, liquidity and results of operations. In addition to the Vioxx Legal Defense Costs Reserve, in 2010, the Company established a $950 million Vioxx Liability Reserve in connection with the anticipated resolution of the DOJs investigation related to Vioxx. The Companys discussions with the government are ongoing. Until they are concluded, there can be no certainty about a definitive resolution. The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents. When a legitimate claim for contribution is asserted, a liability is initially accrued based upon the estimated transaction costs to manage the site. Accruals are adjusted as site investigations, feasibility studies and related cost assessments of remedial techniques are completed, and as the extent to which other potentially responsible parties who may be jointly and severally liable can be expected to contribute is determined. 84 The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites and takes an active role in identifying and providing for these costs. In the past, Old Merck performed a worldwide survey to assess all sites for potential contamination resulting from past industrial activities. Where assessment indicated that physical investigation was warranted, such investigation was performed, providing a better evaluation of the need for remedial action. Where such need was identified, remedial action was then initiated. As definitive information became available during the course of investigations and or remedial efforts at each site, estimates were refined and accruals were established or adjusted accordingly. These estimates and related accruals continue to be refined annually. A similar process is being followed for legacy Schering Plough sites. The Company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $16 million in 2010, and are estimated at $81 million for the years 2011 through 2015. In managements opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $185 million and $162 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not consider potential recoveries from other parties and will be paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next 15 years. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed $150 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for any year. Share Based Compensation The Company expenses all share based payment awards to employees, including grants of stock options, over the requisite service period based on the grant date fair value of the awards. The Company determines the fair value of certain share based awards using the Black Scholes option pricing model which uses both historical and current market data to estimate the fair value. This method incorporates various assumptions such as the risk free interest rate, expected volatility, expected dividend yield and expected life of the options. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans Net pension and other postretirement benefit cost totaled $696 million in 2010, $511 million in 2009 and $377 million in 2008. The higher costs in 2010 and 2009 as compared with 2008 are primarily due to incremental costs associated with the Merger. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan information for financial reporting purposes is calculated using actuarial assumptions including a discount rate for plan benefit obligations and an expected rate of return on plan assets. The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. For both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans, the discount rate is evaluated on measurement dates and modified to reflect the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high quality fixed income debt instruments that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligation as they come due. At December 31, 2010, the discount rates for the Companys U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans ranged from 4.00% to 5.60% compared with a range of 4.60% to 6.00% at December 31, 2009. The expected rate of return for both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans represents the average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits included in the benefit obligation are to be paid. In developing the expected rate of return, the Company considers long term compound annualized returns of historical market data as well as actual returns on the Companys plan assets. Using this reference information, the Company develops forward looking return expectations for each asset category and a weighted average expected long term rate of return for a target portfolio allocated across these investment categories. The expected portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active management as appropriate. As a result of this analysis, for 2011, the Companys expected rate of return will range from 5.25% to 8.75% compared to a range of 8.00% to 8.75% in 2010 for its U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The Company has established investment guidelines for its U.S. pension and other postretirement plans to create an asset allocation that is expected to deliver a rate of return sufficient to meet the long term obligation of 85 each plan, given an acceptable level of risk. The target investment portfolio of the Companys U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans is allocated 45% to 60% in U.S. equities, 20% to 30% in international equities, 15% to 25% in fixed income investments, and up to 8% in cash and other investments. The portfolios equity weighting is consistent with the long term nature of the plans benefit obligations. The expected annual standard deviation of returns of the target portfolio, which approximates 13%, reflects both the equity allocation and the diversification benefits among the asset classes in which the portfolio invests. For non U.S. pension plans, the targeted investment portfolio varies based on the duration of pension liabilities and local government rules and regulations. Although a significant percentage of plan assets are invested in U.S. equities, concentration risk is mitigated through the use of strategies that are diversified within management guidelines. Actuarial assumptions are based upon managements best estimates and judgment. A reasonably possible change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $79 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on its net pension and postretirement benefit cost. A reasonably possible change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the expected rate of return assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $33 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on its net pension and postretirement benefit cost. Required funding obligations for 2011 relating to the Companys pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material. The preceding hypothetical changes in the discount rate and expected rate of return assumptions would not impact the Companys funding requirements. Net loss amounts, which reflect experience differentials primarily relating to differences between expected and actual returns on plan assets as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recorded as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income. Expected returns for pension plans are based on a calculated market related value of assets. Under this methodology, asset gains/losses resulting from actual returns that differ from the Companys expected returns are recognized in the market related value of assets ratably over a five year period. Also, net loss amounts in Accumulated other comprehensive income in excess of certain thresholds are amortized into net pension and other postretirement benefit cost over the average remaining service life of employees. Amortization of net losses for the Companys U.S. plans at December 31, 2010 is expected to increase net pension and other postretirement benefit cost by approximately $3 million annually from 2011 through 2015. Restructuring Costs Restructuring costs have been recorded in connection with restructuring programs designed to reduce the cost structure, increase efficiency and enhance competitiveness. As a result, the Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its future plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs to be incurred when the restructuring actions take place. When accruing these costs, the Company will recognize the amount within a range of costs that is the best estimate within the range. When no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount, the Company recognizes the minimum amount within the range. In connection with these actions, management also assesses the recoverability of long lived assets employed in the business. In certain instances, asset lives have been shortened based on changes in the expected useful lives of the affected assets. Severance and other related costs are reflected within Restructuring costs. Asset related charges are reflected within Materials and production costs, Marketing and administrative expenses and Research and development expenses depending upon the nature of the asset. Impairments of Long Lived Assets The Company assesses changes in economic, regulatory and legal conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows in evaluating the value of the Companys property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company periodically evaluates whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of its long lived assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows of these assets, or appropriate asset groupings, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If the asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the assets fair value and its carrying value. If quoted market prices are not available, the Company will estimate fair value using a discounted value of estimated future cash flows approach. 86 The Company tests its goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist, using a fair value based test. Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets of businesses purchased and is assigned to reporting units. Other acquired intangibles (excluding IPRD) are recorded at fair value and amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. When events or circumstances warrant a review, the Company will assess recoverability from future operations using pretax undiscounted cash flows derived from the lowest appropriate asset groupings. Impairments are recognized in operating results to the extent that the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, which is determined based on the net present value of estimated cash flows. The Company tests its indefinite lived intangibles, including IPRD, for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist, through a one step test that compares the fair value of the indefinite lived intangible asset with the assets carrying value. For impairment testing purposes, the Company may combine separately recorded indefinite lived intangible assets into one unit of account based on the relevant facts and circumstances. Generally, the Company will combine indefinite lived intangible assets for testing purposes if they operate as a single asset and are essentially inseparable. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized within the Companys operating results. Impairments of Investments The Company reviews its investments for impairments based on the determination of whether the decline in market value of the investment below the carrying value is other than temporary. The Company considers available evidence in evaluating potential impairments of its investments, including the duration and extent to which fair value is less than cost, and for equity securities, the Companys ability and intent to hold the investments. For a debt security, an other than temporary impairment has occurred if the Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. If the Company does not intend to sell the impaired debt security, and it is not more likely than not it will be required to sell the debt security before the recovery of its amortized cost basis, the amount of the other than temporary impairment recognized in earnings is limited to the portion attributed to credit loss. The remaining portion of the other than temporary impairment related to other factors is recognized in OCI. Taxes on Income The Companys effective tax rate is based on pretax income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. An estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to the Companys quarterly operating results. In the event that there is a significant unusual or one time item recognized, or expected to be recognized, in the Companys quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item would be separately calculated and recorded at the same time as the unusual or one time item. The Company considers the resolution of prior year tax matters to be such items. Significant judgment is required in determining the Companys tax provision and in evaluating its tax positions. The recognition and measurement of a tax position is based on managements best judgment given the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. The Company evaluates tax positions to determine whether the benefits of tax positions are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit based on the technical merits of the tax position. For tax positions that are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company recognizes the largest amount of the benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement in the financial statements. For tax positions that are not more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company does not recognize any portion of the benefit in the financial statements. If the more likely than not threshold is not met in the period for which a tax position is taken, the Company may subsequently recognize the benefit of that tax position if the tax matter is effectively settled, the statute of limitations expires, or if the more likely than not threshold is met in a subsequent period. (See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.) Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. Timing differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the tax return in future years for which the Company has already recorded the tax benefit in the financial statements. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial statements for which payment has been deferred or expense for which the Company has already taken a deduction 87 on the tax return, but has not yet recognized as expense in the financial statements. At December 31, 2010, foreign earnings of $40.4 billion have been retained indefinitely by subsidiary companies for reinvestment, therefore no provision has been made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In October 2009, the FASB issued new guidance for revenue recognition with multiple deliverables, which is effective for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, although early adoption is permitted. This guidance eliminates the residual method under the current guidance and replaces it with the relative selling price method when allocating revenue in a multiple deliverable arrangement. The selling price for each deliverable shall be determined using vendor specific objective evidence of selling price, if it exists, otherwise third party evidence of selling price shall be used. If neither exists for a deliverable, the vendor shall use its best estimate of the selling price for that deliverable. After adoption, this guidance will also require expanded qualitative and quantitative disclosures. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adoption on its financial position and results of operations. In January 2010, the FASB amended the existing disclosure guidance on fair value measurements, which is effective January 1, 2010, except for disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, which is effective January 1, 2011. Among other things, the updated guidance requires additional disclosure for significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 measurements and requires certain Level 3 disclosures on a gross basis. Additionally, the updates amend existing guidance to require a greater level of disaggregated information and more robust disclosures about valuation techniques and inputs to fair value measurements. Since the amended guidance requires only additional disclosures, the adoption of the provisions effective January 1, 2011 will not affect the Companys financial position or results of operations. Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results This report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company may contain so called forward looking statements, all of which are based on managements current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. One can identify these forward looking statements by their use of words such as anticipates, expects, plans, will, estimates, forecasts, projects and other words of similar meaning. One can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to address the Companys growth strategy, financial results, product development, product approvals, product potential and development programs. One must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the Companys forward looking statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. No forward looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. The Company does not assume the obligation to update any forward looking statement. One should carefully evaluate such statements in light of factors, including risk factors, described in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, especially on Forms 10 K, 10 Q and 8 K. In Item 1A. Risk Factors of this annual report on Form 10 K the Company discusses in more detail various important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historic results. The Company notes these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. One should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the discussion under Financial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 88 
 
