Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of Part II of this Report. 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Net sales $ 2,505 $ 2,271 $ 2,148 $ 2,201 $ 2,039 Net income 457 384 347 342 311 Per share: Net income Basic 3.78 3.17 2.84 2.70 2.38 Net income Diluted 3.72 3.12 2.80 2.65 2.34 Dividends 0.72 0.64 0.58 0.52 0.46 Cash dividends 86 78 71 66 60 Total assets 3,281 3,027 2,714 2,557 2,629 Long term debt 300 300 100 200 207 Pension obligations Long term 93 64 51 53 20 Post retirement medical benefit plans 50 46 43 40 37 21 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Managements Discussion And Analysis ($ In Millions, Except Per Share Data) The following should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes. Overview The Company is a leading Life Science and High Technology company. The Companys biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostic and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over 1.3 million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma Aldrich operates in 40 countries and has 8,300 employees providing customer focused service worldwide. The Company has four business units featuring the Research units of Essentials, Specialties and Biotech and the Fine Chemicals unit, SAFC. The units are closely interrelated in their activities and share services such as order entry, billing, technical support, the e commerce infrastructure, including the Companys website, purchasing and inventory control and share production and distribution facilities. Additionally, these units are supported by centralized functional areas such as finance, human resources, quality, safety and compliance and information technology. Research Essentials, representing 19 percent of sales for 2011, provides customized, innovative solutions for our value conscious buyers. Research Specialties, representing 37 percent of sales for 2011, facilitates accelerated research by lab scientists through information and innovation in services and new products. Research Biotech, representing 15 percent of sales for 2011, provides innovative first to market products and technologies for the Life Science researcher. SAFC, representing 29 percent of sales for 2011, supports the manufacturing needs of commercial project managers through rapid delivery of custom products and services. The Company has a broad customer base of commercial laboratories, pharmaceutical companies, industrial companies, universities, diagnostics companies, biotechnology companies, electronics companies, hospitals, governmental institutions and non profit organizations located in the United States and internationally. The Company would not be significantly impacted by the loss of any one customer. However, economic conditions and government research funding in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere do impact demand from our customers. Highlights of our consolidated results for the year ended December 31, 2011, are as follows: Sales were $2,505, an increase of 10.3 percent compared to the same period last year. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and acquisitions completed in 2010 and 2011, which increased sales by 3.7 percent and 1.7 percent, respectively, sales increased organically by 4.9 percent year over year. Gross profit margin was 52.9 percent, up from 52.7 percent in 2010. Operating income margin was 25.8 percent, an increase of 150 basis points from 24.3 percent in 2010, due primarily to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, higher selling prices and volume and mix. Diluted income per share was $3.72, compared to $3.12, a 19.2 percent increase compared to last year. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $495, a decrease of $28 from last year. Total debt of $521 at December 31, 2011 declined $18 since December 31, 2010. 22 Table of Contents Non GAAP Financial Measures The Company supplements its disclosures made in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) with certain non GAAP financial measures. The Company does not, and does not suggest investors should, consider such non GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, U.S. GAAP financial information. These non GAAP measures may not be consistent with the presentation by similar companies in the Companys industry. Whenever the Company uses such non GAAP measures, it provides a reconciliation of such measures to the most closely applicable GAAP measure. With over 60 percent of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, management uses currency adjusted growth, and believes it is useful to investors, to judge the Companys local currency performance. Organic sales growth data presented herein excludes currency impacts, and where indicated, acquisition impacts. The Company calculates the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates by multiplying current period activity by the difference between current period exchange rates and prior period exchange rates, the result is the defined impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates or changes in FX. While we are able to report currency impacts after the fact, we are unable to estimate changes that may occur in 2012 to applicable exchange rates. Any significant changes in currency exchange rates would likely have a significant impact on our reported growth rates due to the volume of our sales denominated in foreign currencies. Management also uses free cash flow, a non GAAP measure, to judge its performance and ability to pursue opportunities that enhance shareholder value. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes this non GAAP information is useful to investors as well. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the years presented. Actual results could differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The following accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risks and uncertainties. Managements estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. The Company regularly reviews inventories on hand and records a provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory, inventory not meeting quality standards and inventory subject to expiration. The provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory is based on current estimates of future product demand, market conditions and related management judgment. Any significant unanticipated changes in future product demand or market conditions that vary from current expectations could have an impact on the value of inventories. Long Lived Assets. Long lived assets, including intangibles with definite lives, are amortized over their expected useful lives. Goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives are not amortized against earnings. Goodwill is assessed annually for impairment. All long lived assets are assessed whenever events and changes in business conditions indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. If impairment is indicated, the asset value is written down to its fair market value. Any significant unanticipated changes in business or market conditions that vary from current expectations could have an impact on the fair value of these assets and a potential associated impairment. The Company was not at risk of failing the impairment test as of December 31, 2011. Pension and Other Post Retirement Benefits. The determination of the obligation and expense for pension and other post retirement benefits is dependent on the Companys selection of certain assumptions used by actuaries to calculate such amounts. Those assumptions are described in Note 14 Pension and Other Post Retirement 23 Table of Contents Benefit Plans to the Companys consolidated financial statements in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Managements Discussion And Analysis ($ In Millions, Except Per Share Data) The following should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes. Overview The Company is a leading Life Science and High Technology company. The Companys biochemical and organic chemical products and kits are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostic and other high technology manufacturing. We have customers in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and in industry. Over 1.3 million scientists and technologists use our products. Sigma Aldrich operates in 40 countries and has 8,300 employees providing customer focused service worldwide. The Company has four business units featuring the Research units of Essentials, Specialties and Biotech and the Fine Chemicals unit, SAFC. The units are closely interrelated in their activities and share services such as order entry, billing, technical support, the e commerce infrastructure, including the Companys website, purchasing and inventory control and share production and distribution facilities. Additionally, these units are supported by centralized functional areas such as finance, human resources, quality, safety and compliance and information technology. Research Essentials, representing 19 percent of sales for 2011, provides customized, innovative solutions for our value conscious buyers. Research Specialties, representing 37 percent of sales for 2011, facilitates accelerated research by lab scientists through information and innovation in services and new products. Research Biotech, representing 15 percent of sales for 2011, provides innovative first to market products and technologies for the Life Science researcher. SAFC, representing 29 percent of sales for 2011, supports the manufacturing needs of commercial project managers through rapid delivery of custom products and services. The Company has a broad customer base of commercial laboratories, pharmaceutical companies, industrial companies, universities, diagnostics companies, biotechnology companies, electronics companies, hospitals, governmental institutions and non profit organizations located in the United States and internationally. The Company would not be significantly impacted by the loss of any one customer. However, economic conditions and government research funding in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere do impact demand from our customers. Highlights of our consolidated results for the year ended December 31, 2011, are as follows: Sales were $2,505, an increase of 10.3 percent compared to the same period last year. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and acquisitions completed in 2010 and 2011, which increased sales by 3.7 percent and 1.7 percent, respectively, sales increased organically by 4.9 percent year over year. Gross profit margin was 52.9 percent, up from 52.7 percent in 2010. Operating income margin was 25.8 percent, an increase of 150 basis points from 24.3 percent in 2010, due primarily to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, higher selling prices and volume and mix. Diluted income per share was $3.72, compared to $3.12, a 19.2 percent increase compared to last year. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $495, a decrease of $28 from last year. Total debt of $521 at December 31, 2011 declined $18 since December 31, 2010. 22 Table of Contents Non GAAP Financial Measures The Company supplements its disclosures made in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) with certain non GAAP financial measures. The Company does not, and does not suggest investors should, consider such non GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, U.S. GAAP financial information. These non GAAP measures may not be consistent with the presentation by similar companies in the Companys industry. Whenever the Company uses such non GAAP measures, it provides a reconciliation of such measures to the most closely applicable GAAP measure. With over 60 percent of sales denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, management uses currency adjusted growth, and believes it is useful to investors, to judge the Companys local currency performance. Organic sales growth data presented herein excludes currency impacts, and where indicated, acquisition impacts. The Company calculates the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates by multiplying current period activity by the difference between current period exchange rates and prior period exchange rates, the result is the defined impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates or changes in FX. While we are able to report currency impacts after the fact, we are unable to estimate changes that may occur in 2012 to applicable exchange rates. Any significant changes in currency exchange rates would likely have a significant impact on our reported growth rates due to the volume of our sales denominated in foreign currencies. Management also uses free cash flow, a non GAAP measure, to judge its performance and ability to pursue opportunities that enhance shareholder value. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes this non GAAP information is useful to investors as well. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the years presented. Actual results could differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The following accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risks and uncertainties. Managements estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. The Company regularly reviews inventories on hand and records a provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory, inventory not meeting quality standards and inventory subject to expiration. The provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory is based on current estimates of future product demand, market conditions and related management judgment. Any significant unanticipated changes in future product demand or market conditions that vary from current expectations could have an impact on the value of inventories. Long Lived Assets. Long lived assets, including intangibles with definite lives, are amortized over their expected useful lives. Goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives are not amortized against earnings. Goodwill is assessed annually for impairment. All long lived assets are assessed whenever events and changes in business conditions indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. If impairment is indicated, the asset value is written down to its fair market value. Any significant unanticipated changes in business or market conditions that vary from current expectations could have an impact on the fair value of these assets and a potential associated impairment. The Company was not at risk of failing the impairment test as of December 31, 2011. Pension and Other Post Retirement Benefits. The determination of the obligation and expense for pension and other post retirement benefits is dependent on the Companys selection of certain assumptions used by actuaries to calculate such amounts. Those assumptions are described in Note 14 Pension and Other Post Retirement 23 Table of Contents Benefit Plans to the Companys consolidated financial statements in 
 
