FILE:CTAS/CTAS-8K-20030717162540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

(Nasdaq:CTAS) today reported record revenue for fiscal 2003 of $2.69 billion, an 18 percent increase from fiscal 2002s revenue of $2.27 billion. The company also reported a 6 percent increase in net income of $249 million compared to $234 million last year. Earnings per diluted share of $1.45 increased 7 percent from last year's $1.36 per diluted share. This is Cintas' 34 consecutive year of growth in sales and profits. Cintas is one of only three public companies with such a prolonged track record of increasing sales and profits; the other two are ADP and Wal-Mart.
CINCINNATI, July 15, 2003  Cintas Corporation
th
Scott D.Farmer, Chief Executive Officer of Cintas, stated, "On behalf of my Cintas partners, I am proud to report that our Company achieved another successful year on many fronts. Our sales and profits continued to increase, giving us the ability to extend our services to 13 new cities and build six new, state-of-the-art uniform rental facilities. During the year, we integrated the largest acquisition in the Company's history, Omni Services. In addition, our balance sheet strengthened as we paid down a substantial portion of the debt incurred to buy Omni. Cintas has grown through all economic cycles, even in today's tough environment. We attribute this success to our people, who share a common set of values and beliefsthings like honesty, integrity, competitive urgency and positive discontent. We are always trying to make our Company better."
Mr. Farmer continued, "The sluggish economy has continued to put pressure on our customers' businesses and, as a result, our business has been negatively impacted. Many of our customers have cut the size of their workforce and closed operations altogether. However, Cintas continues to have a great opportunity to grow in North America where our market share is about 9 percent of the total potential market. Our biggest opportunity is to convince companies without uniforms that they need a uniform service. Each year, including fiscal 2003 that just ended, the majority of our new customers are companies who never had a uniform program before. We continue to see opportunities to expand our customer base, leveraging our vast geographic coverage and nationwide sales and distribution network while creating new innovative products and exciting job opportunities for our partners."
Strong Margins / Strong Balance Sheet
Net income margins of 9.3 percent were strong in spite of higher energy and employee benefit costs, and the expected costs of integrating the Omni operations into Cintas. Omni is now fully integrated, giving Cintas the ability to focus on increasing Omni's profit margins to Cintas' historical levels.
The Company's balance sheet is strong and the company has reduced its long-term debt to total capitalization from 33 percent at May 31, 2002, to 25 percent at May 31, 2003. To date, the company has reduced the amount of its commercial paper outstanding by paying down $190 million, or 83%, of the peak level borrowed in early May 2002. Shareholders' equity reached $1.6 billion, up from $1.4 billion last year.
Record Fourth Quarter Results
For the quarter ended May 31, 2003, Cintas reported record revenue of $676 million, an increase of 12 percent over the fourth quarter of last year. The company noted that there was one less workday in this year's fourth quarter versus last year. On a comparable workday basis, total revenue rose 13.7 percent. For the fourth quarter, rental revenue increased organically by 4 percent, on a comparable workday basis, while total revenue grew 3 percent, organically. Strong net income margins were achieved at 9.6 percent of revenues for the fourth quarter.
Outlook
Mr. Farmer commented, "Our customers continue to pare back their employment levels, which reflects the sluggishness they see in their business and the overall economy. The uncertainty about the future direction of the economy results in the following guidance for fiscal 2004. Our forecast is for revenue to be in a range of $2.75 to $2.95 billion compared to fiscal 2003s revenue of $2.69 billion. Our guidance for earnings per share is $1.52 to $1.64 compared to $1.45 for fiscal 2003. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2004 will be approximately $150 million. "
About Cintas
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Cintas Corporation is the leader in the corporate identity uniform industry providing uniforms to a wide variety of industries nationwide. The Company also provides a range of outsourcing services including entrance mats, hygiene supplies, cleanroom services and first aid and safety products and services. Cintas is a publicly held company traded over the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol CTAS, and is a Nasdaq-100 company and component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. The Company has achieved 34 consecutive years of growth in sales and earnings, to date.
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as estimates, anticipates, projects, plans, expects, intends, believes, should and similar expressions and by the context in which they are used. Such statements are based upon current expectations of the Company and speak only as of the date made. These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in this news release. Factors that might cause such a difference include the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs, lower sales volumes, the performance and costs of integration of acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor, costs and possible effects of union organizing activities, outcome of pending environmental matters, the initiation or outcome of litigation, higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of products and the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. Cintas undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect the events or circumstances arising after the date on which they are made.
For additional information, contact:
William C. Gale, Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer--513-573-4211
Karen L. Carnahan, Vice President and Treasurer--513-573-4013
CINTAS CORPORATION SUPPLEMENTAL DATA


