FILE:CTAS/CTAS-8K-20031219172157.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Item 12.    
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
        On December 17, 2003, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended November 30, 2003. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
              Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

(Nasdaq:CTAS) today reported revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2004 of $701 million, a 3 percent increase from the previous year's second quarter revenue of $681 million. Net income of $70 million increased 10 percent from $63 million last year and earnings per share of $.40 increased 8 percent from $.37 last year.
CINCINNATI, December 17, 2003  Cintas Corporation
Scott D.Farmer, Chief Executive Officer, stated, "We are pleased to report solid performance for the second quarter of fiscal 2004. Our rental revenue grew 4.2 percent on an organic basis, up from 2.8 percent in the first quarter. As the U.S. economy shows signs of recovery, we have seen some positive signs in our business as well. Our ability to cross-sell our broad-based product line to many Cintas customers has improved and continues to be a real opportunity for our Company in the future. In addition, our customer retention rate improved slightly during the quarter and pricing continued to firm up. However, at this point in the economic recovery, we see mixed signals. Some customers continue to experience pressures in their business and, as a result, their employment base is not yet growing. In addition, our uniform sales to travel and lodging customers have not shown any measurable signs of strengthening yet. "
Mr. Farmer continued, "We are also pleased with the tremendous progress we have made in improving our operating margins this quarter. The acquisition of Omni Services, now fully integrated into our Company, is contributing nicely to profits. Our ability to leverage our existing infrastructure, combined with our strong leadership position, made that acquisition nicely accretive for our shareholders. In addition, our balance sheet continues to strengthen as our operations gain efficiencies and generate healthy cash flow. These financial resources, combined with our market leadership, management depth and culture, will continue to present opportunities for continued growth. "
Strong Balance Sheet
The Company's balance sheet is strong and the company has reduced its long-term debt to total capitalization from 28 percent at November 30, 2002 to 21 percent at November 30, 2003. Cash and marketable securities reached $196 million, an increase of $107 million, or 120 percent, from November 30, 2002. Shareholders' equity reached $1.8 billion, compared to $1.6 billion last year.
Outlook
Mr. Farmer commented, "We reiterate our guidance for the full fiscal year 2004. Our forecast is for revenue to be in a range of $2.75 to $2.95 billion compared to fiscal 2003s revenue of $2.69 billion. Our guidance for earnings per share is $1.52 to $1.64 compared to $1.45 for fiscal 2003."
About Cintas
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Cintas Corporation provides highly specialized services to businesses of all types throughout North America. Cintas designs, manufactures and implements corporate identity uniform programs, and provides entrance mats, restroom supplies, promotional products and first aid and safety products for over 500,000 businesses. Cintas is a publicly held company traded over the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol CTAS, and is a Nasdaq-100 company and component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. The Company has achieved 34 consecutive years of growth in sales and earnings, to date.
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as estimates, anticipates, projects, plans, expects, intends, believes, should and similar expressions and by the context in which they are used. Such statements are based upon current expectations of the Company and speak only as of the date made. These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in this news release. Factors that might cause such a difference include the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs, lower sales volumes, the performance and costs of integration of acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor, costs and possible effects of union organizing activities, outcome of pending environmental matters, the initiation or outcome of litigation, higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of products and the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. Cintas undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect the events or circumstances arising after the date on which they are made.
For additional information, contact:
William C. Gale, Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer--513-573-4211
Karen L. Carnahan, Vice President and Treasurer--513-573-4013
CINTAS CORPORATION SUPPLEMENTAL DATA


