FILE:CTAS/CTAS-8K-20040322161956.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Item 12.    
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
         On March 15, 2004, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended February 29, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
              Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

(Nasdaq:CTAS) today reported revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2004 of $697 million, a 5 percent increase from the previous year's third quarter revenue of $664 million. Net income of $66.5 million increased 13 percent from $59 million last year and earnings per share of $.39 increased 15 percent from $.34 last year.
CINCINNATI, March 15, 2004  Cintas Corporation
Scott D. Farmer, Chief Executive Officer, stated, "We are pleased to report another solid quarter of performance. Our rental revenue grew 4.6 percent on an organic basis, up from an organic growth rate of 4.2 percent in the second quarter and 2.8 percent in the first quarter of this fiscal year. Other services revenue, which is primarily the sale of uniforms and first aid and safety products and services, rose 6.3 percent during the quarter, but flat on an organic basis compared to the prior year. Total revenue for the company increased 5 percent on a reported basis and 3.7 percent on an organic basis."
Mr. Farmer continued, "The government recently reported weak growth in U.S. employment and we are generally not seeing any clear signs of headcount increases at our existing customers. Cintas' business has historically lagged an economic upturn by several months. We have found that companies increase the number of hours worked before they increase their headcount, and this economic cycle is no different. However, we continue to see positive signs of customers' willingness to order other Cintas products and services including entrance mat services, restroom supply services and first aid and safety services."
Mr. Farmer said, "We are pleased with the tremendous progress we have made in improving our gross margins. Gross margins improved 110 basis points to 42.4 percent of revenue in the third quarter compared to 41.3 percent the prior year. Our acquisition of Omni Services in May 2002 is contributing nicely to profits. And, we recently initiated a Six Sigma effort in our company. Six Sigma is an analytical process that assists companies in improving quality and customer satisfaction while reducing cycle time and operating costs. We are very pleased with our progress in this new endeavor and are optimistic about the improved efficiencies it will bring to our company. Our company, like many others, has experienced increased costs in providing quality healthcare benefits for our partners and other personnel costs such as state and federal unemployment costs and workers compensation benefits. However, on an after-tax basis, our margin improved 60 basis points to 9.5 percent of revenue, which indicates we are managing these cost pressures effectively."
Strong Balance Sheet
The Company's balance sheet is strong and the company has reduced its long-term debt to total capitalization from 27 percent at February 28, 2003 to 21 percent at February 29, 2004. Cash and marketable securities reached $249 million, an increase of $172 million, or 222 percent, from February 28, 2003. Shareholders' equity is $1.8 billion, compared to $1.6 billion last year.
Outlook
Mr. Farmer commented, "We have tightened our guidance for the remainder of fiscal 2004 which is within the guidance we provided at the beginning of this fiscal year. For fiscal 2004, which ends May 31, 2004, our forecast is for revenue to be in a range of $2.78 to $2.82 billion compared to fiscal 2003s revenue of $2.69 billion. Our guidance for earnings per share is $1.55 to $1.59 compared to $1.45 for fiscal 2003."
Recent Developments
Cintas is consistently recognized as a leader in customer service and workplace practices.
In the January edition of magazine, Cintas was named among "America's Best Managed Companies". identified Cintas as a "solid achiever" and "a company that exudes excellence" in management and financial performance.
Forbes
Forbes
In February, magazine named Cintas the number one "Most Admired" company in the diversified outsourcing services sector. The recognition marks the fourth consecutive year Cintas has made overall list and the second time the company has topped the industry list.
Fortune
Fortune's
In December 2003, Cintas was ranked number four among the best employers in Canada according to themagazine. Hundreds of Cintas partners from British Columbia to Quebec participated in the research, conducted by Hewitt Associates in their survey of leading businesses throughout Canada.
Report on Business
"Being named one of America's most admired and best managed companies, and one of the best employers in Canada, speaks volumes about our employee-partners. We consider all of these votes of confidence' very important in measuring our ability to deliver quality products and services, and enhance the long-term value of our company for partners, shareholders and customers," said Scott Farmer.
In February, Cintas announced that Joyce Hergenhan has become a member of the Cintas Board of Directors. Ms. Hergenhan is the recently retired vice president for corporate public relations for General Electric Company and president of the GE Foundation. During her 22-year tenure, Ms. Hergenhan worked closely with then-CEO Jack Welch during GE's transition from a traditional manufacturing company to the world's largest diversified technology and services company. Mr. Farmer added, "We are proud to have Joyce as a member of our board of directors and look forward to the many contributions she will make as a Cintas partner."
About Cintas
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Cintas Corporation provides highly specialized services to businesses of all types throughout North America. Cintas designs, manufactures and implements corporate identity uniform programs, and provides entrance mats, restroom supplies, promotional products and first aid and safety products for over 500,000 businesses. Cintas is a publicly held company traded over the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol CTAS, and is a Nasdaq-100 company and component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. The Company has achieved 34 consecutive years of growth in sales and earnings, to date.
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as estimates, anticipates, projects, plans, expects, intends, believes, should and similar expressions and by the context in which they are used. Such statements are based upon current expectations of the Company and speak only as of the date made. These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in this news release. Factors that might cause such a difference include the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs, lower sales volumes, the performance and costs of integration of acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor, costs and possible effects of union organizing activities, outcome of pending environmental matters, the initiation or outcome of litigation, higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of products and the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. Cintas undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect the events or circumstances arising after the date on which they are made.
For additional information, contact: William C. Gale, Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer--513-573-4211 Karen L. Carnahan, Vice President and Treasurer--513-573-4013
CINTAS CORPORATION SUPPLEMENTAL DATA


