FILE:CTAS/CTAS-8K-20050715163806.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
        On July 14, 2005, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 14, 2005
Cintas Corporation (Nasdaq:CTAS) today reported record revenue for fiscal 2005 of $3.07 billion, a 9 percent increase from last year's $2.81 billion. Net income of $300.5 million increased 10.4 percent from $272.2 million last year and earnings per share of $1.74 increased 10.1 percent from $1.58 last year.
CINCINNATI, July 14, 2005 
Scott D. Farmer, President and Chief Executive Officer, stated "On behalf of our employee-partners, I am pleased to report our 36th consecutive year of growth in sales and profits for Cintas. This accomplishment is a testament to the men and women of Cintas who are constantly striving to maximize the long-term value of Cintas for our shareholders. In addition to achieving this milestone, our profit margins improved as a percentage of revenue, and our balance sheet strengthened, with cash and marketable securities increasing 22 percent while debt balances continued to decline from the prior year. We are pleased with the contributions from all our business divisions as we become a more valuable resource to our customers as "The Service Professionals". Every business in the United States and Canada can use at least one of Cintas' valued services  whether they want to rent or buy uniforms, or hire us to handle their entrance mats, restroom supply services, first aid, safety and fire protection services or document management services."
Record Fourth Quarter Results
Mr. Farmer continued, "Our rental revenue grew 8.0 percent on an organic basis, up from an organic growth rate of 7.5 percent in the third quarter on a comparable workday basis. This is the seventh consecutive quarter of increasing organic growth in rental revenue, the largest segment of our business. Other services revenue, which is primarily the sale of uniforms and first aid and safety products and services, rose 13.4 percent in the quarter, and 5.7 percent organically. Total revenue for the Company increased 9.6 percent, of which 7.5 percent was organic growth."
Mr. Farmer said, "For the quarter, our gross margins were a solid 43.1 percent versus 42.0 percent of revenue in the fourth quarter last year. This was achieved despite higher energy prices. In the quarter, selling, general and administrative costs increased to 26.3 percent from 25.7 percent of revenue in the fourth quarter last year, primarily as a result of higher healthcare benefit costs and increases in sales and marketing programs. Most importantly, our after-tax margins were 10.3 percent of revenue, a healthy increase compared to 9.9 percent last year."
Strong Balance Sheet
The Company's balance sheet continues to strengthen. Debt to total capitalization was 18.3 percent as of May 31, 2005, versus 20.4 percent as of May 31, 2004. Cash and marketable securities climbed to approximately $310 million as of May 31, 2005, compared to $254 million a year ago, or a 22 percent increase. Total shareholders' equity was $2.1 billion as of May 31, 2005.
Mr. Farmer commented, "On May 2, 2005, the Company announced that the Board of Directors authorized a $500 million stock repurchase program at market prices. Through May 31, the Company purchased approximately 1.5 million shares. Subsequent to May 31, the Company purchased an additional 2.4 million shares. The Company has paid an average price of $39.27 per share. Excess cash will continue to be used for acquisitions, new business initiatives, expansion of facilities and share repurchases in order to maximize the long-term value of Cintas for our shareholders and working partners".
Outlook
Mr. Farmer commented, "We expect revenue for fiscal 2006 in the range of $3.35 billion to $3.45 billion, with full year earnings per share (diluted) in the range of $1.95 to $2.05, assuming a continued improvement in the economy. This range includes the impact of the reduction in shares outstanding due to the stock repurchases to date."
Mr. Farmer continued, "We believe our top line growth and bottom line profits will continue to strengthen as U.S. employment strengthens and customers rely on us for one or more of our services. We believe the future looks bright for Cintas. We have a growth mindset and we intend to continue our uninterrupted track record of consecutive growth in sales and profits."
Recognition
As a result of the dedication and commitment of Cintas' employee-partners, the Company received recognition as a financially successful, philanthropic business and good corporate citizen. Fiscal 2005 recognition included the following:
About Cintas
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Cintas Corporation provides highly specialized services to businesses of all types throughout North America. Cintas designs, manufactures and implements corporate identity uniform programs, and provides entrance mats, restroom supplies, promotional products, first aid and safety products, fire protection services and document management services for approximately 700,000 businesses. Cintas is a publicly held company traded over the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol CTAS, and is a Nasdaq-100 company and component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. The Company has achieved 36 consecutive years of growth in sales and earnings, to date.
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as estimates, anticipates, projects, plans, expects, intends, believes, should and similar expressions and by the context in which they are used. Such statements are based upon current expectations of the Company and speak only as of the date made. These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in this news release. Factors that might cause such a difference include the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs, lower sales volumes, the performance and costs of integration of acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor, costs and possible effects of union organizing activities, outcome of pending environmental matters, the cost, results and timely completion of assessment and remediation of internal controls for financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the initiation or outcome of litigation, higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of products and the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. Cintas undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect the events or circumstances arising after the date on which they are made.
For additional information, contact: William C. Gale, Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer--513-573-4211 Karen L. Carnahan, Vice President and Treasurer--513-573-4013
CINTAS CORPORATION SUPPLEMENTAL DATA


