FILE:CTAS/CTAS-8K-20050503092306.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Item 8.01  Other Events
        On May 2, 2005, the Registrant issued a press release announcing a stock repurchase program. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99 hereto.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CINCINNATI, OH, May 2, 2005  Cintas Corporation (Nasdaq: CTAS), today announced that its Board of Directors approved a program under which the Company intends to repurchase up to $500 million of Cintas common stock at market prices. The number of shares to be repurchased and the timing of the purchases will be at the discretion of the Company's management.
Richard T. Farmer, Chairman of Cintas Corporation, stated, "Current market conditions have made repurchase of Cintas common stock an attractive use of available funds. The repurchased shares will be reserved in treasury for general corporate purposes, including reissue in connection with stock option exercises and future acquisitions."
About Cintas Corporation
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Cintas Corporation provides highly specialized services to businesses of all types throughout North America. Cintas designs, manufactures and implements corporate identity uniform programs, and provides entrance mats, restroom supplies, promotional products, first aid and safety products, fire protection services and document management services for approximately 700,000 businesses. Cintas is a publicly held company traded over the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol CTAS, and is a Nasdaq-100 company and component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. The Company has achieved 35 consecutive years of growth in sales and earnings, to date.
Contacts: William C. Gale, Sr., Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Cintas Corporation 513-573-4211 Karen L. Carnahan, Vice President and Treasurer, Cintas Corporation, 513-573-4013


