FILE:CTAS/CTAS-8K-20071221150020.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Item 2.02 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On December 20, 2007, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended November 30, 2007.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits.
 
99           Press release dated December 20, 2007.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
December 20, 2007
 
(Nasdaq:CTAS) today reported revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 of $983.9 million, a 6.6% increase from the previous years second quarter revenue of $923.3 million.  Net income was $82.9 million and earnings per diluted share were $0.53.
CINCINNATI, December 20, 2007 -- Cintas Corporation
 
Scott D. Farmer, President and Chief Executive Officer, stated, We are pleased to announce our second quarter results, which are in line with our expectations.  Our new sales organization continues to gain momentum.  The new business results being achieved under this new organization are meeting our expectations, most notably in our emerging business units.
 
Net income increased 0.4% and earnings per diluted share increased 3.9% as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2007.  These results were impacted by an increase in the Companys effective tax rate, which increased to 38.3% as compared to 37.3% in last years second quarter.  This increase was due to the second quarter impact of FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48),  .  The Company expects its full year fiscal 2008 effective tax rate to be the same as last years effective rate of 37.3%.  Results for the quarter were also impacted by the increased investment the Company has made to its sales organization over the past year.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109
 
Share Buyback
 
Mr. Farmer also announced, We have resumed purchases under our authorized share buyback program.  During our second quarter, we purchased 5.2 million shares at a cost of approximately $191 million.  Since the programs inception, we have bought back 19.4 million shares, which equates to over 11% of our outstanding stock that existed at the programs inception.  We have $228 million in remaining authorization available under the program.
 
Strong Balance Sheet and Cash Flow
 
The Companys balance sheet and cash flow from operations continue to be strong.  As of November 30, 2007, the Companys current assets exceeded current liabilities by over a three to one ratio and debt to total capitalization was 30.6%.
On December 7, 2007, subsequent to the end of the second quarter, the Company issued $250 million of 6.125% Senior Debt.  The proceeds generated from this debt issuance were used to reduce the Companys outstanding balance under its commercial paper program.
Outlook
 
Mr. Farmer stated, Our results through the second quarter continue to be in line with our expectations.  Based on these results and our current outlook for the remainder of our fiscal year, we reiterate our full fiscal year guidance of $3.9 billion to $4.1 billion in revenue and earnings per diluted share of $2.15 to $2.25.  Achieving this guidance would allow us to reach our 39 consecutive year of growth in revenue and earnings.
th
 
About Cintas
 
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Cintas Corporation provides highly specialized services to businesses of all types predominantly in the United States and Canada. Cintas designs, manufactures and implements corporate identity uniform programs, and provides entrance mats, restroom supplies, promotional products, first aid and safety products, fire protection services and document management services for approximately 800,000 businesses. Cintas is a publicly held company traded over the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol CTAS, and is a Nasdaq-100 company and component of the Standard & Poors 500 Index. The Company has achieved 38 consecutive years of growth in sales and earnings, to date.
 
 
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as estimates, anticipates, predicts, projects, plans, expects, intends, target, forecast, believes, seeks, could, should, may and will or the negative versions thereof and similar expressions and by the context in which they are used.  Such statements are based upon current expectations of Cintas and speak only as of the date made.  We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized.  These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in or implied by this news release.  Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs including energy costs, lower sales volumes, loss of customers due to outsourcing trends, the performance and costs of integration of acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor including increased medical costs, costs and possible effects of union organizing activities, failure to comply with government regulations concerning employment discrimination, employee pay and benefits and employee health and safety, uncertainties regarding any existing or newly-discovered expenses and liabilities related to environmental compliance and remediation, the cost, results and ongoing assessment of internal controls for financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the initiation or outcome of litigation, higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of products, the disruption of operations from catastrophic events, changes in federal and state tax laws and the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service.  Cintas undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information or to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which they are made.  You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q, 8K and 10-K reports to the SEC.
 
For additional information, contact:
 
William C. Gale, Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer - 513-573-4211
Michael L. Thompson, Vice President and Treasurer  513-573-4133
 
 


