FILE:CTAS/CTAS-8K-20070928145945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Item 2.02 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On September 27, 2007, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended August 31, 2007.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits.
 
99           Press release dated September 27, 2007.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
September 27, 2007
 
 
(Nasdaq:CTAS) today reported revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 of $969.1 million, a 6.0% increase from the previous years first quarter revenue of $914.2 million.  Net income was $81.1 million and earnings per diluted share were $0.51.
CINCINNATI, September 27, 2007 -- Cintas Corporation
 
Scott D. Farmer, President and Chief Executive Officer, stated, Our results for the first quarter are in line with our expectations.  Our new sales organization is now fully staffed and operational.  We believe that the initial disruption in new business sales caused by the rollout of this new organization is behind us and we are beginning to see an improvement in new business results.  We expect the new sales organization to continue to gain strength and momentum, resulting in improving revenue growth as we progress through the rest of our fiscal year.
 
While net income and earnings per diluted share decreased 4.6% and 3.8%, respectively, as compared to the first quarter of last fiscal year, the results were in line with Company projections.  The Company indicated that the investment in the new sales organization has impacted profitability, as expected.  Mr. Farmer stated, The investment in the new organization has been made in order to enhance future growth opportunities.  As the amount of new business sold improves under this new organization, we expect our selling costs as a percent of revenue to begin to trend back to more traditional levels.
 
International Expansion
 
In addition to their first quarter results, Cintas announced that it has expanded internationally.  Scott Farmer stated, I am very pleased to announce that we have acquired Certo Information Management, a privately-held document shredding and storage business located in the Netherlands.  We are very excited about the opportunity to now expand our services outside of North America.  While the revenue added directly from this acquisition is not material to our operations, our hope and intent is that experience gained from operating this business will provide a platform for further international expansion.
 
Strong Balance Sheet and Cash Flow
 
The Companys balance sheet continues to be strong.  As of August 31, 2007, the Companys current assets exceeded current liabilities by over a four to one ratio and debt to total capitalization was 28.2%.  The Companys cash flow from operations continues to be healthy.
 
As of June 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48),  .  As a result of the implementation of FIN
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109
48, the Company recorded a $14 million decrease to opening retained earnings as of June 1, 2007, and a corresponding tax reserve was established.
New Segment Reporting
Cintas also announced that beginning this quarter it will increase the number of operating segments reported in the Companys financial statements.  Scott Farmer stated, Our Document Management business and our First Aid, Safety and Fire business have grown to a sufficient size and scale that we believe reporting these businesses as separate operating segments is appropriate.  These emerging businesses, which have historically been included in our Other Services operating segment, will now be broken out separately.
As a result of this change, the Company will now report results for five operating segments:  Rental Uniforms and Ancillary Products; Uniform Direct Sales; First Aid, Safety and Fire Protection Services; Document Management Services; and Corporate.
 
Outlook
 
Mr. Farmer stated, Our first quarter results are in line with our expectations for the quarter.  Based on these results and the improvement we are beginning to experience in our new business sales, we reiterate our full fiscal year guidance of $3.9 billion to $4.1 billion in revenue and earnings per diluted share of $2.15 to $2.25.  Achieving this guidance would allow us to reach our 39 consecutive year of growth in revenue and earnings.
th
 
About Cintas
 
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Cintas Corporation provides highly specialized services to businesses of all types predominantly in the United States and Canada. Cintas designs, manufactures and implements corporate identity uniform programs, and provides entrance mats, restroom supplies, promotional products, first aid and safety products, fire protection services and document management services for approximately 800,000 businesses. Cintas is a publicly held company traded over the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol CTAS, and is a Nasdaq-100 company and component of the Standard & Poors 500 Index. The Company has achieved 38 consecutive years of growth in sales and earnings, to date.
 
 
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as estimates, anticipates, predicts, projects, plans, expects, intends, target, forecast, believes, seeks, could, should, may and will or the negative versions thereof and similar expressions and by the context in which they are used.  Such statements are based upon current expectations of Cintas and speak only as of the date made.  We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized.  These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in or implied by this news release.  Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs including energy costs, lower sales volumes, loss of customers due to outsourcing trends, the performance and costs of integration of acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor including increased medical costs, costs and possible effects of union organizing activities, failure to comply with government regulations concerning employment discrimination, employee pay and benefits and employee health and safety, uncertainties regarding any existing or newly-discovered expenses and liabilities related to environmental compliance and remediation, the cost, results and ongoing assessment of internal controls for financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the initiation or outcome of litigation, higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of products, the disruption of operations from catastrophic events, changes in federal and state tax laws and the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service.  Cintas undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information or to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which they are made.  You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q, 8K and 10-K reports to the SEC.
 
For additional information, contact:
 
William C. Gale, Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer - 513-573-4211
 
Michael L. Thompson, Vice President and Treasurer  513-573-4133
 
 
 
CINTAS CORPORATION SUPPLEMENTAL DATA
 
 
 
 
 
RECONCILIATION TO GAAP MEASURES


