FILE:CTAS/CTAS-8K-20090325092938.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
     March 24, 2009
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)              
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election Of Directors; Appointment Of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On March 24, 2009, the Board of Directors of Cintas Corporation (the Company), increased the size of the Board of Directors to 10 members and elected James J. Johnson as a member of the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.    Mr. Johnson will participate in the Companys standard compensation arrangements for non-employee directors, as more particularly described in the Companys 2008 proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  In addition, Mr. Johnson has been appointed to serve, with Ronald W. Tysoe, on a newly-formed special litigation committee of the Board of Directors to investigate allegations in a previously disclosed shareholder lawsuit.
 
From May 1991 until his retirement in June 2008, Mr. Johnson, age 62, served as Chief Legal Officer of Procter & Gamble Co.
 
Mr. Johnson satisfies the categorical independence standards set forth in the Companys Corporate Governance Guidelines and has been determined by the independent directors of the Board of Directors to be an independent director.
 
There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Johnson and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Johnson was elected as a director of the Company.  There are no transactions in which Mr. Johnson has an interest requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 


