FILE:CTAS/CTAS-8K-20090924130512.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On September 23, 2009, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended August 31, 2009.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits.
 
99           Press release dated September 23, 2009.
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
September 23, 2009
Cintas Corporation Announces Fiscal 2010 First Quarter Results
 
CINCINNATI, September 23, 2009 -- Cintas Corporation (Nasdaq:CTAS) today reported results for the
first quarter of its fiscal year 2010.  Revenue for the quarter, which ended August 31, 2009, was $892
million and represents a 1.5% revenue increase as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, which
ended on May 31, 2009.
 
Net income and earnings per diluted share for the quarter were $54 million and $0.35, respectively.
First quarter results included a previously announced legal settlement, net of insurance proceeds.
Without this charge, net income was $66 million and earnings per diluted share were $0.43.
 
Excluding special charges, the Company's net income and earnings per diluted share for the first
quarter ended August 31, 2009 both increased over 13% as compared to the fourth quarter ended May 31,
2009.  The special charges impacting these quarters were the legal settlement charge in the current
quarter and a restructuring, fixed asset impairment and inventory valuation charge in the fourth
quarter of last year.  The improvement in net income and earnings per diluted share was primarily due
to the Company's continued effort to control costs and right size the organization in the current
economic environment.
 
Scott D. Farmer, Chief Executive Officer, stated, "Over the last twelve months, the U.S. economy has
shed employment at levels not experienced since the Great Depression.  These job losses make year over
year comparisons difficult as our customers continued to shed jobs throughout the year.  In order to
give investors better information on trends in our business, we have provided comparisons to the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2009."
 
Mr. Farmer emphasized, "While we gain some solace in the recent moderation of job loss, market
conditions remain difficult and will continue to impact our businesses.  However, we continue to be a
market leader in our businesses, with state-of-the-art technology, extremely efficient operations and
very dedicated employee-partners.  In addition, our balance sheet and cash flow both continue to be
strong, with our total cash and marketable securities increasing to over $350 million and our total
debt to total capitalization ratio improving to 24.5%.  The leadership position in our businesses
combined with this strong financial condition will provide us enhanced opportunities when economic
conditions improve."
 
About Cintas
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Cintas Corporation provides highly specialized services to businesses of
all types throughout North America. Cintas designs, manufactures and implements corporate identity
uniform programs, and provides entrance mats, restroom supplies, promotional products, first aid,
safety, fire protection products and services and document management services for approximately
800,000 businesses. Cintas is a publicly held company traded over the Nasdaq Global Select Market
under the symbol CTAS, and is a Nasdaq-100 company and component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index.
 
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for
forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as
"estimates," "anticipates," "predicts," "projects," "plans," "expects," "intends," "target,"
"forecast," "believes," "seeks," "could," "should," "may" and "will" or the negative versions thereof
and similar words, terms and expressions and by the context in which they are used.  Such statements
are based upon current expectations of Cintas and speak only as of the date made.  You should not
place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement.  We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking
statement will be realized.  These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties, potentially
inaccurate assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set
forth in or implied by this Press Release.  Factors that might cause such a difference include, but
are not limited to, the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs including energy
costs, lower sales volumes, loss of customers due to outsourcing trends, the performance and costs of
integration of acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor including increased medical
costs, costs and possible effects of union organizing activities, failure to comply with government
regulations concerning employment discrimination, employee pay and benefits and employee health and
safety, uncertainties regarding any existing or newly-discovered expenses and liabilities related to
environmental compliance and remediation, the cost, results and ongoing assessment of internal
controls for financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the initiation or outcome
of litigation, investigations or other proceedings, higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of
products, the disruption of operations from catastrophic or extraordinary events, changes in federal
and state tax and labor laws and the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service.  Cintas
undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to any forward-looking statements or to
otherwise update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information or to reflect
events, circumstances or any other unanticipated developments arising after the date on which such
statements are made.  A further list and description of risks, uncertainties and other matters can be
found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2009 and in our reports on Forms
10-Q and 8-K.  The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones we may face. 
Additional risks and uncertainties presently not known to us or that we currently believe to be
immaterial may also harm our business.
 
For additional information, contact:
William C. Gale, Sr. Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer - 513-573-4211
Michael L. Thompson, Vice President and Treasurer - 513-573-4133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CINTAS CORPORATION SUPPLEMENTAL DATA
SUPPLEMENTAL SEGMENT DATA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


