FILE:CTAS/CTAS-8K-20090820164308.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
The parties in Cintas Corporations previously-disclosed litigation, , have reached a mediated settlement in principle (in response to a proposal from a professional third-party mediator).
Paul Veliz, et al. v. Cintas Corporation
 
When the mediated settlement is fully documented and approved by the court, the settlement will resolve all claims now pending or that could have been brought relating to the subject matter of  the cases before the federal courts and the arbitrator.  Cintas expects that the court approval process will take several months.
 
The principal terms of the
settlement provide for an aggregate cash payment of approximately $24 million.  Cintas expects to recognize a one-time charge related to the
settlement of approximately $12 million, net of insurance proceeds and taxes, or $0.08 per share.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to numerous assumptions, risks or uncertainties. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "estimates," "anticipates," "predicts," "projects," "plans," "expects," "intends," "target," "forecast," "believes," "seeks," "could," "should," "may" and "will" or the negative versions thereof and similar expressions and by the context in which they are used. Such statements are based upon current expectations of Cintas and speak only as of the date made. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in or implied by this Current Report. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs including energy costs, lower sales volumes, loss of customers due to outsourcing trends, the effects of credit market volatility and changes in our credit ratings, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange, the performance and costs of integration of acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor including increased medical costs, costs and possible effects of union organizing activities, failure to comply with government regulations concerning employment discrimination, employee pay and benefits and employee health and safety, uncertainties regarding any existing or newly-discovered expenses and liabilities related to environmental compliance and remediation, asset impairment charges, the cost, results and ongoing assessment of internal controls for financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the initiation or outcome of litigation, higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of products, the disruption of operations from catastrophic events, changes in federal and state tax and labor laws and  the reactions of competitors in terms of price. Cintas undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information or to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which they are made.  A further list and description of risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2009 and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties presently not known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also harm our business.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 


