FILE:CTAS/CTAS-8K-20090716161143.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
Check
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 15, 2009, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2009.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.   
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Exhibit 99      Press release dated July 15, 2009.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
July 15, 2009
Cintas Corporation Announces Fiscal 2009 Results
 
CINCINNATI, July 15, 2009 -- Cintas Corporation (Nasdaq:CTAS) today reported revenue for its fiscal
year ended May 31, 2009, of $3.8 billion, a 4 percent decrease from the prior fiscal year. Net income
for the year was $226 million and earnings per diluted share were $1.48.  For the fourth quarter ended
May 31, 2009, revenue was $879 million, a 13 percent decrease from prior year fourth quarter revenue.
Fourth quarter net income was $4 million and earnings per diluted share were $0.03.
The Company announced on May 29, 2009, that, in response to economic conditions, current year results
would include a restructuring, fixed asset impairment and inventory valuation charge.  The $54 million
after-tax charge was recorded in the fourth quarter.  Excluding this charge, earnings per diluted
share were $1.83 for the year and $0.38 for the fourth quarter.
Scott D. Farmer, Chief Executive Officer, stated, "As we mentioned in May, the U.S. economy continues
to lose employment at a rapid rate, directly impacting our customers and prospects.  According to the
US Department of Labor, the largest calendar year job loss on record was over 60 years ago when in
1945 the U.S. economy lost 2.75 million jobs.  Over the last twelve months, the U.S. economy has lost
approximately 5.5 million jobs, or twice that historical high.  During May and June alone, over
800,000 U.S. jobs were lost."
 
Mr. Farmer continued, "The severity of these job losses resulted in the need for us to take
significant cost reduction measures.  We have continued to right-size our workforce and reduced our
operating capacity to reflect current revenue levels.  Over the last year we have also implemented
stringent controls over discretionary spending."
Mr. Farmer emphasized, "While market conditions and related job loss are negatively impacting our
business, when conditions improve and jobs are added, we expect to see improvement in our results.
Cintas is a market leader in its businesses, has the most modern infrastructure, remains profitable,
continues to generate significant cash flow and has a strong balance sheet."
Despite lower net income, free cash flow for Fiscal 2009 increased $11 million over Fiscal 2008.
Using this strong cash flow, the Company was able to pay off all of its outstanding commercial paper
as of May 31, 2009, increase its annual dividend payment to shareholders and increase its total cash
position by over $60 million.  In addition, the Company further strengthened its sound balance sheet,
improving its current ratio to over four to one and improving its total debt to total capitalization
ratio to 25%.
In closing, Mr. Farmer stated, "Our strong financial position and our commitment to continue to
deliver exceptional quality and service to our customers will provide enhanced opportunities when
economic conditions improve."
 
 
About Cintas
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Cintas Corporation provides highly specialized services to businesses of
all types throughout North America. Cintas designs, manufactures and implements corporate identity
uniform programs, and provides entrance mats, restroom supplies,  promotional products, first aid,
safety, fire protection products and services and document management services for approximately
800,000 businesses. Cintas is a publicly held company traded over the Nasdaq Global Select Market
under the symbol CTAS, and is a Nasdaq-100 company and component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index.
 
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for
forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as
"estimates," "anticipates," "predicts," "projects," "plans," "expects," "intends," "target,"
"forecast," "believes," "seeks," "could," "should," "may" and "will" or the negative versions thereof
and similar words, terms and expressions and by the context in which they are used.  Such statements
are based upon current expectations of Cintas and speak only as of the date made.  You should not
place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement.  We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking
statement will be realized.  These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties, potentially
inaccurate assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set
forth in or implied by this Press Release.  Factors that might cause such a difference include, but
are not limited to, the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs including energy
costs, lower sales volumes, loss of customers due to outsourcing trends, the performance and costs of
integration of acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor including increased medical
costs, costs and possible effects of union organizing activities, failure to comply with government
regulations concerning employment discrimination, employee pay and benefits and employee health and
safety, uncertainties regarding any existing or newly-discovered expenses and liabilities related to
environmental compliance and remediation, the cost, results and ongoing assessment of internal
controls for financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the initiation or outcome
of litigation, investigations or other proceedings, higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of
products, the disruption of operations from catastrophic or extraordinary events, changes in federal
and state tax and labor laws and the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service.  Cintas
undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to any forward-looking statements or to
otherwise update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information or to reflect
events, circumstances or any other unanticipated developments arising after the date on which such
statements are made.  A further list and description of risks, uncertainties and other matters can be
found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2008 and in our reports on Forms
10-Q and 8-K.  The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones we may face. 
Additional risks and uncertainties presently not known to us or that we currently believe to be
immaterial may also harm our business.
For additional information, contact:
William C. Gale, Sr. Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer - 513-573-4211
Michael L. Thompson, Vice President and Treasurer - 513-573-4133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


