FILE:CTAS/CTAS-8K-20101001140029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.              Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On September 27, 2010, Cintas Corporation No. 2 ("Cintas No. 2"), a Nevada corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Cintas Corporation (the "Corporation"), entered into a Fourth Amendment Agreement (the "Fourth Amendment") with KeyBank National Association, as agent (the "Agent").  The Fourth Amendment modifies certain terms of the Credit Agreement dated as of May 28, 2004 among Cintas No. 2, as borrower, the Agent, and certain lenders (such Credit Agreement, as amended through and including the Fourth Amendment, is referred to as the "Credit Agreement").  The Corporation and specified wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Corporation guarantee the payment in full of all amounts due from Cintas No. 2 under the Credit Agreement.
 
Pursuant to the terms of the Fourth Amendment, the maturity date of the Credit Agreement has been extended from February 23, 2011 to September 26, 2014.  In addition,  the total revolving commitment of the lenders under the Credit Agreement will be reduced from $600,000,000 to $300,000,000.  Cintas No. 2 also has an option to increase the total revolving commitment by up to $150,000,000 with the consent of the Agent and one or more lenders willing to agree to an increased commitment amount.   There are no loans outstanding under the Credit Agreement, and letters of credit in the face amount of $93,824,000 were outstanding as of September 27, 2010.
 
After giving effect to the Fourth Amendment, the facility fee payable by Cintas No. 2 on the total commitment amount will be increased.  Furthermore, interest on any outstanding loans under the facility will continue to accrue at either the base rate or the LIBOR rate plus a margin but the amount of such margin will increase.  The amount of such facility fee and such margin will continue to be based on the Corporation's senior unsecured long-term credit ratings from Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investor Services.  Based on the Cintas No. 2's current ratings, the facility fee will be 12.50 basis points (0.125%) per annum and the margin will be 112.5 basis points (1.125%) per annum.  Cintas No. 2 will no longer be required to pay a utilization fee for periods when the outstanding amount of the facility exceeds 50% of the committed amount.
 
The Credit Agreement  contains customary covenants, including financial covenants regarding the ratio of the Corporation's net funded indebtedness to total capitalization and the ratio of the Corporation's earnings before interest and taxes to interest expense.  The Credit Agreement also contains customary events of default, subject to materiality thresholds and grace periods.
 
The foregoing description of the Credit Agreement is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Credit Agreement dated as of May 28, 2004, the First Amendment Agreement dated as of February 24, 2006, the Second Amendment Agreement dated as of March 16, 2007, the Third Amendment Agreement dated as of May 31, 2007 and the Fourth Amendment filed as exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4 and 10.5, respectively, to, and incorporated by this reference in, this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 2.03.
                                         
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
The information provided in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
Item 9.01.
                                         
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
This CREDIT AGREEMENT (as the same may from time to time be amended, restated or otherwise modified, this "Agreement") is made effective as of the 28
th
 day of May, 2004, among:
 
(a)
                                 
CINTAS CORPORATION NO. 2, a Nevada corporation ("Borrower");
 
(b)
                                
the lenders listed on hereto and each other Eligible Transferee, as hereinafter defined, that becomes a party hereto pursuant to Section 10.10 hereof (collectively, the "Lenders" and, individually, each a "Lender");
Schedule 1
 
(c)
                                 
KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as joint lead arranger and administrative agent for the Lenders under this Agreement ("Agent");
 
(d)
                                
BANC ONE CAPITAL MARKETS, INC., as joint lead arranger under this Agreement ("Joint Lead Arranger");
 
(e)
                                 
BANK ONE, NA, as syndication agent under this Agreement ("Syndication Agent");
 
(f)
                                   
FIFTH THIRD BANK, as co-documentation agent under this Agreement ("Co-Documentation Agent");
 
(g)
                                
US BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as co-documentation agent under this Agreement ("Co-Documentation Agent"); and
 
(f)
                                   
THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI, LTD.
, as co-documentation agent under this Agreement ("Co-Documentation Agent").
 
WHEREAS, Borrower, Agent and the Lenders desire to contract for the establishment of credits in the aggregate principal amounts hereinafter set forth, to be made available to Borrower upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, it is mutually agreed as follows:
 
Section 1.1.  .  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
 
"Acquisition" shall mean any transaction or series of related transactions for the purpose of or resulting, directly or indirectly, in (a) the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of any Person (other than a Company), or any business or division of any Person (other than a
 
Company), (b) the acquisition of in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the stock (or other equity interest) of any Person (other than a Company), or (c) the acquisition of another Person (other than a Company) by a merger, amalgamation or consolidation or any other combination with such Person.
 
"Additional Commitment" shall mean that term as defined in Section 2.9(b) hereof.
 
"Additional Lender" shall mean an Eligible Transferee that shall become a Lender during the Commitment Increase Period pursuant to Section 2.9(b) hereof.
 
"Additional Lender Assumption Agreement" shall mean an additional lender assumption agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to Agent, wherein an Additional Lender shall become a Lender.
 
"Additional Lender Assumption Effective Date" shall mean that term as defined in Section 2.9(b) hereof.
 
"Advantage" shall mean any payment (whether made voluntarily or involuntarily, by offset of any deposit or other indebtedness or otherwise) received by any Lender in respect of the Obligations, if such payment results in that Lender having less than its pro rata share of the Obligations then outstanding, than was the case immediately before such payment.
 
"Affiliate" shall mean any Person, directly or indirectly, controlling, controlled by or under common control with a Company and "control" (including the correlative meanings, the terms "controlling", "controlled by" and "under common control with") shall mean the power, directly or indirectly, to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Company, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
 
"Agent Fee Letter" shall mean the Agent Fee Letter between Borrower and Agent, dated as of the Closing Date, as the same may from time to time be amended, restated or otherwise modified.
 
"Applicable Facility Fee Rate" shall mean:
 
(a)
                                 
for the period from the Closing Date until the first Margin Adjustment Date after the Closing Date, eight basis points; and
 
(b)
                                
commencing on the first Margin Adjustment Date after the Closing Date and on each Margin Adjustment Date thereafter, the number of basis points set forth in the following matrix, based upon the S&P Rating or the Moody's Rating in effect at such time:
 
provided that, notwithstanding anything above to the contrary, (i) if the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating shall at any time be at different Levels in the above chart, and the difference in Levels is only one Level, then the Applicable Facility Fee Rate shall be based upon the higher of the applicable S&P Rating and Moody's Rating, (ii) if the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating shall at any time be at different Levels in the above chart, and such difference is two Levels or more, then the Applicable Facility Fee Rate shall be based upon the Level immediately below the Level determined based on the higher of the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating, (iii) if only one of the two ratings (S&P Rating or Moody's Rating) shall exist, then the existing rating shall determine the Level of the Applicable Facility Fee Rate, and (iv) if neither the S&P Rating nor the Moody's Rating shall exist, then the Applicable Facility Fee Rate shall be set at Level 5.  Changes to the Applicable Facility Fee Rate shall be immediately effective on each Margin Adjustment Date.  The above matrix does not modify or waive, in any respect, the rights of Agent and the Lenders to charge the Default Rate, or the rights and remedies of Agent and the Lenders pursuant to Articles VII and VIII hereof.
 
"Applicable Margin" shall mean:
 
(a)
                                 
for the period from the Closing Date until the first Margin Adjustment Date after the Closing Date, twenty-seven (27) basis points for Eurodollar Loans; and
 
(b)
                                
commencing on the first Margin Adjustment Date after the Closing Date and on each Margin Adjustment Date thereafter, the number of basis points set forth in the following matrix, based upon the S&P Rating or the Moody's Rating in effect at such time:
 
 
provided that, notwithstanding anything above to the contrary, (i) if the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating shall at any time be at different Levels in the above chart, and the difference in Levels is only one Level, then the Applicable Margin shall be based upon the higher of the applicable S&P Rating and Moody's Rating, (ii) if the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating shall at any time be at different Levels in the above chart, and such difference is two Levels or more, then the Applicable Margin shall be based upon the Level immediately below the Level
determined based on the higher of the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating, (iii) if only one of the two ratings (S&P Rating or Moody's Rating) shall exist, then the existing rating shall determine the Level of the Applicable Margin, and (iv) if neither the S&P Rating nor the Moody's Rating shall exist, then the Applicable Margin shall be set at Level 5.  Changes to the Applicable Margin shall be immediately effective on each Margin Adjustment Date.  The above matrix does not modify or waive, in any respect, the rights of Agent and the Lenders to charge the Default Rate, or the rights and remedies of Agent and the Lenders pursuant to Articles VII and VIII hereof.
 
"Applicable Utilization Fee Rate" shall mean:
 
(a)
                                 
for the period from the Closing Date until the first Margin Adjustment Date after the Closing Date, five basis points; and
 
(b)
                                
commencing on the first Margin Adjustment Date after the Closing Date and on each Margin Adjustment Date thereafter, the number of basis points set forth in the following matrix, based upon the S&P Rating or the Moody's Rating in effect at such time:
 
 
provided that, notwithstanding anything above to the contrary, (i) if the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating shall at any time be at different Levels in the above chart, and the difference in Levels is only one Level, then the Applicable Utilization Fee Rate shall be based upon the higher of the applicable S&P Rating and Moody's Rating, (ii) if the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating shall at any time be at different Levels in the above charts, and such difference is two Levels or more, then the Applicable Utilization Fee Rate shall be based upon the Level immediately below the Level determined based on the higher of the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating, (iii) if only one of the two ratings (S&P Rating or Moody's Rating) shall exist, then the existing rating shall determine the Level of the Applicable Utilization Fee Rate, and (iv) if neither the S&P Rating nor the Moody's Rating shall exist, then the Applicable Utilization Fee Rate shall be set at Level 3.  Changes to the Applicable Utilization Fee Rate shall be immediately effective on each Margin Adjustment Date.  The above matrix does not modify or waive, in any respect, the rights of Agent and the Lenders to charge the Default Rate, or the rights and remedies of Agent and the Lenders pursuant to Articles VII and VIII hereof.
 
"Assignment Agreement" shall mean an Assignment and Acceptance Agreement in the form of the attached .
Exhibit E
 
"Authorized Officer" shall mean a Financial Officer or any other individual authorized by a Financial Officer in writing (with a copy to Agent) to handle certain administrative matters in connection with this Agreement.
"Base Rate" shall mean a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) the Prime Rate or (b) one-half of one percent (.50%) in excess of the Federal Funds Effective Rate.  Any change in the Base Rate shall be effective immediately from and after such change in the Base Rate.
 
"Base Rate Loan" shall mean a Revolving Loan described in Section 2.2(a) hereof on which Borrower shall pay interest at a rate based on the Base Rate.
 
"BOCM Fee Letter" shall mean the BOCM Fee Letter between Borrower and BOCM, dated as of the Closing Date.
 
"Business Day" shall mean any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which national banks are authorized or required to close, and, if the applicable Business Day shall relate to a Eurodollar Loan, a day of the year on which dealings in deposits are carried on in the London interbank Eurodollar market.
 
"Capital Distribution" shall mean a payment made, liability incurred or other consideration given by a Company to any Person that is not a Company, for the purchase, acquisition, redemption, repurchase or retirement of any capital stock or other equity interest of such Company or as a dividend, return of capital or other distribution (other than any stock dividend, stock split or other equity distribution payable only in capital stock or other equity of such Company) in respect of such Company's capital stock or other equity interest.
 
"Capitalization Ratio" shall mean, as determined for the most recently completed fiscal quarter of Parent, on a Consolidated basis and in accordance with GAAP, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Net Funded Indebtedness to (b) Consolidated Total Capitalization.
 
"Capitalized Lease" of a Person shall mean any lease of assets by such Person as lessee that would be capitalized on a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
"Capitalized Lease Obligations" of a Person shall mean the amount of the obligations of such Person under Capitalized Leases that would be shown as a liability on a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
"Cash Equivalents" shall mean (a) securities issued or directly and fully guaranteed or insured by the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof (provided that the full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged in support thereof) having maturities of not more than one year from the date of acquisition; (b) U.S. dollar denominated time deposits, certificates of deposit and bankers' acceptances of any bank whose short-term commercial paper rating from Standard & Poor's is at least A-2, or the equivalent thereof, or from Moody's is at least P-2, or the equivalent thereof (any such bank, an "Approved Depository"); (c) commercial paper issued by any Approved Depository or by the parent company of any Approved Depository and commercial paper issued by, or guaranteed by, any company with a short-term commercial paper rating of at least A-2 or the equivalent thereof by Standard & Poor's or at least P-2 or the equivalent thereof by Moody's; (d) bonds and preferred stock of investment grade companies or issuers including, without limitation, municipal bonds,
 
corporate bonds and treasury bonds; (e) investments in money market funds substantially all the assets of which are comprised of securities of the types described in subparts (a) through (d) above; and (f) investments in money market funds access to which is provided as part of "sweep" accounts maintained with an Approved Depository.
 
"Change in Control" shall mean (a) the acquisition of, or, if earlier, the shareholder or director approval of the acquisition of, ownership or voting control, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, on or after the Closing Date, by any Person (other than members of the Current Holder Group) or group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as then in effect), of shares representing more than thirty percent (30%) of the aggregate ordinary Voting Power represented by the issued and outstanding capital stock of Parent;  (b) the occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors or other governing body of Parent by Persons who were neither (i) nominated by the board of directors or other governing body of Borrower nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated; or (c) the failure of Parent to own one hundred percent (100%), directly or indirectly, of the outstanding common stock of Borrower.
 
"Closing Commitment Amount" shall mean Three Hundred Million Dollars ($300,000,000).
 
"Closing Date" shall mean the effective date of this Agreement as set forth in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
 
"Closing Fee Letter" shall mean the Closing Fee Letter between Borrower and Agent, dated as of the Closing Date.
 
"Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, together with the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
"Commitment" shall mean the obligation hereunder of the Lenders, during the Commitment Period, to make Loans, to issue Letters of Credit and to participate in Swing Loans and Letters of Credit pursuant to the Revolving Credit Commitments, up to the Total Commitment Amount.
 
"Commitment Increase Period" shall mean the period from the Closing Date to the date that is thirty (30) days prior to the last day of the Commitment Period, or such later date as shall be agreed to in writing by Agent.
 
"Commitment Percentage" shall mean, for each Lender, the percentage set forth opposite such Lender's name under the column headed "Commitment Percentage", as listed in hereto.
Schedule 1
 
"Commitment Period" shall mean the period from the Closing Date to May 27, 2009, or such earlier date on which the Commitment shall have been terminated pursuant to Article VIII hereof.
"Companies" shall mean Parent, Borrower and all Subsidiaries of Parent.
 
"Company" shall mean Parent, Borrower or a Subsidiary of Parent.
 
"Compliance Certificate" shall mean a certificate, substantially in the form of the attached .
Exhibit D
 
"Consideration" shall mean, in connection with an Acquisition, the aggregate consideration paid, including cash, securities or notes, the assumption or incurring of liabilities (direct or contingent) valued on a GAAP basis, the payment of fees for a covenant not to compete and any other consideration paid for such Acquisition.
 
"Consolidated" shall mean the resultant consolidation of the financial statements of Parent and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, including principles of consolidation specified by GAAP.
 
"Consolidated EBIT" shall mean, for any period, on a Consolidated basis and in accordance with GAAP, Consolidated Net Earnings for such period plus the aggregate amounts deducted in determining such Consolidated Net Earnings in respect of (a) Consolidated Interest Expense, (b) Consolidated Income Tax Expense, and (c) extraordinary and non-recurring losses and non-cash charges and related tax effects in accordance with GAAP, minus the aggregate amounts added in determining such Consolidated Net Earnings in respect of extraordinary and non-recurring gains and related tax effects in accordance with GAAP.
 
"Consolidated Funded Indebtedness" shall mean, at any date, all Indebtedness (including, but not limited to, current, long-term and Subordinated Indebtedness, if any) of Parent, as determined on a Consolidated basis and in accordance with GAAP.
 
"Consolidated Income Tax Expense" shall mean, for any period, all provisions for taxes based on the gross or net income of Parent (including, without limitation, any additions to such taxes, and any penalties and interest with respect thereto), and all franchise taxes of Parent, as determined on a Consolidated basis and in accordance with GAAP.
 
"Consolidated Interest Expense" shall mean, for any period, the interest expense of Parent for such period, as determined on a Consolidated basis and in accordance with GAAP.
 
"Consolidated Net Earnings" shall mean, for any period, the net income (loss) of Parent for such period, as determined on a Consolidated basis and in accordance with GAAP.
 
"Consolidated Net Funded Indebtedness" shall mean, at any date, (a) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness, minus (b) cash and Cash Equivalents of the Companies, as determined on a Consolidated basis and in accordance with GAAP.
 
"Consolidated Net Worth" shall mean, at any date, the stockholders' equity of Parent, as determined on a Consolidated basis and in accordance with GAAP.
"Consolidated Total Capitalization" shall mean, at any date, as determined on a Consolidated basis and in accordance with GAAP, Consolidated Net Worth plus Consolidated Funded Indebtedness.
 
"Controlled Group" shall mean a Company and each Person required to be aggregated with a Company under Code Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o).
 
"Credit Event" shall mean the making by the Lenders of a Loan, the conversion by the Lenders of a Base Rate Loan to a Eurodollar Loan, the continuation by the Lenders of a Eurodollar Loan after the end of the applicable Interest Period, the making by the Swing Line Lender of a Swing Loan, or the issuance by the Fronting Lender of a Letter of Credit.
 
"Credit Party" shall mean Borrower, Parent and any Subsidiary that is a Guarantor of Payment.
 
"Current Holder Group" shall mean (a) Richard T. Farmer and Joyce E. Farmer and the lineal descendants of Richard T. Farmer, and (b) James J. Gardner and Joan A. Gardner and the lineal descendants of James J. Gardner.
 
"Default" shall mean an event or condition that constitutes, or with the lapse of any applicable grace period or the giving of notice or both would constitute, an Event of Default, and that has not been waived by the Required Lenders in writing.
 
"Default Rate" shall mean (a) with respect to any Loan, a rate per annum equal to two percent (2%) in excess of the rate otherwise applicable thereto, and (b) with respect to any other amount, if no rate is specified or available, a rate per annum equal to two percent (2%) in excess of the Base Rate from time to time in effect.
 
"Derived Eurodollar Rate" shall mean a rate per annum equal to the sum of the Applicable Margin (from time to time in effect) plus the Eurodollar Rate.
 
"Dollar" or the sign $ shall mean lawful money of the United States of America.
 
"Domestic Subsidiary" shall mean a Subsidiary that is not a Foreign Subsidiary.
 
"Dormant Subsidiary" shall mean a Company that (a) is not a Credit Party, (b) has aggregate assets of less than Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000), and (c) has no direct or indirect Subsidiaries with aggregate assets for all such Subsidiaries of more than Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000).
 
"Eligible Transferee" shall mean a commercial bank or financial institution that is not Borrower, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate; provided, however, that (a) in the case of a commercial bank, such bank (i) has a combined capital and surplus of not less than One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000), and (ii) either is organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof or the District of Columbia or is organized under the laws of a country that is a member of the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) or a
political subdivision of such country and is acting through a branch or agency located in the United States, and (b) in the case of any other financial institution, such financial institution is engaged in the making and purchasing of commercial loans in the ordinary course of its business and has a total net worth of not less than One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000) (or its obligations are guaranteed by an entity with such a net worth).
 
"Environmental Laws" shall mean all provisions of law, statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations, permits, licenses, judgments, writs, injunctions, decrees, orders, awards and standards promulgated by the government of the United States of America or by any state or municipality thereof or any foreign jurisdiction, or by any court, agency, instrumentality, regulatory authority or commission of any of the foregoing concerning health, safety and protection of, or regulation of the discharge of substances into, the environment.
 
"ERISA" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated pursuant thereto.
 
"ERISA Event" shall mean (a) the engagement by a Controlled Group member in a non-exempt "prohibited transaction" (as defined under ERISA Section 406 or Code Section 4975); (b) the application by a Controlled Group member for a waiver from the minimum funding requirements of Code Section 412 or ERISA Section 302 or a Controlled Group member is required to provide security under Code Section 401(a)(29) or ERISA Section 307; (c) the occurrence of a Reportable Event with respect to any Pension Plan as to which notice is required to be provided to the PBGC; (d) the withdrawal by a Controlled Group member from a Multiemployer Plan in a "complete withdrawal" or a "partial withdrawal" (as such terms are defined in ERISA Sections 4203 and 4205, respectively); (e) the involvement of, or occurrence or existence of any event or condition that makes likely the involvement of, a Multiemployer Plan in any reorganization under ERISA Section 4241; (f) the failure of an ERISA Plan (and any related trust) that is intended to be qualified under Code Sections 401 and 501 to be so qualified or the failure of any "cash or deferred arrangement" under any such ERISA Plan to meet the requirements of Code Section 401(k); (g) the taking by the PBGC of any steps to terminate a Pension Plan or appoint a trustee to administer a Pension Plan; (h) the commencement or existence of a claim, action, suit, audit or investigation with respect to an ERISA Plan, other than a routine claim for benefits; or (i) any incurrence by or any expectation of the incurrence by a Controlled Group member of any liability for post-retirement benefits under any Welfare Plan, other than as required by ERISA Section 601, or Code Section 4980B.
et.
seq.
 
"ERISA Plan" shall mean an "employee benefit plan" (within the meaning of ERISA Section 3(3)) that a Controlled Group member at any time sponsors, maintains, contributes to, has liability with respect to or has an obligation to contribute to such plan.
 
"Eurocurrency Liabilities" shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
 
"Eurodollar" shall mean a Dollar denominated deposit in a bank or branch outside of the United States.
"Eurodollar Loan" shall mean a Revolving Loan described in Section 2.2(a) hereof that shall be denominated in Dollars and on which Borrower shall pay interest at a rate based upon the Derived Eurodollar Rate.
 
"Eurodollar Rate" shall mean, with respect to a Eurodollar Loan, for any Interest Period, a rate per annum equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (a) the rate of interest, determined by Agent in accordance with its usual procedures (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) as of approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days prior to the beginning of such Interest Period pertaining to such Eurodollar Loan, as listed on British Bankers Association Interest Rate LIBOR 01 or 02 as provided by Reuters (or, if for any reason such rate is unavailable from Reuters, from any other similar company or service that provides rate quotations comparable to those currently provided by Reuters) as the rate in the London interbank market for Dollar deposits in immediately available funds with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period, provided that, in the event that such rate quotation is not available for any reason, then the Eurodollar Rate shall be the average of the per annum rates at which deposits in immediately available funds in Dollars for the relevant Interest Period and in the amount of the Eurodollar Loan to be disbursed or to remain outstanding during such Interest Period, as the case may be, are offered to Agent (or an affiliate of Agent, in Agent's discretion) by at least three prime banks in any Eurodollar market reasonably selected by Agent, determined as of 11:00 A.M. (London time) (or as soon thereafter as practicable), two Business Days prior to the beginning of the relevant Interest Period pertaining to such Eurodollar Loan hereunder; by (b) 1.00 minus the Reserve Percentage.
 
"Event of Default" shall mean an event or condition that shall constitute an event of default as defined in Article VII hereof.
 
"Excluded Taxes" shall mean net income taxes (and franchise taxes imposed in lieu of net income taxes) imposed on Agent or any Lender by the Governmental Authority located in any jurisdiction, as a result of Agent or Lender, as applicable, having been a citizen or resident of the jurisdiction of such taxing authority or being or having been engaged in a trade or business in such jurisdiction (but excluding any connection arising solely from Agent's or any Lender's execution or enforcement of, or performance of, its obligations hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents).
 
"Existing Letter of Credit" shall mean that term as defined in Section 2.2(b)(vii) hereof.
 
"Federal Funds Effective Rate" shall mean, for any day, the rate per annum (rounded upward (if necessary) to the nearest one one-hundredth of one percent (1/100 of 1%)) announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (or any successor) on such day as being the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal funds transactions arranged by federal funds brokers on the previous trading day, as computed and announced by such Federal Reserve Bank (or any successor) in substantially the same manner as such Federal Reserve Bank computes and announces the weighted average it refers to as the "Federal Funds Effective Rate" as of the Closing Date.
"Financial Officer" shall mean any of the following officers: chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller.  Unless otherwise qualified, all references to a Financial Officer in this Agreement shall refer to a Financial Officer of Parent.
 
"Foreign Subsidiary" shall mean a Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction located outside of the United States.
 
"Fronting Lender" shall mean, (a) as to any Letter of Credit transaction hereunder, KeyBank National Association as issuer of the Letter of Credit, or, with the prior consent of Borrower, in the event that KeyBank National Association either shall be unable to issue or shall agree that another Lender may issue a Letter of Credit, such other Lender as shall agree to issue the Letter of Credit in its own name, but on behalf of the Lenders hereunder; or (b) as to any Existing Letter of Credit, Bank One, NA.
 
"GAAP" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in the United States as then in effect, which shall include the official interpretations thereof by the Financial Accounting Standards Board.
 
"Governmental Authority" shall mean any nation or government, any state, province or territory or other political subdivision thereof, any governmental agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other governmental entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative functions of or pertaining to government, any securities exchange and any self-regulatory organization.
 
"Guarantor" shall mean a Person that shall have pledged its credit or property in any manner for the payment or other performance of the indebtedness, contract or other obligation of another and includes (without limitation) any guarantor (whether of payment or of collection), surety, co-maker, endorser or Person that shall have agreed conditionally or otherwise to make any purchase, loan or investment in order thereby to enable another to prevent or correct a default of any kind.
 
"Guarantor of Payment" shall mean Parent and each of the Companies set forth on hereto, that are each executing and delivering a Guaranty of Payment, or any other Person that shall deliver a Guaranty of Payment to Agent subsequent to the Closing Date.
Schedule 2
 
"Guaranty of Payment" shall mean the Parent Guaranty of Payment and each other Guaranty of Payment executed and delivered on or after the Closing Date in connection with this Agreement by the Guarantors of Payment, as the same may from time to time be amended, restated or otherwise modified.
 
"Hedge Agreement" shall mean any (a) hedge agreement, interest rate swap, cap, collar or floor agreement, or other interest rate management device entered into by a Company with any Person, or (b) currency swap agreement, forward currency purchase agreement or similar arrangement or agreement designed to protect against fluctuations in currency exchange rates entered into by a Company with any Person.
"Indebtedness" shall mean, for any Company (excluding in all cases trade payables payable in the ordinary course of business by such Company), without duplication, (a) all obligations to repay borrowed money, direct or indirect, incurred, assumed, or guaranteed, (b) all obligations for the deferred purchase price of capital assets, (c) all obligations under conditional sales or other title retention agreements, (d) all obligations (contingent or otherwise) under any letter of credit or banker's acceptance, (e) all net obligations under any currency swap agreement, interest rate swap, cap, collar or floor agreement or other interest rate management device or any Hedge Agreement, (f) all Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities, (g) all Capitalized Lease Obligations, (h) all obligations of such Company with respect to asset securitization financing programs to the extent required to be capitalized on the books of such Company in accordance with GAAP, (i) all obligations to advance funds to, or to purchase assets, property or services from, any other Person in order to maintain the financial condition of such Person, and (j) any guarantee of any obligation described in subpart (a) through (i) hereof.
 
"Interest Adjustment Date" shall mean the last day of each Interest Period.
 
"Interest Coverage Ratio" shall mean, for the most recently completed four fiscal quarters of Parent, as determined on a Consolidated basis and in accordance with GAAP, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBIT to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense.
 
"Interest Period" shall mean, with respect to Eurodollar Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Loan is made and ending on the last day of such period, as selected by Borrower pursuant to the provisions hereof, and, thereafter (unless such Eurodollar Loan is converted to a Base Rate Loan), each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of such period, as selected by Borrower pursuant to the provisions hereof.  The duration of each Interest Period for a Eurodollar Loan shall be one month, two months, three months or six months, in each case as Borrower may select upon notice, as set forth in Section 2.5 hereof; provided that, if Borrower shall fail to so select the duration of any Interest Period at least three Business Days prior to the Interest Adjustment Date applicable to such Eurodollar Loan, Borrower shall be deemed to have converted such Eurodollar Loan to a Base Rate Loan at the end of the then current Interest Period.
 
"Letter of Credit" shall mean a commercial documentary letter of credit or standby letter of credit that shall be issued by the Fronting Lender for the account of Borrower or a Guarantor of Payment, including amendments thereto, if any, and shall have an expiration date no later than the earlier of (a) two years after its date of issuance or (b) five Business Days prior to the last day of the Commitment Period.
 
"Letter of Credit Commitment" shall mean the commitment of the Fronting Lender, on behalf of the Lenders, to issue Letters of Credit in an aggregate face amount of up to One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000).
 
"Letter of Credit Exposure" shall mean, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn face amount of all issued and outstanding Letters of Credit, and (b) the aggregate of the
draws made on Letters of Credit that have not been reimbursed by Borrower or converted to a Revolving Loan pursuant to Section 2.2(b)(v) hereof.
 
"Lien" shall mean any mortgage, deed of trust, security interest, lien (statutory or other), charge, encumbrance on, pledge or deposit of, or conditional sale, leasing, sale with a right of redemption or other title retention agreement and any capitalized lease with respect to any property (real or personal) or asset.
 
"Loan" shall mean a Revolving Loan or a Swing Loan granted to Borrower by the Lenders in accordance with Section 2.2(a) or 2.2(c) hereof.
 
"Loan Documents" shall mean, collectively, this Agreement, each Note, each Guaranty of Payment, each Letter of Credit and any letter of credit agreement between Borrower and the Fronting Lender, the Agent Fee Letter, the BOCM Fee Letter and the Closing Fee Letter, as any of the foregoing may from time to time be amended, restated or otherwise modified or replaced, and any other document delivered pursuant thereto.
 
"Margin Adjustment Date" shall mean any date when a new Moody's Rating or S&P Rating is issued, by either announcement or publication.
 
"Material Adverse Effect" shall mean a material adverse effect on (a) the business, operations, property, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of Borrower, (b) the business, operations, property, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of the Companies taken as a whole, or (c) the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or the rights and remedies of Agent or the Lenders hereunder or thereunder.
 
"Material Indebtedness Agreement" shall mean any debt instrument, lease (capital, operating or otherwise), guaranty, contract, commitment, agreement or other arrangement evidencing any Indebtedness of a Company (or the Companies) then in excess of the amount of Fifteen Million Dollars ($15,000,000).
 
"Maximum Amount" shall mean, for each Lender, the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name under the column headed "Maximum Amount" as set forth on hereto, subject to decreases determined pursuant to Section 2.9(a) hereof, increases pursuant to Section 2.9(b) hereof and assignments of interests pursuant to Section 10.10 hereof; provided, however, that the Maximum Amount for the Swing Line Lender shall exclude the Swing Line Commitment (other than its pro rata share), and the Maximum Amount of the Fronting Lender shall exclude the Letter of Credit Commitment (other than its pro rata share).
Schedule 1
 
"Maximum Commitment Amount" shall mean Four Hundred Million Dollars ($400,000,000).
 
"Moody's" shall mean Moody's Investors Service, Inc., or any successor to such company.
"Moody's Rating" shall mean the rating assigned by Moody's to the senior unsecured long-term indebtedness of Parent or of Borrower with a Parent guaranty.
 
"Multiemployer Plan" shall mean a Pension Plan that is subject to the requirements of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
 
"Note" shall mean a Revolving Credit Note or the Swing Line Note, or any other promissory note delivered pursuant to this Agreement.
 
"Notice of Loan" shall mean a Notice of Loan in the form of the attached .
Exhibit C
 
"Obligations" shall mean, collectively, (a) all Indebtedness and other obligations incurred by Borrower or any Guarantor of Payment to Agent, the Fronting Lender, the Swing Line Lender or any Lender pursuant to this Agreement, and includes the principal of and interest on all Loans and all obligations pursuant to Letters of Credit, (b) each extension, renewal or refinancing thereof in whole or in part, and (c) the facility fees, utilization fees, the other fees and any prepayment fees payable hereunder, and all fees and charges in connection with the Letters of Credit.
 
"Off-Balance Sheet Liability" of a Person shall mean (a) any repurchase obligation or liability of such Person with respect to accounts or notes receivable sold by such Person, (b) any liability under any sale and leaseback transaction which is not a Capitalized Lease, or (c) any obligation arising with respect to any other transaction which is the functional equivalent of or takes the place of borrowing but which does not constitute a liability on the balance sheets of such Person, but excluding from this subpart (c) Operating Leases.
 
"Operating Lease" of a Person shall mean any lease of assets (other than a Capitalized Lease) by such Person as lessee that has an original term (including any required renewals and any renewals effective at the option of the lessor) of one year or more.
 
"Organizational Documents" shall mean, with respect to any Person (other than an individual), such Person's Articles (Certificate) of Incorporation, operating agreement or equivalent formation documents, and Regulations (Bylaws), or equivalent governing documents, and any amendments to any of the foregoing.
 
"Other Taxes" shall mean any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, goods and services taxes, harmonized sales taxes and other sales taxes, charges or similar levies (other than Excluded Taxes) arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
 
"Parent" shall mean Cintas Corporation, a Washington corporation, and its successors.
 
"Parent Guaranty of Payment" shall mean a Guaranty of Payment, substantially in the form of the attached , executed and delivered by Parent with respect to the Obligations, as the same may from time to time be amended, restated or otherwise modified.
Exhibit G
"PBGC" shall mean the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or its successor.
 
"Pension Plan" shall mean an ERISA Plan that is a "pension plan" (within the meaning of ERISA Section 3(2)).
 
"Person" shall mean any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated organization, corporation, limited liability company, institution, trust, estate, government or other agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity.
 
"Prime Rate" shall mean the interest rate established from time to time by Agent as Agent's prime rate, whether or not such rate shall be publicly announced; the Prime Rate may not be the lowest interest rate charged by Agent for commercial or other extensions of credit. Each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective immediately from and after such change.
 
"Regularly Scheduled Payment Date" shall mean the last day of each February, May, August and November of each year.
 
"Related Writing" shall mean each Loan Document and any other guaranty agreement, subordination agreement, financial statement, audit report or other writing furnished by any Credit Party, or any of its officers, to Agent or the Lenders pursuant to or otherwise in connection with this Agreement.
 
"Reportable Event" shall mean any of the events described in Section 4043 of ERISA except where notice is waived by the PBGC.
 
"Request for Extension" shall mean a notice, substantially in the form of the attached .
Exhibit F
 
"Required Lenders" shall mean the holders of at least fifty-one percent (51%) of the Total Commitment Amount, or, if there is any borrowing hereunder, the holders of at least fifty-one percent (51%) of the Revolving Credit Exposure.
 
"Requirement of Law" shall mean, as to any Person, any law, treaty, rule or regulation or determination or policy statement or interpretation of an arbitrator or a court or other Governmental Authority, in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person or any of its property or to which such Person or any of its property is subject.
 
"Reserve Percentage" shall mean for any day that percentage (expressed as a decimal) that is in effect on such day, as prescribed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, all basic, supplemental, marginal and other reserves and taking into account any transitional adjustments or other scheduled changes in reserve requirements) for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System in Cleveland, Ohio, in respect of Eurocurrency Liabilities.  The Derived Eurodollar Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in the Reserve Percentage.
 
"Revolving Credit Commitment" shall mean the obligation hereunder, during the Commitment Period, of (a) each Lender to make Revolving Loans and participate in Swing Loans and Letters of Credit up to the Maximum Amount for such Lender, (b) the Fronting Lender to issue Letters of Credit pursuant to the Letter of Credit Commitment, and (c) the Swing Line Lender to make Swing Loans pursuant to the Swing Line Commitment.
 
"Revolving Credit Exposure" shall mean, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate principal amount of all Revolving Loans outstanding, (b) the Swing Line Exposure, and (c) the Letter of Credit Exposure.
 
"Revolving Credit Note" shall mean a Revolving Credit Note executed and delivered pursuant to Section 2.4(a) hereof.
 
"Revolving Loan" shall mean a Loan granted to Borrower by the Lenders in accordance with Section 2.2(a) hereof.
 
"SEC" shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or any governmental body or agency succeeding to any of its principle functions.
 
"Senior Note Indebtedness" shall mean the Indebtedness evidenced by the 5 1/8% Senior Notes due 2007 and the 6% Senior Notes due 2012, in each case issued by Borrower, or any replacement or refinancing of such Indebtedness.
 
"Significant Subsidiary" shall mean a Domestic Subsidiary of Parent that, at any time of determination, (a) accounts for more than fifteen percent (15%) of the consolidated revenues (calculated for the most recent fiscal quarter of Parent) of Parent and its Subsidiaries, or (b) is the owner of more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the consolidated assets (calculated as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter of Parent) of Parent and its Subsidiaries.
 
"Standard & Poor's" shall mean Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc., or any successor to such company.
 
"S&P Rating" shall mean the rating assigned by Standard & Poor's to the senior unsecured long-term indebtedness of Parent or of Borrower with a Parent guaranty.
 
"Subordinated" shall mean, as applied to Indebtedness, Indebtedness that shall have been subordinated (by written terms or written agreement being, in either case, in form and substance satisfactory to Agent and the Required Lenders) in favor of the prior payment in full of the Obligations.
 
"Subsidiary" of a Company shall mean (a) a corporation more than fifty percent (50%) of the Voting Power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Company or by one or more other subsidiaries of such Company or by such Company and one or more subsidiaries of such Company, (b) a partnership or limited liability company of which such Company, one or more other subsidiaries of such Company or such Company and one or more subsidiaries of such
Company, directly or indirectly, is a general partner or managing member, as the case may be, or otherwise has an ownership interest greater than fifty percent (50%) of all of the ownership interests in such partnership or limited liability company, or (c) any other Person (other than a corporation, partnership or limited liability company) in which such Company, one or more other subsidiaries of such Company or such Company and one or more subsidiaries of such Company, directly or indirectly, has at least a majority interest in the Voting Power or the power to elect or direct the election of a majority of directors or other governing body of such Person.
 
"Substantial Portion" shall mean, with respect to any assets of Parent and its Subsidiaries, assets which (a) represent more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the Consolidated assets of Parent and its Subsidiaries as would be shown in the Consolidated financial statements of Parent and its Subsidiaries at the beginning of the twelve (12) month period ending with the month in which such determination is made; (b) are responsible for more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the Consolidated net sales or the Consolidated net income of Parent and its Subsidiaries as reflected in the financial statements referred to in subpart (a) above; (c) represent more than thirty percent (30%) of the Consolidated assets of Parent and its Subsidiaries as would be shown in the most recent Consolidated financial statements of Parent and its Subsidiaries delivered to Agent under Section 5.3(a) or (b) hereof; or (d) are responsible for more than thirty percent (30%) of the Consolidated net sales or of the consolidated Net financial statements referred to in subpart (c) above.  For purposes of determining Consolidated assets and net sales under this definition, any Acquisition consummated after the date of the relevant financial statement but before the relevant determination date shall be deemed to have occurred on the first day of the relevant period for which such Consolidated assets and net sales were calculated on a pro rata basis acceptable to Agent.
 
"Swing Line" shall mean the credit facility established by the Swing Line Lender for Borrower in accordance with Section 2.2(c) hereof.
 
"Swing Line Commitment" shall mean the commitment of the Swing Line Lender to make Swing Loans to Borrower up to the aggregate amount at any time outstanding of Twenty Five Million Dollars ($25,000,000).
 
"Swing Line Exposure" shall mean, at any time, the aggregate principal amount of all Swing Loans outstanding.
 
"Swing Line Lender" shall mean KeyBank National Association, as holder of the Swing Line Commitment and each other Eligible Transferee to which all of the Swing Line Commitment is assigned pursuant to Section 10.10 hereof.
 
"Swing Line Note" shall mean the Swing Line Note executed and delivered pursuant to Section 2.4(b) hereof.
 
"Swing Loan" shall mean a loan granted to Borrower by the Swing Line Lender under the Swing Line.
"Swing Loan Maturity Date" shall mean, with respect to any Swing Loan, the earlier of (a) fifteen (15) days after the date such Swing Loan is made, or (b) the last day of the Commitment Period.
 
"Taxes" shall mean any present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, fees, deductions or withholdings now or hereafter imposed, levied, collected, withheld or assessed by any Governmental Authority (together with any interest, penalties or similar liabilities with respect thereto) other than Excluded Taxes.
 
"Total Commitment Amount" shall mean the Closing Commitment Amount, as such amount may be increased up to the Maximum Commitment Amount pursuant to Section 2.9(b) hereof, or decreased pursuant to Section 2.9(a) hereof.
 
"Voting Power" shall mean, with respect to any Person, the exclusive ability to control, through the ownership of shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests or otherwise, the election of members of the board of directors or other similar governing body of such Person.  The holding of a designated percentage of Voting Power of a Person means the ownership of shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests or other interests of such Person sufficient to control exclusively the election of that percentage of the members of the board of directors or similar governing body of such Person.
 
"Welfare Plan" shall mean an ERISA Plan that is a "welfare plan" within the meaning of ERISA Section 3(l).
 
Section 1.2.  .  Any accounting term not specifically defined in this Article I shall have the meaning ascribed thereto by GAAP.
Accounting Terms
 
Section 1.3.  .  The foregoing definitions shall be applicable to the singular and plurals of the foregoing defined terms.
Terms Generally
 
Section 2.1.  .
Amount and Nature of Credit
 
(a)
                                 
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Lenders, during the Commitment Period and to the extent hereinafter provided, shall make Loans to Borrower, participate in Swing Loans made by the Swing Line Lender to Borrower, and issue or participate in Letters of Credit at the request of Borrower, in such aggregate amount as Borrower shall request pursuant to the Commitment; provided, however, that in no event shall the Revolving Credit Exposure be in excess of the Total Commitment Amount.
 
(b)
                                
Each Lender, for itself and not one for any other, agrees to make Loans, participate in Swing Loans, and issue or participate in Letters of Credit, during the Commitment Period, on such basis that, immediately after the completion of any borrowing by Borrower or the issuance of a Letter of Credit:
(i)
                                    
the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Loans made by such Lender (other than Swing Loans made by the Swing Line Lender), when combined with such Lender's pro rata share, if any, of the Letter of Credit Exposure and the Swing Line Exposure, shall not be in excess of the Maximum Amount for such Lender; and
 
(ii)
                                 
the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Loans (other than Swing Loans) made by such Lender shall represent that percentage of the aggregate principal amount then outstanding on all Loans (other than Swing Loans) together with such Lender's interest in the Letter of Credit Exposure and the Swing Line Exposure that shall be such Lender's Commitment Percentage.
 
Each borrowing (other than Swing Loans) from the Lenders hereunder shall be made pro rata according to the respective Commitment Percentages of the Lenders.
 
(c)
                                 
The Loans may be made as Revolving Loans as described in Section 2.2(a) hereof and Swing Loans as described in Section 2.2(c) hereof, and Letters of Credit may be issued in accordance with Section 2.2(b) hereof.
 
Section 2.2.  .
Revolving Credit
 
(a)
                                 
Revolving Loans
.  Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, during the Commitment Period, the Lenders shall make a Revolving Loan or Revolving Loans to Borrower in such amount or amounts as Borrower may from time to time request, but not exceeding in aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding hereunder the Total Commitment Amount, when such Revolving Loans are combined with the Letter of Credit Exposure and the Swing Line Exposure.  Borrower shall have the option, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, to borrow Revolving Loans, maturing on the last day of the Commitment Period, by means of any combination of Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Loans.  Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, Borrower shall be entitled under this Section 2.2(a) to borrow funds, repay the same in whole or in part and re-borrow hereunder at any time and from time to time during the Commitment Period.
 
(b)
                                
Letters of Credit
.
 
(i)
                                    
Generally
.  Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, during the Commitment Period, the Fronting Lender shall, in its own name, on behalf of the Lenders, issue such Letters of Credit for the account of a Credit Party, as Borrower may from time to time request.  Borrower shall not request any Letter of Credit (and the Fronting Lender shall not be obligated to issue any Letter of Credit) if, after giving effect thereto, (A) the Letter of Credit Exposure would exceed the Letter of Credit Commitment or (B) the Revolving Credit Exposure would exceed the Total Commitment Amount.  The issuance of each Letter of Credit shall confer upon each Lender the benefits and liabilities of a participation consisting of an undivided pro rata interest in the Letter of Credit to the extent of such Lender's Commitment Percentage.
(ii)
                                 
Request for Letter of Credit
.  Each request for a Letter of Credit shall be delivered to Agent (and to the Fronting Lender, if the Fronting Lender is a Lender other than Agent) by an Authorized Officer not later than 11:00 A.M. (Eastern time) three Business Days prior to the day upon which the Letter of Credit is to be issued.  Each such request shall be in a form acceptable to Agent (and the Fronting Lender, if the Fronting Lender is a Lender other than Agent) and shall specify the face amount thereof, whether such Letter of Credit shall be a commercial documentary or a standby Letter of Credit, the account party, the beneficiary, the intended date of issuance, the expiry date thereof, and the nature of the transaction to be supported thereby.  Concurrently with each such request, Borrower, and any Credit Party for whose account the Letter of Credit is to be issued, shall execute and deliver to the Fronting Lender an appropriate application and agreement, being in the standard form of the Fronting Lender for such letters of credit, as amended to conform to the provisions of this Agreement if required by Agent; provided, however, that, in the event Fronting Lender's usual and customary practices for issuing Letters of Credit, or the terms and conditions of any agreement relating to any such Letter of Credit between Borrower and the Fronting Lender, conflict with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall control.  Agent shall give the Fronting Lender and each Lender notice of each such request for a Letter of Credit.
 
(iii)
                              
Commercial Documentary Letters of Credit
.  With respect to each Letter of Credit that shall be a commercial documentary letter of credit and the drafts thereunder, whether issued for the account of Borrower or any other Credit Party, Borrower agrees to (A) pay to Agent, for the pro rata benefit of the Lenders, a non-refundable commission based upon the face amount of the Letter of Credit, which shall be paid quarterly in arrears, on each Regularly Scheduled Payment Date, at the rate of (1) the Applicable Margin (as in effect from time to time) multiplied by (2) the face amount of such Letter of Credit; (B) pay to Agent, for the sole benefit of the Fronting Lender, an additional Letter of Credit fee, which shall be paid on the date that any draw shall be made on such Letter of Credit, at the rate of one-tenth percent (1/10%) of the amount drawn under such Letter of Credit; and (C) pay to Agent, for the sole benefit of the Fronting Lender, such other issuance, amendment, negotiation, draw, acceptance, telex, courier, postage and similar transactional fees as are generally charged by the Fronting Lender under its fee schedule as in effect from time to time.
 
(iv)
                             
Standby Letters of Credit
.  With respect to each Letter of Credit that shall be a standby letter of credit and the drafts thereunder, if any, whether issued for the account of Borrower or any other Credit Party, Borrower agrees to (A) pay to Agent, for the pro rata benefit of the Lenders, a non-refundable commission based upon the face amount of such Letter of Credit, which shall be paid quarterly in arrears, on each Regularly Scheduled Payment Date, at the rate of (1) the Applicable Margin (as in effect from time to time) multiplied by (2) the face amount of such Letter of Credit; (B) pay to Agent, for the sole benefit of the Fronting Lender, an additional Letter of Credit fee, which shall be paid on each date that such Letter of Credit shall be issued, amended or renewed at the rate of one-tenth percent (1/10%) of the face amount of such Letter of Credit; and (C) pay to Agent, for the sole benefit of the Fronting Lender, such other issuance, amendment, negotiation, draw, acceptance, telex, courier, postage and similar
transactional fees as are generally charged by the Fronting Lender under its fee schedule as in effect from time to time.
 
(v)
                                
Refunding of Letters of Credit with Revolving Loans
.  Whenever a Letter of Credit shall be drawn, Borrower shall, within one Business Day, reimburse the Fronting Lender for the amount drawn.  In the event that the amount drawn shall not have been reimbursed by Borrower on the date of the drawing of such Letter of Credit, at the sole option of Agent (and the Fronting Lender, if the Fronting Lender is a Lender other than Agent), Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Revolving Loan, subject to the provisions of Sections 2.2(a) and 2.5 hereof (other than the requirement set forth in Section 2.5(d) hereof), in the amount drawn.  Such Revolving Loan shall be evidenced by the Revolving Credit Notes (or, if a Lender has not requested a Revolving Credit Note, by the records of Agent and such Lender).  Each Lender agrees to make a Revolving Loan on the date of such notice, subject to no conditions precedent whatsoever.  Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to make a Revolving Loan pursuant to Section 2.2(a) hereof when required by this subsection (v) shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including, without limitation, the occurrence and continuance of a Default or Event of Default, and that its payment to Agent, for the account of the Fronting Lender, of the proceeds of such Revolving Loan shall be made without any offset, abatement, recoupment, counterclaim, withholding or reduction whatsoever and whether or not such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment shall have been reduced or terminated.  Borrower irrevocably authorizes and instructs Agent to apply the proceeds of any borrowing pursuant to this subsection to reimburse, in full, the Fronting Lender for the amount drawn on such Letter of Credit.  Each such Revolving Loan shall be deemed to be a Base Rate Loan unless otherwise requested by and available to Borrower hereunder.  Each Lender is hereby authorized to record on its records relating to its Revolving Credit Note (or, if such Lender has not requested a Revolving Credit Note, its records relating to Revolving Loans) such Lender's pro rata share of the amounts paid and not reimbursed on the Letters of Credit.
 
(vi)
                             
Participation in Letters of Credit
.  If, for any reason, Agent (or the Fronting Lender if the Fronting Lender shall be a Lender other than Agent) shall be unable to or, in the opinion of Agent, it shall be impracticable to, convert any Letter of Credit to a Revolving Loan pursuant to the preceding subsection, Agent (or the Fronting Lender if the Fronting Lender is a Lender other than Agent) shall have the right to request that each Lender purchase a participation in the amount due with respect to such Letter of Credit, and Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof (by facsimile or telephone, confirmed in writing).  Upon such notice, but without further action, the Fronting Lender hereby agrees to grant to each Lender, and each Lender hereby agrees to acquire from the Fronting Lender, an undivided participation interest in the amount due with respect to such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to such Lender's Commitment Percentage of the principal amount due with respect to such Letter of Credit.  In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees, upon receipt of notice as provided above, to pay to Agent, for the account of the Fronting Lender, such Lender's ratable share of the amount due with respect to such Letter of Credit (determined in accordance with such Lender's Commitment Percentage).  Each
Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations in the amount due under any Letter of Credit that is drawn but not reimbursed by Borrower pursuant to this subsection (vi) shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including, without limitation, the occurrence and continuance of a Default or Event of Default, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, recoupment, counterclaim, withholding or reduction whatsoever and whether or not such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment shall have been reduced or terminated.  Each Lender shall comply with its obligation under this subsection (vi) by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.5 hereof with respect to Revolving Loans.  Each Lender is hereby authorized to record on its records such Lender's pro rata share of the amounts paid and not reimbursed on the Letters of Credit.  In addition, each Lender agrees to risk participate in the Existing Letters of Credit as provided in subsection (vii) below.
 
(vii)
                          
Existing Letters of Credit
.  hereto contains a description of all letters of credit outstanding on, and to continue in effect after, the Closing Date. Each such letter of credit issued by a bank that is or becomes a Lender under this Agreement on the Closing Date (each an "Existing Letter of Credit") shall constitute a "Letter of Credit" for all purposes of this Agreement, issued, for purposes of subsection (vi) above, on the Closing Date.  Borrower, Agent and the Lenders hereby agree that, from and after such date, the terms of this Agreement shall apply to the Existing Letters of Credit, superseding any other agreement theretofore applicable to them to the extent inconsistent with the terms hereof.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any reimbursement or other agreement applicable to the Existing Letters of Credit, the fees payable in connection with each Existing Letter of Credit to be shared with the Lenders, or paid to the Fronting Lender for its own account, shall accrue from the Closing Date at the rate provided in this Section 2.2(b).
Schedule 2.2
 
(c)
                                 
Swing Loans
.
 
(i)
                                    
Generally
.  Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, during the Commitment Period, the Swing Line Lender shall make a Swing Loan or Swing Loans to Borrower in such amount or amounts as Borrower, through an Authorized Officer, may from time to time request; provided that Borrower shall not request any Swing Loan if, after giving effect thereto, (A) the Revolving Credit Exposure would exceed the Total Commitment Amount, or (B) the Swing Line Exposure would exceed the Swing Line Commitment.  Each Swing Loan shall be due and payable on the Swing Loan Maturity Date applicable thereto.
 
(ii)
                                 
Refunding of Swing Loans
.  If the Swing Line Lender so elects, by giving notice to Borrower and the Lenders, Borrower agrees that the Swing Line Lender shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to require that any Swing Loan be refinanced as a Revolving Loan.  Such Revolving Loan shall be a Base Rate Loan unless otherwise requested by and available to Borrower hereunder.  Upon receipt of such notice by Borrower and the Lenders, Borrower shall be deemed, on such day, to have requested a Revolving Loan in the principal amount of the Swing Loan in accordance with Sections
2.2(a) and 2.5 hereof (other than the requirement set forth in Section 2.5(d) hereof).  Such Revolving Loan shall be evidenced by the Revolving Credit Notes (or, if a Lender has not requested a Revolving Credit Note, by the records of Agent and such Lender).  Each Lender agrees to make a Revolving Loan on the date of such notice, subject to no conditions precedent whatsoever.  Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that such Lender's obligation to make a Revolving Loan pursuant to Section 2.2(a) hereof when required by this subsection (ii) is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including, without limitation, the occurrence and continuance of a Default or Event of Default, and that its payment to Agent, for the account of the Swing Line Lender, of the proceeds of such Revolving Loan shall be made without any offset, abatement, recoupment, counterclaim, withholding or reduction whatsoever and whether or not such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment shall have been reduced or terminated.  Borrower irrevocably authorizes and instructs Agent to apply the proceeds of any borrowing pursuant to this subsection (ii) to repay in full such Swing Loan.  Each Lender is hereby authorized to record on its records relating to its Revolving Credit Note (or, if such Lender has not requested a Revolving Credit Note, its records relating to Revolving Loans) such Lender's pro rata share of the amounts paid to refund such Swing Loan.
 
(iii)
                              
Participation in Swing Loans
.  If, for any reason, Agent is unable to or, in the opinion of Agent, it is impracticable to, convert any Swing Loan to a Revolving Loan pursuant to the preceding subsection (ii), then on any day that a Swing Loan is outstanding (whether before or after the maturity thereof), Agent shall have the right to request that each Lender purchase a participation in such Swing Loan, and Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof (by facsimile or telephone, confirmed in writing).  Upon such notice, but without further action, the Swing Line Lender hereby agrees to grant to each Lender, and each Lender hereby agrees to acquire from the Swing Line Lender, an undivided participation interest in such Swing Loan in an amount equal to such Lender's Commitment Percentage of the principal amount of such Swing Loan.  In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees, upon receipt of notice as provided above, to pay to Agent, for the benefit of the Swing Line Lender, such Lender's ratable share of such Swing Loan (determined in accordance with such Lender's Commitment Percentage).  Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations in Swing Loans pursuant to this subsection (iii) is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including, without limitation, the occurrence and continuance of a Default or an Event of Default, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, recoupment, counterclaim, withholding or reduction whatsoever and whether or not such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment shall have been reduced or terminated.  Each Lender shall comply with its obligation under this subsection (iii) by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.5 hereof with respect to Revolving Loans to be made by such Lender.
Section 2.3.  .
Interest
 
(a)
                                 
Revolving Loans
.
 
(i)
                                    
Base Rate Loan
.  Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of a Base Rate Loan outstanding from time to time from the date thereof until paid at the Base Rate from time to time in effect.  Interest on such Base Rate Loan shall be payable, commencing August 31, 2004, and on each Regularly Scheduled Payment Date thereafter and at the maturity thereof.
 
(ii)
                                 
Eurodollar Loans
.  Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurodollar Loan outstanding from time to time, fixed in advance on the first day of the Interest Period applicable thereto through the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto (but subject to changes in the Applicable Margin), at the Derived Eurodollar Rate.  Interest on such Eurodollar Loan shall be payable on each Interest Adjustment Date with respect to an Interest Period (provided that if an Interest Period shall exceed three months, the interest must be paid every three months, commencing three months from the beginning of such Interest Period).
 
(b)
                                
Swing Loans
.  Borrower shall pay interest to Agent, for the sole benefit of the Swing Line Lender (and any Lender that shall have purchased a participation in such Swing Loan), on the unpaid principal amount of each Swing Loan outstanding from time to time from the date thereof until paid at the Base Rate.  Interest on each Swing Loan shall be payable on the Swing Loan Maturity Date applicable thereto.  Each Swing Loan shall bear interest for a minimum of one day.
 
(c)
                                 
Default Rate
.  Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, if an Event of Default shall occur, (i) the principal of each Loan and the unpaid interest thereon shall bear interest, until paid, at the Default Rate, and (ii) in the case of any other amount due from Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document, such amount shall bear interest at the Default Rate.
 
(d)
                                
Limitation on Interest
.  In no event shall the rate of interest hereunder exceed the maximum rate allowable by law.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the "Maximum Rate").  If Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to Borrower.  In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, (i) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (ii) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (iii) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations.
Section 2.4.  .
Evidence of Indebtedness
 
(a)
                                 
Revolving Loans
.  To evidence the obligation of Borrower to a Lender, upon the request of such Lender to Agent and Agent to Borrower, Borrower shall execute a Revolving Credit Note in the form of the attached , payable to the order of such Lender in the principal amount of its Revolving Credit Commitment, or, if less, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Revolving Loans made by such Lender; provided, however, that the provision of a Revolving Credit Note shall be at the option of each Lender and the failure of a Lender to request a Revolving Credit Note shall in no way detract from Borrower's obligations to such Lender hereunder.
Exhibit A
 
(b)
                                
Swing Loan
.  The obligation of Borrower to repay the Swing Loans and to pay interest thereon shall be evidenced by a Swing Line Note of Borrower in the form of the attached , and payable to the order of the Swing Line Lender in the principal amount of the Swing Line Commitment, or, if less, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Swing Loans made by the Swing Line Lender.
Exhibit B
 
Section 2.5.  .
Notice of Credit Event; Funding of Loans
 
(a)
                                 
Notice of Credit Event
.  Borrower, through an Authorized Officer, shall provide to Agent a Notice of Loan prior to (i) 11:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on the proposed date of borrowing or conversion of any Base Rate Loan, (ii) 11:00 A.M. (Eastern time) three Business Days prior to the proposed date of borrowing, conversion or continuation of any Eurodollar Loan, and (iii) 2:00 P.M. (Eastern time) on the proposed date of borrowing of any Swing Loan.  Borrower shall comply with the notice provisions set forth in Section 2.2(b) hereof with respect to Letters of Credit.
 
(b)
                                
Funding of Loans
.  Agent shall notify each Lender of the date, amount and Interest Period (if applicable) promptly upon the receipt of a Notice of Loan, and, in any event, by 2:00 P.M. (Eastern time) on the date such notice is received.  On the date that the Credit Event set forth in such notice is to occur, each such Lender shall provide to Agent, not later than 3:00 P.M. (Eastern time), the amount in Dollars, in federal or other immediately available funds, required of it.  If Agent receives the funds from the Lenders by 3:00 P.M. (Eastern time), then Agent shall make the Loan to Borrower on or before 4:00 P.M. (Eastern time).  If Agent shall elect to advance the proceeds of such Loan prior to receiving funds from such Lender, Agent shall have the right, upon prior notice to Borrower, to debit any account of Borrower or otherwise receive such amount from Borrower, on demand, in the event that such Lender shall fail to reimburse Agent in accordance with this subsection.  Agent shall also have the right to receive interest from such Lender at the Federal Funds Effective Rate in the event that such Lender shall fail to provide its portion of the Loan on the date requested and Agent shall elect to provide such funds.
 
(c)
                                 
Conversion of Loans
.  At the request of Borrower to Agent, subject to the notice and other provisions of this Section 2.5, the Lenders shall convert a Base Rate Loan to one or more Eurodollar Loans at any time and shall convert a Eurodollar Loan to a Base Rate Loan on any Interest Adjustment Date applicable thereto.  Swing Loans may be converted by the Swing Line Lender to Revolving Loans in accordance with Section 2.2(c)(ii) hereof.
 
(d)
                                
Minimum Amount
.  Each request for:
 
(i)
                                    
a Base Rate Loan shall be in an amount of not less than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000), increased by increments of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) (provided, however, that a Base Rate Loan may be in an amount equal to the Total Commitment Amount minus the Revolving Credit Exposure);
 
(ii)
                                 
a Eurodollar Loan shall be in an amount of not less than Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000), increased by increments of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000); and
 
(iii)
                              
a Swing Loan shall be in an amount not less than Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000).
 
Section 2.6.  .
Payment on Loans and Other Obligations
 
(a)
                                 
Payments Generally
.  Each payment made hereunder by a Credit Party shall be made without any offset, abatement, recoupment, counterclaim, withholding or reduction whatsoever.
 
(b)
                                
Payments from Borrower
.  All payments (including prepayments) of the principal of or interest on any Loan or other payment, including but not limited to principal, interest or fees, or any other amount owed by Borrower under this Agreement, shall be made to Agent and shall be made in Dollars.  All payments described in this subsection (b) shall be remitted to Agent at the address of Agent for notices referred to in Section 10.4 hereof, for the account of the Lenders (or the Fronting Lender or the Swing Line Lender, as appropriate) not later than 1:00 P.M. (Eastern time) on the due date thereof in immediately available funds.  Any such payments received by Agent after 1:00 P.M. (Eastern time) shall be deemed to have been made and received on the next Business Day.
 
(c)
                                 
Payments to Lenders
.  Upon Agent's receipt of payments hereunder, Agent shall immediately distribute to each Lender (except with respect to Swing Loans, which shall be paid to the Swing Line Lender) its ratable share, if any, of the amount of principal, interest, and facility, utilization and other fees received by Agent for the account of such Lender.  Each Lender shall record any principal, interest or other payment, the principal amounts of Base Rate Loans, Eurodollar Loans and Swing Loans, prepayments, and the applicable dates, including Interest Periods, with respect to the Loans made, and payments received by such Lender, by such method as such Lender may generally employ; provided, however, that failure to make any such entry shall in no way detract from the obligations of Borrower under this Agreement or any Note.  The aggregate unpaid amount of Loans, types of Loans, Interest Periods and similar information with respect to the Loans and Letters of Credit set forth on the records of Agent shall be rebuttably presumptive evidence with respect to such information, including the amounts of principal and interest owing to each Lender.
 
(d)
                                
Timing of Payments
.  Whenever any payment to be made hereunder, including, without limitation, any payment to be made on any Loan, shall be stated to be due on a day that is not a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next Business Day and such extension
of time shall in each case be included in the computation of the interest payable on such Loan; provided, however, that, with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, if the next Business Day shall fall in the succeeding calendar month, such payment shall be made on the preceding Business Day and the relevant Interest Period shall be adjusted accordingly.
 
Section 2.7.  .
Prepayment
 
(a)
                                 
Right to Prepay
.  Borrower shall have the right at any time or from time to time to prepay, on a pro rata basis for all of the Lenders (except with respect to Swing Loans, which shall be paid to the Swing Line Lender), all or any part of the principal amount of the Loans, as designated by Borrower.  Such payment shall include interest accrued on the amount so prepaid to the date of such prepayment and any amount payable under Article III hereof with respect to the amount being prepaid.    Borrower shall have the right, at any time or from time to time, to prepay, for the benefit of the Swing Line Lender (and any Lender that has purchased a participation in such Swing Loan), all or any part of the principal amount of the Swing Loans then outstanding, as designated by Borrower, plus interest accrued on the amount so prepaid to the date of such prepayment.
 
(b)
                                
Notice of Prepayment
.  Borrower shall give Agent notice of prepayment of a Base Rate Loan or Swing Loan by not later than 1:00 P.M. (Eastern time) one Business Day before the Business Day on which such prepayment is to be made and written notice of the prepayment of any Eurodollar Loan not later than 1:00 P.M. (Eastern time) three Business Days before the Business Day on which such prepayment is to be made.
 
(c)
                                 
Minimum Amount
.  Each prepayment of a Eurodollar Loan by Borrower shall be in the aggregate principal amount of not less than Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000), except in the case of a mandatory prepayment in connection with Section 2.11 or Article III hereof.
 
Section 2.8.  .
Facility and Other Fees
 
(a)
                                 
Facility Fee
.  Borrower shall pay to Agent, for the ratable account of the Lenders, as a consideration for the Commitment, a facility fee from the Closing Date to and including the last day of the Commitment Period, payable quarterly, at a rate per annum equal to (i) the Applicable Facility Fee Rate as in effect from time to time, times (ii) the average daily Total Commitment Amount in effect during such quarter.  The facility fee shall be payable in arrears, on August 31, 2004 and on each Regularly Scheduled Payment Date thereafter, and on the last day of the Commitment Period.
 
(b)
                                
Utilization Fee
.  For each day that the Revolving Credit Exposure exceeds an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the Total Commitment Amount in effect on that day, Borrower shall pay to Agent, for the ratable account of the Lenders, a utilization fee at the rate per annum equal to (i) the Applicable Utilization Fee Rate as in effect from time to time, times (ii) the Revolving Credit Exposure on that day.  The utilization fee shall be payable in arrears for any fiscal quarter for which a utilization fee is payable, commencing August 31, 2004, and on each Regularly Scheduled Payment Date thereafter, and on the last day of the Commitment Period.
(c)
                                 
Agent Fee
.  Borrower shall pay to Agent, for its sole benefit, the fees set forth in the Agent Fee Letter.
 
Section 2.9.  .
Modification of Commitment
 
(a)
                                 
Optional Reduction of Commitment
.  Borrower may at any time and from time to time permanently reduce in whole or ratably in part the Total Commitment Amount to an amount not less than the then existing Revolving Credit Exposure, by giving Agent not fewer than three Business Days' written notice of such reduction, provided that any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount, for all of the Lenders, of not less than Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000), increased by increments of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000).  Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the date of each such reduction and such Lender's proportionate share thereof.  After each such reduction, the facility fees payable hereunder shall be calculated upon the Total Commitment Amount as so reduced.  If Borrower reduces in whole the Commitment, on the effective date of such reduction (Borrower having prepaid in full the unpaid principal balance, if any, of the Loans, together with all interest and facility, utilization and other fees accrued and unpaid, and provided that no Letter of Credit Exposure or Swing Line Exposure shall exist), all of the Notes shall be delivered to Agent marked "Canceled" and Agent shall redeliver such Notes to Borrower.  Any partial reduction in the Total Commitment Amount shall be effective during the remainder of the Commitment Period.
 
(b)
                                
Increase in Commitment
.  At any time during the Commitment Increase Period, Borrower may request that Agent increase the Total Commitment Amount from the Closing Commitment Amount up to an amount that shall not exceed the Maximum Commitment Amount.  Each such increase shall be in an amount of at least Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000), increased by increments of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000), and may be made by either (i) proportionally increasing, for one or more Lenders, with their prior written consent, their respective Revolving Credit Commitments, or (ii) including one or more Additional Lenders, each with a new Revolving Credit Commitment, as a party to this Agreement (collectively, the "Additional Commitment").  During the Commitment Increase Period, the Lenders agree that Agent, in its sole discretion, may permit one or more Additional Commitments upon satisfaction of the following requirements: (A) each Additional Lender, if any, shall be an Eligible Transferee and shall execute an Additional Lender Assumption Agreement, (B) Agent shall provide to Borrower and each Lender a revised to this Agreement, including revised Commitment Percentages for each of the Lenders, if appropriate, at least three Business Days prior to the effectiveness of such Additional Commitments (each an "Additional Lender Assumption Effective Date"), and (C) Borrower shall execute and deliver to Agent and the Lenders such replacement or additional Revolving Credit Notes as shall be required by Agent (and requested by the Lenders).  The Lenders hereby authorize Agent to execute each Additional Lender Assumption Agreement on behalf of the Lenders.  On each Additional Lender Assumption Effective Date, the Lenders shall make adjustments among themselves with respect to the Revolving Loans then outstanding and amounts of principal, interest, facility fees, utilization fees and other amounts paid or payable with respect thereto as shall be necessary, in the opinion of Agent, in order to reallocate among such Lenders such outstanding amounts, based on the revised Commitment Percentages and to otherwise carry out fully the intent and
Schedule 1
terms of this Section 2.9(b).  Borrower shall not request any increase in the Commitment pursuant to this Section 2.9(b) if a Default or an Event of Default shall then exist, or immediately after giving effect to any such increase would exist.
 
Section 2.10.  .  With the exception of Base Rate Loans, interest on Loans and facility, utilization and other fees and charges hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year having three hundred sixty (360) days and calculated for the actual number of days elapsed.  With respect to Base Rate Loans, interest shall be computed on the basis of a year having three hundred sixty-five (365) days or three hundred sixty-six (366) days, as the case may be, and calculated for the actual number of days elapsed.
Computation of Interest and Fees
 
Section 2.11.  .
Mandatory Payment
 
(a)
                                 
If, at any time, the Revolving Credit Exposure shall exceed the Total Commitment Amount as then in effect, Borrower shall, as promptly as practicable, but in no event later than the next Business Day, prepay an aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Loans sufficient to bring the Revolving Credit Exposure within the Total Commitment Amount.
 
(b)
                                
If, at any time, the Swing Line Exposure shall exceed the Swing Line Commitment, Borrower shall, as promptly as practicable, but in no event later than the next Business Day, prepay an aggregate principal amount of the Swing Loans sufficient to bring the Swing Line Exposure within the Swing Line Commitment.
 
(c)
                                 
Unless otherwise designated by Borrower, each prepayment pursuant to Section 2.11(a) hereof shall be applied in the following order (i) first, on a pro rata basis among the outstanding Base Rate Loans, and (ii) second, among the outstanding Eurodollar Loans in such manner as Borrower may specify (but pro rata among the Lenders), provided that, if the outstanding principal amount of any Eurodollar Loan shall be reduced to an amount less than the minimum amount set forth in Section 2.5(d) hereof as a result of such prepayment, then such Eurodollar Loan shall be converted into a Base Rate Loan on the date of such prepayment.  Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Loan pursuant to this Section 2.11 shall be subject to the prepayment provisions set forth in Article III hereof.
 
Section 2.12.  .  Contemporaneously with the delivery of the financial statements required pursuant to Section 5.3(b) hereof (beginning with the financial statements for the fiscal year of Borrower ending May 31, 2005), Borrower may deliver a Request for Extension, requesting that the Lenders extend the maturity of the Revolving Credit Commitments for one additional year.  Each such extension shall require the unanimous written consent of all of the Lenders and shall be upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed to by Agent, Borrower and the Lenders.  Borrower shall pay any attorneys' fees or other expenses of Agent in connection with the documentation of any such extension, as well as such other fees as may be agreed upon between Borrower and Agent.
Extension of Commitment
Section 3.1.  .
Requirements of Law
 
(a)
                                 
If, after the Closing Date (i) the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law or in the interpretation or application thereof or (ii) the compliance by any Lender with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any central bank or other Governmental Authority:
 
(A)
                             
shall subject any Lender to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Letter of Credit or any Eurodollar Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender in respect thereof (except for Taxes and Excluded Taxes which are governed by Section 3.2 hereof);
 
(B)
                               
shall impose, modify or hold applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan or similar requirement against assets held by, deposits or other liabilities in or for the account of, advances, loans or other extensions of credit by, or any other acquisition of funds by, any office of such Lender that is not otherwise included in the determination of the Eurodollar Rate; or
 
(C)
                               
shall impose on such Lender any other condition;
 
and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Lender of making, converting into, continuing or maintaining Eurodollar Loans or issuing or participating in Letters of Credit, or to reduce any amount receivable hereunder in respect thereof, then, in any such case, Borrower shall pay to such Lender, promptly after receipt of a written request therefor, any additional amounts necessary to compensate such Lender for such increased cost or reduced amount receivable.  If any Lender becomes entitled to claim any additional amounts pursuant to this subsection (a), such Lender shall promptly notify Borrower (with a copy to Agent) of the event by reason of which it has become so entitled.
 
(b)
                                
If any Lender shall have determined that, after the Closing Date, the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law regarding capital adequacy or in the interpretation or application thereof or compliance by such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender with any request or directive regarding capital adequacy (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority shall have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or such corporation's capital as a consequence of its obligations hereunder, or under or in respect of any Letter of Credit, to a level below that which such Lender or such corporation could have achieved but for such adoption, change or compliance (taking into consideration the policies of such Lender or corporation with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time, upon submission by such Lender to Borrower (with a copy to Agent) of a written request therefor (which shall include the method for calculating such amount), Borrower shall promptly pay or cause to be paid to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such reduction.
(c)
                                 
A certificate as to any additional amounts payable pursuant to this Section 3.1 submitted by any Lender to Borrower (with a copy to Agent) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.  In determining any such additional amounts, such Lender may use any reasonable method of averaging and attribution that it shall deem applicable.  The obligations of Borrower pursuant to this Section 3.1 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
 
(d)
                                
No Lender shall demand compensation pursuant to this Section 3.1 unless such Lender is seeking similar compensation under comparable provisions of the documents and agreements governing its loans for similarly situated borrowers.
 
Section 3.2.  .
Taxes
 
(a)
                                 
All payments made by any Credit Party under any Loan Document shall be made free and clear of, and without deduction or withholding for or on account of any Taxes or Other Taxes.  If any Taxes or Other Taxes are required to be withheld from any amounts payable to Agent or any Lender thereunder, the amounts so payable to Agent or such Lender shall be increased to the extent necessary to yield to Agent or such Lender (after payment of all Taxes and Other Taxes) interest or any such other amounts payable hereunder at the rates or in the amounts specified in the Loan Documents.
 
(b)
                                
In addition, the Credit Parties shall pay Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
 
(c)
                                 
Whenever any Taxes or Other Taxes are required to be withheld and paid by a Credit Party, such Credit Party shall timely withhold and pay such taxes to the relevant Governmental Authorities.  As promptly as possible thereafter, Borrower shall send to Agent for its own account or for the account of the relevant Lender, as the case may be, a certified copy of an original official receipt received by such Credit Party showing payment thereof.  If such Credit Party shall fail to pay any Taxes or Other Taxes when due to the appropriate taxing authority or fails to remit to Agent the required receipts or other required documentary evidence, Borrower shall indemnify Agent and the appropriate Lenders on demand for any incremental taxes, interest or penalties that may become payable by Agent or such Lender as a result of any such failure.
 
(d)
                                
If any Lender shall be so indemnified by a Credit Party, such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to obtain the benefits of any refund, deduction or credit for any taxes or other amounts with respect to the amount paid by such Credit Party and shall reimburse such Credit Party to the extent, but only to the extent, that such Lender shall receive a refund with respect to the amount paid by such Credit Party or an effective net reduction in taxes or other governmental charges (including any taxes imposed on or measured by the total net income of such Lender) of the United States or any state or subdivision or any other Governmental Authority thereof by virtue of any such deduction or credit, after first giving effect to all other deductions and credits otherwise available to such Lender.  If, at the time any audit of such Lender's income tax return is completed, such Lender determines, based on such audit, that it shall not have been entitled to the full amount of any refund reimbursed to such Credit Party as aforesaid or that its net income
taxes shall not have been reduced by a credit or deduction for the full amount reimbursed to such Credit Party as aforesaid, such Credit Party, upon request of such Lender, shall promptly pay to such Lender the amount so refunded to which such Lender shall not have been so entitled, or the amount by which the net income taxes of such Lender shall not have been so reduced, as the case may be.
 
(e)
                                 
Each Lender that is not (i) a citizen or resident of the United States of America, (ii) a corporation, partnership or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States of America (or any jurisdiction thereof), or (iii) an estate or trust that is subject to federal income taxation regardless of the source of its income (any such Person, a "Non-U.S. Lender") shall deliver to Borrower and Agent two copies of either U.S. Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or Form W-8ECI, or, in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender claiming exemption from U.S. federal withholding tax under Section 871(h) or 881(c) of the Code with respect to payments of "portfolio interest", a statement with respect to such interest and a Form W-8BEN, or any subsequent versions thereof or successors thereto, properly completed and duly executed by such Non-U.S. Lender claiming complete exemption from, or a reduced rate of, U.S. federal withholding tax on all payments by Credit Parties under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.  Such forms shall be delivered by each Non-U.S. Lender on or before the date it becomes a party to this Agreement or such other Loan Document.  In addition, each Non-U.S. Lender shall deliver such forms or appropriate replacements promptly upon the obsolescence or invalidity of any form previously delivered by such Non-U.S. Lender.  Each Non-U.S. Lender shall promptly notify Borrower at any time it determines that such Lender is no longer in a position to provide any previously delivered certificate to Borrower (or any other form of certification adopted by the U.S. taxing authorities for such purpose).  Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection (e), a Non-U.S. Lender shall not be required to deliver any form pursuant to this subsection (e) that such Non-U.S. Lender is not legally able to deliver.
 
(f)
                                   
The agreements in this Section 3.2 shall survive the termination of the Loan Documents and the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
 
(g)
                                
For any period with respect to which a Non-U.S. Lender has failed to provide Borrower with the appropriate form, statement or other document described in subsection (e) above (other than if such failure is due to a change in law, or in the interpretation or application thereof, occuring subsequent to the date on which a form, certificate or other document originally was required to be provided, or if such form otherwise is not required under subsection (e) above), such Non-U.S. Lender shall not be entitled to indemnification under Section 3.2(a), (b) or (c) with respect to any additional Taxes imposed by the United States by reason of such failure.
 
Section 3.3.  .  Borrower agrees to indemnify each Lender, promptly after receipt of a written request therefor, and to hold each Lender harmless from, any loss or expense that such Lender may sustain or incur as a consequence of (a) default by Borrower in making a borrowing of, conversion into or continuation of Eurodollar Loans after Borrower has given a notice requesting the same in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, (b) default by Borrower in making any prepayment of or conversion from Eurodollar Loans after Borrower has given a notice thereof in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, (c) the making of a
Funding Losses
prepayment of a Eurodollar Loan on a day that is not the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto, or (d) any conversion of a Eurodollar Loan to a Base Rate Loan pursuant to Section 3.4 hereof on a day that is not the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto.  Such indemnification shall be in an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest that would have accrued on the amounts so prepaid, or not so borrowed, converted or continued, for the period from the date of such prepayment or of such failure to borrow, convert or continue to the last day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, the Interest Period that would have commenced on the date of such failure) at the applicable rate of interest for such Loans provided for herein (excluding, however, the Applicable Margin included therein, if any) over (ii) the amount of interest (as reasonably determined by such Lender) that would have accrued to such Lender on such amount by placing such amount on deposit for a comparable period with leading banks in the appropriate London interbank market.  A certificate as to any amounts payable pursuant to this Section 3.3 submitted to Borrower (with a copy to Agent) by any Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error.  The obligations of Borrower pursuant to this Section 3.3 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Loans and all other amounts payable hereunder.
 
Section 3.4.  .
Eurodollar Rate Lending Unlawful; Inability to Determine Rate
 
(a)
                                 
If any Lender shall determine that, after the Closing Date, (i) the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law makes it unlawful, or (ii) any Governmental Authority asserts that it is unlawful, for such Lender to make or continue any Loan as, or to convert (if permitted pursuant to this Agreement) any Loan into, a Eurodollar Loan, the obligations of such Lender to make, continue or convert any such Eurodollar Loan shall, upon such determination, be suspended until such Lender shall notify Agent that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist, and all outstanding Eurodollar Loans payable to such Lender shall automatically convert (if conversion is permitted under this Agreement) into a Base Rate Loan, or be repaid (if no conversion is permitted) at the end of the then current Interest Periods with respect thereto or sooner, if required by law or such assertion.
 
(b)
                                
If Agent or the Required Lenders determine that for any reason adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Loan, or that the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to the Lenders of funding such Loan, Agent will promptly so notify Borrower and each Lender.  Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain such Eurodollar Loan shall be suspended until Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice.  Upon receipt of such notice, Borrower may revoke any pending request for a borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of such Eurodollar Loan or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a borrowing of a Base Rate Loan in the amount specified therein.
Section 4.1.  .  The obligation of the Lenders, the Fronting Lender and the Swing Line Lender to participate in any Credit Event (other than (a) the conversion of a Base Rate Loan to a Eurodollar Loan, (b) the conversion of a Eurodollar Loan to a Base Rate Loan, (c) the continuation of a Eurodollar Loan on any Interest Adjustment Date, (d) the prepayment of a Eurodollar Loan prior to the end of an Interest Period (subject to any amount payable under Article III hereof) and the borrowing on the same day of a Base Rate Loan for the same amount, and (e) the payment of a Swing Loan and the borrowing on the same day of a Base Rate Loan or Eurodollar Loan for the same amount) shall be conditioned, in the case of each such Credit Event, upon the following:
Conditions to Each Credit Event
 
(i)
                                    
Borrower shall have submitted a Notice of Loan (or with respect to a Letter of Credit, complied with the provisions of Section 2.2(b) hereof) and otherwise complied with Section 2.5 hereof;
 
(ii)
                                 
no Default or Event of Default shall then exist or immediately after such Credit Event would exist; and
 
(iii)
                              
each of the representations and warranties contained in Article VI hereof shall be true in all material respects as if made on and as of the date of such Credit Event, except to the extent that any thereof expressly relate to an earlier date.
 
Each request by Borrower for a Credit Event shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by Borrower as of the date of such request as to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent specified in subsections (ii) and (iii) above.
 
Section 4.2.  .  The obligation of the Lenders, the Fronting Lender and the Swing Line Lender to participate in the first Credit Event is subject to Borrower satisfying each of the following conditions prior to or concurrently with such Credit Event:
Conditions to the First Credit Event
 
(a)
                                 
Notes
.  Borrower shall have executed and delivered to each Lender requesting a Revolving Credit Note its Revolving Credit Note and shall have executed and delivered to the Swing Line Lender the Swing Line Note.
 
(b)
                                
Guaranties of Payment
.  Each Guarantor of Payment shall have executed and delivered to Agent a Guaranty of Payment.
 
(c)
                                 
Officer's Certificate, Resolutions, Organizational Documents
.  Each Credit Party shall have delivered to Agent an officer's certificate (or comparable domestic or foreign documents) certifying the names of the officers of such Credit Party authorized to sign the Loan Documents, together with the true signatures of such officers and certified copies of (i) the resolutions of the board of directors (or comparable domestic or foreign documents) of such Credit Party evidencing approval of the execution and delivery of the Loan Documents and the
execution of other Related Writings to which such Credit Party is a party, and (ii) the Organizational Documents of such Credit Party.
 
(d)
                                
Good Standing and Full Force and Effect Certificates
.  Borrower shall have delivered to Agent a good standing certificate or full force and effect certificate, as the case may be, for each Credit Party, issued on or about the Closing Date by the Secretary of State in the state or states where such Credit Party is incorporated or formed.
 
(e)
                                 
Legal Opinion
.  Borrower shall have delivered to Agent an opinion of counsel for Parent, Borrower and each Significant Subsidiary, in form and substance satisfactory to Agent and the Lenders.
 
(f)
                                   
Agent Fee Letter, Closing Fee Letter and Other Fees
.  Borrower shall have (i) executed and delivered to Agent the Agent Fee Letter and paid the fees stated therein, (ii) executed and delivered to Agent, for delivery to BOCM, the BOCM Fee Letter and paid the fees stated therein, (iii) executed and delivered to Agent the Closing Fee Letter and paid to Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, the fees stated therein, and (iv) paid all legal fees and expenses of Agent for which Borrower has been invoiced in connection with the preparation and negotiation of the Loan Documents.
 
(g)
                                
Existing Credit Agreement
.  Borrower shall have terminated (i) the Three-Year Credit Agreement among Borrower, Parent, the lenders party thereto, and Bank One, NA, as agent, dated as of January 31, 2002, as amended, and (ii) the Twenty-One Month Credit Agreement among Borrower, Parent, the lenders party thereto, and Bank One, NA, as agent, dated as of April 30, 2003, as amended, which terminations shall be deemed to have occurred upon payment in full of all of the Indebtedness outstanding thereunder (other than Existing Letters of Credit or letters of credit thereunder that are collateralized in a manner acceptable to Agent) and termination of the commitments established therein.
 
(h)
                                
Closing Certificate
.  Borrower shall have delivered to Agent and the Lenders an officer's certificate certifying that, as of the Closing Date, (i) no Default or Event of Default exists nor immediately after the making of the first Loan or the issuance of the first Letter of Credit will exist, and (ii) each of the representations and warranties contained in Article VI hereof are true and correct as of the Closing Date.
 
(i)
                                    
Letter of Direction
.  To the extent a Loan is requested on the Closing Date, Borrower shall have delivered to Agent a letter of direction authorizing Agent, on behalf of the Lenders, to disburse the proceeds of the Loans, which includes the transfer of funds under this Agreement and wire instructions setting forth the locations to which such funds shall be sent.
 
(j)
                                    
No Material Adverse Change
.  No material adverse change, in the opinion of Agent, shall have occurred in the financial condition or operations of the Companies taken as a whole since February 29, 2004.
 
(k)
                                 
Miscellaneous
.  Borrower shall have provided to Agent and the Lenders such other items and shall have satisfied such other conditions as may be reasonably required by Agent or the Lenders.
 
Section 5.1.  .  Each Company shall (a) maintain with financially sound and reputable insurers insurance with coverage and limits as required by law and as is customary with Persons engaged in the same businesses as the Companies; and (b) within ten days of any Lender's written request, furnish to such Lender such information about such Company's insurance as that Lender may from time to time reasonably request, which information shall be prepared in form and detail satisfactory to such Lender and certified by a Financial Officer of such Company, as appropriate.
Insurance
 
Section 5.2.  .  Each Company shall pay in full (a) prior in each case to the date when penalties would attach, all taxes, assessments and governmental charges and levies (except only those so long as and to the extent that the same shall be contested in good faith by appropriate and timely proceedings and for which adequate provisions have been established in accordance with GAAP) for which it may be or become liable or to which any or all of its properties may be or become subject; and (b) all of its wage obligations to its employees in compliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C.  206-207) or any comparable provisions.
Money Obligations
 
Section 5.3.  .
Financial Statements and Information
 
(a)
                                 
Quarterly Financials
.  Borrower shall deliver to Agent, within forty-five (45) days after the end of each of the first three quarter-annual periods of each fiscal year of Parent, balance sheets of the Companies as of the end of such period and statements of income (loss), stockholders' equity and cash flow for the quarter and fiscal year to date periods, all prepared on a Consolidated basis, in accordance with GAAP, and in form and detail satisfactory to Agent and the Lenders and certified by a Financial Officer of Parent.
 
(b)
                                
Annual Audit Report
.  Borrower shall deliver to Agent, within ninety (90) days after the end of each fiscal year of Parent, an annual audit report of the Companies for that year prepared on a Consolidated and condensed consolidating basis (provided that consolidating statements need not be certified by an independent public accountant), in accordance with GAAP, and in form and detail satisfactory to Agent and the Lenders and certified by an independent public accountant satisfactory to Agent, which report shall include balance sheets and statements of income (loss), stockholders' equity and cash-flow for that period.
 
(c)
                                 
Compliance Certificate
. 
Borrower shall deliver to Agent and the Lenders, concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements set forth in subsections (a) and (b) above, a Compliance Certificate.
(d)
                                
Shareholder and SEC Documents
.  Borrower shall deliver to Agent, as soon as available, copies of all registration statements and annual and quarterly reports sent by Parent (in final form) to the SEC.
 
(f)
                                   
Financial Information of Companies
.  Borrower shall deliver to Agent and the Lenders, within ten days of the written request of Agent or any Lender, such other information about the financial condition, properties and operations of any Company as Agent or such Lender may from time to time reasonably request, which information shall be submitted in form and detail satisfactory to Agent or such Lender and certified by a Financial Officer of the Company in question, as appropriate.
 
Section 5.4.  .  Each Company shall at all times maintain true and complete records and books of account, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, appropriate provisions for possible losses and liabilities, all in accordance with GAAP, and at all reasonable times (during normal business hours and upon notice to such Company) permit Agent, or any representative of Agent, to examine the books and records of such Company, as requested, and to make excerpts therefrom and transcripts thereof.
Financial Records
 
Section 5.5.  .  Except as otherwise permitted pursuant to Section 5.12 hereof, each Credit Party shall preserve and maintain at all times its existence, and its rights and franchises necessary for its business.
Franchises; Change in Business
 
Section 5.6.  . 
ERISA Compliance
No Company shall incur any material accumulated funding deficiency within the meaning of ERISA, or any material liability to the PBGC, established thereunder in connection with any ERISA Plan.  Borrower shall furnish to the Lenders (a) as soon as possible and in any event within thirty (30) days after any Company knows or has reason to know that any Reportable Event with respect to any ERISA Plan has occurred, a statement of a Financial Officer of such Company, setting forth details as to such Reportable Event and the action that such Company proposes to take with respect thereto, together with a copy of the notice of such Reportable Event given to the PBGC if a copy of such notice is available to such Company, and (b) promptly after receipt thereof a copy of any notice such Company, or any member of the Controlled Group may receive from the PBGC or the Internal Revenue Service with respect to any ERISA Plan administered by such Company; provided, that this latter clause shall not apply to notices of general application promulgated by the PBGC or the Internal Revenue Service.  Borrower shall promptly notify the Lenders of any material taxes assessed, proposed to be assessed or that Borrower has reason to believe may be assessed against a Company by the Internal Revenue Service with respect to any ERISA Plan.  As used in this Section 5.6, "material" means the measure of a matter of significance that shall be determined as being an amount equal to five percent (5%) of Consolidated Net Worth.  As soon as practicable, and in any event within thirty (30) days, after any Company shall become aware that an ERISA Event shall have occurred, such Company shall provide Agent with notice of such ERISA Event with a certificate by a Financial Officer of such Company setting forth the details of the event and the action such Company or another Controlled Group member proposes to take with respect thereto.  Borrower shall, at the request of Agent or any Lender after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, deliver or cause to be delivered to
Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, true and correct copies of any documents relating to the ERISA Plan of any Company.
 
Section 5.7.  .
Financial Covenants
 
(a)
                                 
Capitalization Ratio
.  The Companies shall not suffer or permit at any time the Capitalization Ratio to exceed 0.40 to 1.00.
 
(b)
                                
Interest Coverage Ratio
.  The Companies shall not suffer or permit at any time the Interest Coverage Ratio to be less than 3.00 to 1.00.
 
Section 5.8.  .  No Company (other than Parent, Borrower or a Guarantor of Payment) shall create, incur or have outstanding any Indebtedness of any kind; provided that this Section 5.8 shall not apply to the following:
Borrowing
 
(a)
                                 
the Loans, the Letters of Credit or any other Indebtedness under this Agreement;
 
(b)
                                
in addition to other Indebtedness permitted to be incurred pursuant to this Section 5.8, the Indebtedness existing on the Closing Date as set forth in hereto (and any extension, renewal or refinancing thereof so long as the principal amount thereof shall not be increased after the Closing Date);
Schedule 5.8
 
(c)
                                 
Indebtedness incurred or assumed in connection with an Acquisition permitted pursuant to Section 5.13 hereof, so long as such Indebtedness existed at the time such Acquisition was consummated and was not created in contemplation of, in connection with, or in the consummation of such Acquisition (and any extension, renewal or refinancing thereof so long as the principal amount thereof shall not be increased);
 
(d)
                                
Indebtedness arising from (i) the endorsement of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection or similar transactions in the ordinary course of business, or (ii) the honoring of a bank or other financial institution of a check, draft or similar instrument inadvertently (except in the case of daylight overdrafts) drawn against insufficient funds in the ordinary course of business; or
 
(e)
                                 
other Indebtedness not in excess of the aggregate amount at any time outstanding, for all of the Companies, of twenty-five percent (25%) of Consolidated Net Worth.
 
Section 5.9.  .  No Company shall create, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property or assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired; provided that this Section shall not apply to the following:
Liens
 
(a)
                                 
Liens for taxes not yet due or that are being actively contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves shall have been established in accordance with GAAP;
(b)
                                
other statutory Liens incidental to the conduct of its business or the ownership of its property and assets that (i) were not incurred in connection with the borrowing of money or the obtaining of advances or credit, and (ii) do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of its property or assets or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of its business;
 
(c)
                                 
easements or other minor defects or irregularities in title of real property not interfering in any material respect with the use of such property in the business of any Company;
 
(d)
                                
any Lien granted to Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders;
 
(e)
                                 
the Liens existing on the Closing Date as set forth in hereto and replacements, extensions, renewals, refundings or refinancings thereof, but only to the extent that the amount of debt secured thereby shall not be increased; or
Schedule 5.9
 
(f)
                                   
any other Liens securing Indebtedness of the Companies not in excess of, for all of the Companies, twenty-five percent (25%) of Consolidated Net Worth.
 
Section 5.10.  .  No Company shall take any action that would result in any non-compliance of the Loans or Letters of Credit with Regulations T, U or X, or any other applicable regulation, of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Regulations T, U and X
 
Section 5.11.  .  No Company shall, without the prior written consent of the Required Lenders, (a) create, acquire or hold any Subsidiary, (b) make or hold any investment in any stocks, bonds or securities of any kind, (c) be or become a party to any joint venture or other partnership, or (d) make or keep outstanding any advance or loan to any Person; provided that this Section 5.11 shall not apply to the following:
Investments and Loans
 
(i)
                                    
any endorsement of a check or other medium of payment for deposit or collection through normal banking channels or similar transaction in the normal course of business;
 
(ii)
                                 
any investment in Cash Equivalents;
 
(iii)
                              
the holding of each of the Subsidiaries listed on hereto and investments therein, and the creation, acquisition and holding of and the making of investments in any new Subsidiary after the Closing Date so long as such new Subsidiary shall have been created, acquired or held in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement;
Schedule 6.1
 
(iv)
                             
any other investments or loans in an aggregate amount not to exceed, for all of the Companies in any fiscal year, twenty-five percent (25%) of Consolidated Net Worth as of the beginning of such fiscal year; or
 
(v)
                                
Acquisitions may be effected in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.13 hereof.
Section 5.12.  .  No Company shall merge, amalgamate or consolidate with any other Person, or sell, lease or transfer or otherwise dispose of any assets to any Person (other than Borrower or any other Credit Party) other than in the ordinary course of business, except that, if no Default or Event of Default shall then exist or immediately thereafter shall begin to exist:
Merger and Sale of Assets
 
(a)
                                 
any Subsidiary of Parent (other than Borrower or a Guarantor of Payment) may merge with or sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its assets to any Company;
 
(b)
                                
any Subsidiary of Borrower may merge with or sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its assets to any other Subsidiary of Borrower;
 
(c)
                                 
any Company may sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any assets that are obsolete or no longer useful in such Company's business;
 
(d)
                                
any Company may sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose (whether in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of any of its assets to any other Person, so long as the aggregate fair market value of the assets being sold, leased, transferred or otherwise disposed of, in the aggregate for all Companies, shall not constitute (i) during the twelve (12) month period ending with the month prior to the month in which any such sale, lease, transfer or disposition, a Substantial Portion as determined under subparts (a) and (b) of the definition of Substantial Portion, or (ii) on or after the date of this Agreement, a Substantial Portion as determined under subparts (c) and (d) of the definition of Substantial Portion; and
 
(e)
                                 
Acquisitions may be effected in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.13 hereof.
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Section 5.12 to the contrary, (A) no sale, lease, transfer or other disposition of assets by a Company may be effectuated (other than in the ordinary course or pursuant to subsections (a) or (b) above) if any Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, and (B) all sales, leases, transfers and other dispositions of assets at any time shall be for not materially less than the fair market value of such assets as determined in good faith by Parent.
 
Section 5.13.  .  No Company shall effect an Acquisition if the aggregate Consideration paid for such Acquisition exceeds twenty-five percent (25%) of Consolidated Net Worth, as determined for the most recently completed fiscal quarter of Parent, unless, prior to consummation of such Acquisition, Borrower shall have provided to Agent a certificate of a Financial Officer showing pro forma compliance with Section 5.7 hereof after giving effect to the proposed Acquisition.
Acquisitions
 
Section 5.14.  .  Borrower shall cause a Financial Officer to promptly notify Agent whenever any Default or Event of Default may occur hereunder or any representation or warranty made in Article VI hereof or elsewhere in this Agreement or in any other Loan Document may for any reason cease in any material respect to be true and complete.
Notice
Section 5.15.  . 
Environmental Compliance
Each Company shall comply in all material respects with any and all Environmental Laws including, without limitation, all Environmental Laws in jurisdictions in which such Company owns or operates a facility or site, arranges for disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, solid waste or other wastes, accepts for transport any hazardous substances, solid waste or other wastes or holds any interest in real property or otherwise.  Borrower shall furnish to the Lenders, promptly after receipt thereof, a copy of any notice such Company may receive from any Governmental Authority, private Person or otherwise that any material litigation or proceeding pertaining to any environmental, health or safety matter has been filed or is threatened against such Company, any real property in which such Company holds any interest or any past or present operation of such Company.  No Company shall allow the release or disposal of hazardous waste, solid waste or other wastes on, under or to any real property in which any Company holds any interest or performs any of its operations, in violation of any Environmental Law except to the extent such release or disposal does not or is not reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  As used in this Section, "litigation or proceeding" means any demand, claim, notice, suit, suit in equity action, administrative action, investigation or inquiry whether brought by any Governmental Authority, private Person or otherwise.  Borrower shall defend, indemnify and hold Agent and the Lenders harmless against all costs, expenses, claims, damages, penalties and liabilities of every kind or nature whatsoever (including attorneys' fees) arising out of or resulting from the noncompliance of any Company with any Environmental Law.  Such indemnification shall survive any termination of this Agreement.
 
Section 5.16.  . 
Affiliate Transactions
No Company shall, directly or indirectly, enter into or permit to exist any transaction (including, without limitation, the purchase, sale, lease or exchange of any property or the rendering of any service) with any Affiliate (other than a Company that is a Credit Party) on terms that shall be less favorable to such Company than those that might be obtained at the time in a transaction with a non-Affiliate; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not prohibit the payment of customary and reasonable directors' fees to directors who are not employees of a Company or an Affiliate.
 
Section 5.17.  .  Borrower's use of the proceeds of the Commitment shall be solely for working capital and other general corporate purposes of Parent and its Subsidiaries and for Acquisitions and the repayment of existing Indebtedness.
Use of Proceeds
 
Section 5.18.  .
Subsidiary Guaranties
 
(a)
                                 
Provision of Subsidiary Guaranties
.  Each Significant Subsidiary created, acquired or held subsequent to the Closing Date, shall promptly execute and deliver to Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, a Guaranty of Payment of all of the Obligations, such agreement to be in the form of hereto, along with any such other supporting documentation, corporate governance and authorization documents, and an opinion of counsel as may be deemed reasonably necessary or advisable by Agent.
Exhibit H
 
(b)
                                
Release of Non-Significant Subsidiary Guaranties
.  Borrower may from time to time request that certain Guarantors of Payment (other than Parent) be released from their respective Guaranties of Payment (and Agent is authorized by the Lenders to release such
Guarantors of Payment from their Guaranty of Payment); provided that, as of the date of such release, such Subsidiary does not constitute a Significant Subsidiary and no Default or Event of Default shall exist or be caused thereby.  In connection with granting any such release, Agent shall be entitled to rely on a representation by Borrower that the conditions to such release are satisfied.
 
(c)
                                 
Release of Guarantor Upon Sale or Disposition
.  Upon the sale or disposition permitted under this Agreement of a Guarantor of Payment other than Parent (by merger or otherwise) to a Person that is not an Affiliate, and which sale or disposition is otherwise in compliance with the terms of this Agreement, Agent shall release such Guarantor of Payment from its Guaranty of Payment upon the written request of Borrower and, if required by Agent, a certificate of a Financial Officer and an opinion of counsel to the effect that the transaction giving rise to the release of such Guaranty of Payment was made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
 
(d)
                                
Guarantor of Senior Note Indebtedness
.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Borrower shall cause to be executed and delivered to Agent and the Lenders, Guaranties of Payment of each Subsidiary of Parent (other than Borrower or an existing Guarantor of Payment) that is liable at any time, whether as a direct borrower, a Guarantor or otherwise, under the Senior Note Indebtedness, with such Guaranties of Payment to be delivered simultaneously with such Subsidiary becoming so liable under the Senior Note Indebtedness; provided, however, that (a) in the event that any such Subsidiary is only liable for a portion of the Senior Note Indebtedness, the Guaranty of Payment delivered by such Subsidiary shall be limited to an undivided percentage of the Indebtedness created under this Agreement equal to the proportion that the liability of such Subsidiary in respect of the Senior Note Indebtedness bears to the entire amount of the Senior Note Indebtedness; and (b) the foregoing provisions shall not limit the right of Parent to request a release from any such Guaranty of Payment in the event that such Subsidiary ceases to be obligated in respect of the Senior Note Indebtedness or the obligations of the Lenders to grant such a release, in each case in accordance with the terms hereof.
 
(e)
                                 
Additions to Guarantors
.  Borrower may, in its sole and absolute discretion, designate any Subsidiary of Parent (that is not already a Guarantor or Payment) to become a Guarantor of Payment hereunder by executing and delivering a Guaranty of Payment to Agent.
 
(f)
                                   
Deliveries
.  In connection with the delivery of any Guaranty of Payment under this Section 5.18, Borrower shall provide such other documentation to Agent, including, without limitation, one or more opinions of counsel satisfactory to Agent, corporate documents and resolutions, which, in the reasonable opinion of Agent, is necessary or advisable in connection therewith.
 
(g)
                                
Effectiveness of Release
.  No release of a Guarantor of Payment under this Section 5.18 shall be effective until such release has been given in writing by Agent.  Any Guarantor of Payment not so released in writing shall remain liable for the full amount of the Obligations.
Section 5.19.  .  Except as set forth in this Agreement, the Companies shall not directly or indirectly, create or otherwise cause or suffer to exist or become effective any encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Subsidiary to (a) make, directly or indirectly, any Capital Distribution to Borrower, (b) make, directly or indirectly, loans or advances or capital contributions to Borrower or (c) transfer, directly or indirectly, any of the properties or assets of such Subsidiary to Borrower; except for such encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of (i) applicable law, (ii) customary non-assignment provisions in leases or other agreements entered in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices, (iii) customary restrictions in security agreements or mortgages securing Indebtedness or capital leases, of a Company to the extent such restrictions shall only restrict the transfer of the property subject to such security agreement, mortgage or lease, (iv) restrictions with respect to a Subsidiary imposed pursuant to an agreement which has been entered into in connection with the disposition of all or substantially all of the assets or capital stock of such Subsidiary, or (v) any restrictions with respect to any assets subject to a Lien permitted under Section 5.9 hereof.
Restrictive Agreements
 
Section 5.20.  . 
Pari Passu Ranking
The Obligations shall, and Borrower shall take all necessary action to ensure that the Obligations shall, at all times, rank at least pari passu in right of payment with all other senior unsecured Indebtedness of Parent and Borrower.
 
Section 5.21.  .  No Company shall amend its Organizational Documents to amend its Organizational Documents in any manner which is reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, without prior notice to Agent and the Lenders.
Amendment of Organizational Documents
 
Section 6.1.  .  Each Company is duly organized, validly existing, and in good standing under the laws of its state or jurisdiction of incorporation or organization and is duly qualified and authorized to do business and is in good standing as a foreign entity in each jurisdiction where the character of its property or business activities makes such qualification necessary, except where a failure to qualify will not result in a Material Adverse Effect.  Each Foreign Subsidiary is validly existing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization.  hereto sets forth, as of the Closing Date, each Subsidiary of Parent (and whether such Subsidiary is a Dormant Subsidiary or a Significant Subsidiary), its state of formation, its relationship to Parent, including the percentage of each class of stock owned by a Company, each Person that owns the stock or other equity interest of each Company.
Corporate Existence; Subsidiaries; Foreign Qualification
Schedule 6.1
 
Section 6.2.  .  Each Credit Party has the right and power and is duly authorized and empowered to enter into, execute and deliver the Loan Documents to which it is a party and to perform and observe the provisions of the Loan Documents.  The Loan Documents to which each Credit Party is a party have been duly authorized and approved by such Credit Party's board of directors or other governing body, as applicable, and are the valid and binding obligations of such Credit Party, enforceable against such Credit Party in accordance with their
Corporate Authority
respective terms, except as enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy or insolvency laws or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally or by general principles of equity.  The execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents will not conflict with nor result in any breach in any of the provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation of any Lien (other than Liens permitted under Section 5.9 hereof) upon any assets or property of any Credit Party under the provisions of, such Credit Party's Organizational Documents or any agreement to which a Credit Party is a party or by which such Credit Party or its property is bound.
 
Section 6.3.  .  Each Company:
Compliance with Laws and Contracts
 
(a)
                                 
holds permits, certificates, licenses, orders, registrations, franchises, authorizations, and other approvals from any Governmental Authority necessary for the conduct of its business and is in compliance with all applicable laws relating thereto;
 
(b)
                                
is in compliance with all federal, state, local, or foreign applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and orders including, without limitation, those relating to environmental protection, occupational safety and health, and equal employment practices; and
 
(c)
                                 
is not in violation of or in default under any agreement to which it is a party or by which its assets are subject or bound;
 
except where the failure to hold such permits, certificates, licenses, orders, registrations, franchises, authorizations or approvals, or where any such non-compliance or violation, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 6.4.  .  As of the Closing Date, except as disclosed on hereto, there are (a) no lawsuits, actions, investigations, or other proceedings pending or threatened against any Company, or in respect of which any Company may have any liability, in any court or before any Governmental Authority, arbitration board, or other tribunal, (b) no orders, writs, injunctions, judgments, or decrees of any court or government agency or instrumentality to which any Company is a party or by which the property or assets of any Company are bound, and (c) no grievances, disputes, or controversies outstanding with any union or other organization of the employees of any Company, or threats of work stoppage, strike, or pending demands for collective bargaining, in each case, which would be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation and Administrative Proceedings
Schedule 6.4
 
Section 6.5.  .  Each Company has good title to and ownership of all property it purports to own, which property is free and clear of all Liens, except those permitted under Section 5.9 hereof.
Title to Assets
 
Section 6.6.  .  All federal, state and local tax returns and other reports required by law to be filed in respect of the income, business, properties and employees of each Company have been filed and all taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges that are due and payable have been paid, except as otherwise permitted herein or where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to cause or result in a Material Adverse Effect.  The
Tax Returns
provision for taxes on the books of each Company is adequate for all years not closed by applicable statutes and for the current fiscal year.
 
Section 6.7.  .  As of the Closing Date, based upon a review of the effect of Environmental Laws on the business of Parent and its Subsidiaries Parent has concluded that there have been no violations of Environmental Laws, and there are no reasonably foreseeable violations of Environmental Laws, that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  As of the Closing Date, neither Parent nor any Subsidiary has received any notice to the effect that its operations are not in material compliance with any of the requirements of applicable Environmental Laws or are the subject of any federal or state investigation evaluating whether any remedial action is needed to respond to a release of any toxic or hazardous waste or substance into the environment, which non-compliance or remedial action could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Environmental Matters
 
Section 6.8.  .  There exists no actual, pending, or, to Borrower's knowledge, any threatened termination, cancellation or limitation of, or any modification or change in the business relationship of any Company and any customer or supplier, or any group of customers or suppliers, whose purchases or supplies, individually or in the aggregate, are material to the business of any Company, and there exists no present condition or state of facts or circumstances that would have a Material Adverse Effect or prevent a Company from conducting such business or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in substantially the same manner in which it was previously conducted.
Continued Business
 
Section 6.9.  .  No ERISA Event is expected to occur with respect to an ERISA Plan.  Full payment has been made of all amounts that a Controlled Group member is required, under applicable law or under the governing documents, to have paid as a contribution to or a benefit under each ERISA Plan.  The liability of each Controlled Group member with respect to each ERISA Plan has been funded based upon reasonable and proper actuarial assumptions, has been insured, or has been fully reserved for on its financial statements other than any failure to fund or failure to insure or reserve which is not material.  No changes have occurred or are expected to occur that would cause a material increase in the cost of providing benefits under the ERISA Plan.  With respect to each ERISA Plan that is intended to be qualified under Code Section 401(a), (a) the ERISA Plan and any associated trust operationally comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of Code Section 401(a); (b) the ERISA Plan and any associated trust have been amended to comply in all material respects with all such requirements as currently in effect, other than those requirements for which a retroactive amendment can be made within the "remedial amendment period" available under Code Section 401(b) (as extended under Treasury Regulations and other Treasury pronouncements upon which taxpayers may rely); (c) the ERISA Plan and any associated trust have received a favorable determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service stating that the ERISA Plan qualifies under Code Section 401(a), that the associated trust qualifies under Code Section 501(a) and, if applicable, that any cash or deferred arrangement under the ERISA Plan qualifies under Code Section 401(k), unless the ERISA Plan was first adopted at a time for which the above-described "remedial amendment period" has not yet expired or an application for a favorable determination is pending; (d) the ERISA Plan currently satisfies the requirements of Code Section 410(b), subject to any retroactive amendment that may be made within the
Employee Benefits Plans
 
above-described "remedial amendment period"; and (e) no contribution made to the ERISA Plan is subject to an excise tax under Code Section 4972.  With respect to any Pension Plan, the "accumulated benefit obligation" of Controlled Group members with respect to the Pension Plan (as determined in accordance with Statement of Accounting Standards No. 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions") does not exceed the fair market value of Pension Plan assets by any amount which would be material.  As used in this Section 6.9 "material" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 5.6 hereof.
 
Section 6.10.  .  No consent, approval or authorization of, or filing, registration or qualification with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is required to be obtained or completed by any Company in connection with the execution, delivery or performance of any of the Loan Documents, that has not already been obtained or completed.
Consents or Approvals
 
Section 6.11.  .  Borrower has received consideration that is the reasonable equivalent value of the obligations and liabilities that Borrower has incurred to Agent and the Lenders.  Borrower is not insolvent as defined in any applicable state, federal or relevant foreign statute, nor will Borrower be rendered insolvent by the execution and delivery of the Loan Documents to Agent and the Lenders.  Borrower is not engaged or about to engage in any business or transaction for which the assets retained by it are or will be an unreasonably small amount of capital, taking into consideration the obligations to Agent and the Lenders incurred hereunder.  Borrower does not intend to, nor does it believe that it will, incur debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature.
Solvency
 
Section 6.12.  .  The audited Consolidated financial statements of Parent for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2003, and the unaudited Consolidated financial statements of Parent for the fiscal quarter ended February 29, 2004, furnished to Agent and the Lenders, are true and complete in all material respects, have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, and fairly present the financial condition of the Companies as of the dates of such financial statements and the results of their operations for the periods then ending.  As of the Closing Date, since the dates of such statements, there has been no material adverse change in the financial condition, properties or business of any Company or any change in accounting procedures of any Company except as required by GAAP.
Financial Statements
 
Section 6.13.  .  Neither Parent nor any of its Subsidiaries extends or maintains, in the ordinary course of business, credit for the purpose, whether immediate, incidental, or ultimate, of buying or carrying margin stock, and no part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used for the purpose, whether immediate, incidental, or ultimate, of buying or carrying any such margin stock or maintaining or extending credit to others for such purpose in any way that would violate Regulation T, U or X.  After applying the proceeds of each Loan, margin stock will not constitute more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the value of the assets (either of Borrower alone or of Parent and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis) that are subject to any provisions of any Loan Document that may cause the Loans to be deemed secured, directly or indirectly, by margin stock.  Parent and its Subsidiaries are in compliance with Section 5.17 hereof.
Regulations T, U and X
 
Section 6.14.  .  Neither Parent nor any Subsidiary is a party to any agreement or instrument or subject to any charter or other corporate restriction that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither Parent nor any Subsidiary is in default in the performance, observance or fulfillment of any of the obligations, covenants or conditions contained in (a) any agreement to which it is a party, which default could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or (b) any Material Indebtedness Agreement.
Material Agreements
 
Section 6.15.  .  Each Company owns or has the right to use all of the patents, patent applications, industrial designs, trademarks, service marks, copyrights, licenses, and rights with respect to the foregoing necessary for the conduct of its business without any known conflict with the rights of others, except to the extent any such conflict would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Intellectual Property
 
Section 6.16.  .  Each Company maintains with financially sound and reputable insurers insurance with coverage and limits as required by law and as is customary with Persons engaged in the same businesses as the Companies.
Insurance
 
Section 6.17.  .  Neither the Loan Documents nor any written statement made by any Company in connection with any of the Loan Documents contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits a material fact necessary to make the statements contained therein or in the Loan Documents not misleading in light of the context in which such statements are made.  After due inquiry by Borrower, there is no known fact that any Company has not disclosed to Agent and the Lenders that has or is likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Accurate and Complete Statements
 
Section 6.18.  .  No Company is (a) an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or (b) subject to regulation under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 or the Federal Power Act, each as amended, or any foreign, federal, state or local statute or regulation limiting its ability to incur Indebtedness.
Investment Company; Holding Company
 
Section 6.19.  .  No Default or Event of Default exists hereunder, nor will any begin to exist immediately after the execution and delivery hereof.
Defaults
 
Each of the following shall constitute an Event of Default hereunder:
 
Section 7.1.  .  If (a) the interest on any Loan or any facility, utilization or other fee shall not be paid in full punctually when due and payable or within five Business Days thereafter, or (b) the principal of any Loan or any obligation under any Letter of Credit shall not be paid in full when due and payable.
Payments
 
Section 7.2.  .  If any Company shall fail or omit to perform and observe Section 5.7, 5.8, 5.9, 5.11, 5.12 or 5.13 hereof.
Special Covenants
 
Section 7.3.  .  If any Company shall fail or omit to perform and observe any agreement or other provision (other than those referred to in Section 7.1 or 7.2 hereof) contained or referred to in this Agreement or any other Loan Document that is on the part of such Company to be complied with, and that Default shall not have been fully corrected within thirty (30) days after the earlier of (a) any Financial Officer of such Company becomes aware of the occurrence thereof, or (b) the giving of written notice thereof to Borrower by Agent or the Required Lenders that the specified Default is to be remedied.
Other Covenants
 
Section 7.4.  .  If any representation, warranty or statement made in or pursuant to this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall be false or erroneous in any material respect when made.
Representations and Warranties
 
Section 7.5.  .  If any Company shall default in the payment of principal or interest due and owing under any Material Indebtedness Agreement beyond any period of grace provided with respect thereto or in the performance or observance of any other provision, term or condition contained in such Material Indebtedness Agreement under which such obligation is created, if the effect of such default is to allow the acceleration of the maturity of such Indebtedness or to permit the holder thereof to cause such Indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity.
Cross Default
 
Section 7.6.  .  The occurrence of one or more ERISA Events that (a) the Required Lenders determine could have a Material Adverse Effect, or (b) results in a Lien on any of the material portion of the assets of any Company (as defined in Section 5.6 hereof).
ERISA Default
 
Section 7.7.  .  If any Change in Control shall occur.
Change in Control
 
Section 7.8.  .  A final judgment or order for the payment of money shall be rendered against any Company by a court of competent jurisdiction, that remains unpaid or unstayed and undischarged for a period (during which execution shall not be effectively stayed) of ninety (90) days after the date on which the right to appeal has expired, provided that the aggregate of all such judgments for all such Companies shall exceed Fifteen Million Dollars ($15,000,000).
Money Judgment
 
Section 7.9.  .  (a) the validity, binding effect or enforceability of any Material Loan Document against any Credit Party shall be contested by any Credit Party; (b) any Credit Party shall deny that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document; or (c) any Material Loan Document shall be terminated, invalidated or set aside, or be declared ineffective or inoperative or in any way cease to give or provide to Agent and the Lenders the benefits purported to be created thereby.  As used herein "Material Loan Documents" shall mean this Agreement, each Note and each Guaranty of Payment.
Validity of Loan Documents
 
Section 7.10.  .  If any Company (other than a Dormant Subsidiary) shall (a) except as permitted pursuant to Section 5.12 hereof, discontinue business, (b) generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, (c) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, (d) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, a custodian, a trustee, an
Solvency
interim trustee or liquidator of all or a substantial part of its assets, (e) be adjudicated a debtor or insolvent or have entered against it an order for relief under Title 11 of the United States Code, or under any other bankruptcy insolvency, liquidation, winding-up, corporate or similar statute or law, foreign, federal state or provincial, in any applicable jurisdiction, now or hereafter existing, as any of the foregoing may be amended from time to time, or other applicable statute for jurisdictions outside of the United States, as the case may be, (f) file a voluntary petition in bankruptcy, or have an involuntary proceeding filed against it and the same shall continue undismissed for a period of sixty (60) consecutive days from commencement of such proceeding or case, or file a petition or an answer seeking reorganization or an arrangement with creditors or seeking to take advantage of any other law (whether federal or state, or, if applicable, other jurisdiction) relating to relief of debtors, or admit (by answer, by default or otherwise) the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency or other proceeding (whether federal or state, or, if applicable, other jurisdiction) relating to relief of debtors, (g) suffer or permit to continue unstayed and in effect for sixty (60) consecutive days any judgment, decree or order entered by a court of competent jurisdiction, that approves a petition seeking its reorganization or appoints a receiver, custodian, trustee, interim trustee or liquidator of all or a substantial part of its assets, (h) have an administrative receiver appointed over the whole or substantially the whole of its assets, or (i) take any action in order thereby to effect any of the foregoing.
 
Notwithstanding any contrary provision or inference herein or elsewhere:
 
Section 8.1.  .  If any Event of Default referred to in Section 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 7.7, 7.8, or 7.9 hereof shall occur, Agent may, with the consent of the Required Lenders, and shall, at the request of the Required Lenders, give written notice to Borrower, to:
Optional Defaults
 
(a)           terminate the Commitment, if not previously terminated, and, immediately upon such election, the obligations of the Lenders, and each thereof, to make any further Loan and the obligation of the Fronting Lender to issue any Letter of Credit immediately shall be terminated; and/or
 
(b)           accelerate the maturity of all of the Obligations (if the Obligations are not already due and payable), whereupon all of the Obligations shall become and thereafter be immediately due and payable in full without any presentment or demand and without any further or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by Borrower.
 
Section 8.2.  .  If any Event of Default referred to in Section 7.10 hereof shall occur:
Automatic Defaults
 
(a)           all of the Commitment shall automatically and immediately terminate, if not previously terminated, and no Lender thereafter shall be under any obligation to grant any further Loan, nor shall the Fronting Lender be obligated to issue any Letter of Credit; and
 
(b)           the principal of and interest then outstanding on all of the Loans, and all of the other Obligations, shall thereupon become and thereafter be immediately due and payable in full (if the Obligations are not already due and payable), all without any presentment, demand or notice of any kind, which are hereby waived by Borrower.
 
Section 8.3.  .  If the maturity of the Obligations shall be accelerated pursuant to Section 8.1 or 8.2 hereof, Borrower shall immediately deposit with Agent, as security for the obligations of Borrower and any Guarantor of Payment to reimburse Agent and the Lenders for any then outstanding Letters of Credit, cash equal to the sum of the aggregate undrawn balance of any then outstanding Letters of Credit.  Agent and the Lenders are hereby authorized, at their option, to deduct any and all such amounts from any deposit balances then owing by any Lender (or any affiliate of such Lender) to or for the credit or account of any Company, as security for the obligations of Borrower and any Guarantor of Payment to reimburse Agent and the Lenders for any then outstanding Letters of Credit.
Letters of Credit
 
Section 8.4.  .  If there shall occur or exist any Event of Default referred to in Section 7.10 hereof or if the maturity of the Obligations is accelerated pursuant to Section 8.1 or 8.2 hereof, each Lender shall have the right at any time to set off against, and to appropriate and apply toward the payment of, any and all of the Obligations then owing by Borrower to such Lender (including, without limitation, any participation purchased or to be purchased pursuant to Section 2.2(b), 2.2(c) or 8.5 hereof), whether or not the same shall then have matured, any and all deposit (general or special) balances and all other indebtedness then held or owing by such Lender (including, without limitation, by branches and agencies or any affiliate of such Lender, wherever located) to or for the credit or account of Borrower or any Guarantor of Payment, all without notice to or demand upon Borrower or any other Person, all such notices and demands being hereby expressly waived by Borrower.
Offsets
 
Section 8.5.  .  Each Lender agrees with the other Lenders that if it, at any time, shall obtain any Advantage over the other Lenders or any thereof in respect of the Obligations (except as to Swing Loans and Letters of Credit prior to Agent's giving of notice to participate and except under Article III hereof), it shall purchase from the other Lenders, for cash and at par, such additional participation in the Obligations as shall be necessary to nullify the Advantage.  If any such Advantage resulting in the purchase of an additional participation as aforesaid shall be recovered in whole or in part from the Lender receiving the Advantage, each such purchase shall be rescinded, and the purchase price restored (but without interest unless the Lender receiving the Advantage is required to pay interest on the Advantage to the Person recovering the Advantage from such Lender) ratably to the extent of the recovery.  Each Lender further agrees with the other Lenders that if it at any time shall receive any payment for or on behalf of Borrower on any indebtedness owing by Borrower to that Lender (whether by realization upon security, by reason of offset of any deposit or other indebtedness, by counterclaim or cross-action or by the enforcement of any right under any Loan Document), it will apply such payment first to any and all Obligations owing by Borrower to that Lender (including, without limitation, any participation purchased or to be purchased pursuant to this Section or any other Section of this Agreement).  Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from the other Lenders or any thereof pursuant to this Section may exercise all of
Equalization Provision
 
its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender was a direct creditor of Borrower in the amount of such participation.
 
Section 8.6.  .  The remedies in this Article VIII are in addition to, not in limitation of, any other right, power, privilege, or remedy, either in law, in equity, or otherwise, to which the Lenders may be entitled.  Agent shall exercise the rights under this Article VIII and all other collection efforts on behalf of the Lenders and no Lender shall act independently with respect thereto, except as otherwise specifically set forth in this Agreement.
Other Remedies
 
The Lenders authorize KeyBank National Association and KeyBank National Association hereby agrees to act as agent for the Lenders in respect of this Agreement upon the terms and conditions set forth elsewhere in this Agreement, and upon the following terms and conditions:
 
Section 9.1.  .  Each Lender hereby irrevocably appoints and authorizes Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers hereunder as are delegated to Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  Neither Agent nor any of its affiliates, directors, officers, attorneys or employees shall (a) be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them hereunder or in connection herewith, except for its or their own gross negligence or willful misconduct (as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction), or be responsible in any manner to any of the Lenders for the effectiveness, enforceability, genuineness, validity or due execution of this Agreement or any other Loan Documents, (b) be under any obligation to any Lender to ascertain or to inquire as to the performance or observance or any of the terms, covenants or conditions hereof or thereof on the part of Borrower or any other Company, or the financial condition of Borrower or any other Company, or (c) be liable to any of the Companies for consequential damages resulting from any breach of contract, tort or other wrong in connection with the negotiation, documentation, administration or collection of the Loans or Letters of Credit or any of the Loan Documents.
Appointment and Authorization
 
Section 9.2.  .  Agent may treat the payee of any Note as the holder thereof (or, if there is no Note, the holder of the interest as reflected on the books and records of Agent) until written notice of transfer shall have been filed with it, signed by such payee and in form satisfactory to Agent.
Note Holders
 
Section 9.3.  .  Agent may consult with legal counsel selected by it and shall not be liable for any action taken or suffered in good faith by it in accordance with the opinion of such counsel.
Consultation With Counsel
 
Section 9.4.  .  Agent shall not be under any duty to examine into or pass upon the validity, effectiveness, genuineness or value of any Loan Document or any other Related Writing furnished pursuant hereto or in connection herewith or the value of any collateral
Documents
obtained hereunder, and Agent shall be entitled to assume that the same are valid, effective and genuine and what they purport to be.
 
Section 9.5.  .  With respect to the Loans, Agent shall have the same rights and powers hereunder as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not Agent, and Agent and its affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with any Company or any Affiliate.
Agent and Affiliates
 
Section 9.6.  .  It is expressly understood and agreed that Agent shall be entitled to assume that no Default or Event of Default has occurred, unless Agent has been notified by a Lender in writing that such Lender believes that a Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and specifying the nature thereof or has been notified by Borrower pursuant to Section 5.14 hereof.
Knowledge of Default
 
Section 9.7.  .  Subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, so long as Agent shall be entitled, pursuant to Section 9.6 hereof, to assume that no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, Agent shall be entitled to use its discretion with respect to exercising or refraining from exercising any rights that may be vested in it by, or with respect to taking or refraining from taking any action or actions that it may be able to take under or in respect of, this Agreement.  Agent shall incur no liability under or in respect of this Agreement by acting upon any notice, certificate, warranty or other paper or instrument believed by it to be genuine or authentic or to be signed by the proper party or parties, or with respect to anything that it may do or refrain from doing in the reasonable exercise of its judgment, or that may seem to it to be necessary or desirable in the premises.
Action by Agent
 
Section 9.8.  .  In the event that Agent shall have acquired actual knowledge of any Default or Event of Default, Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders and shall take such action and assert such rights under this Agreement as the Required Lenders shall direct and Agent shall inform the other Lenders in writing of the action taken.  Agent may take such action and assert such rights as it deems to be advisable, in its discretion, for the protection of the interests of the holders of the Obligations.
Notice of Default
 
Section 9.9.  .  The Lenders agree to indemnify Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by Borrower) ratably, according to their respective Commitment Percentages, from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses (including attorneys' fees) or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against Agent in its capacity as agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any Loan Document or any action taken or omitted by Agent with respect to this Agreement or any Loan Document, provided that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses (including attorneys' fees) or disbursements resulting from Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, or from any action taken or omitted by Agent in any capacity other than as agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Indemnification of Agent
 
Section 9.10.  .  Agent may resign as agent hereunder by giving not fewer than thirty (30) days prior written notice to Borrower and the Lenders.  If Agent shall resign under this Agreement, then either (a) the Required Lenders shall appoint from among the Lenders a successor agent for the Lenders (with the consent of Borrower so long as an Event of Default has not occurred and which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), or (b) if a successor agent shall not be so appointed and approved within the thirty (30) day period following Agent's notice to the Lenders of its resignation, then Agent shall appoint a successor agent that shall serve as agent until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor agent; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any successor Agent shall be a commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof having capital and surplus of at least One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000).  Upon its appointment, such successor agent shall succeed to the rights, powers and duties as agent, and the term "Agent" shall mean such successor effective upon its appointment, and the former agent's rights, powers and duties as agent shall be terminated without any other or further act or deed on the part of such former agent or any of the parties to this Agreement.
Successor Agent
 
Section 9.11.  .  As used in this Agreement, the term "Agent" shall only include Agent.  Neither the Joint Lead Arranger nor any Syndication Agent, Co-Documentation Agent or any other agent (other than Agent) shall have any rights, obligations or responsibilities hereunder in such capacity; provided that the Joint Lead Arranger, when acting in its capacity as joint lead arranger, shall have the right to be indemnified by Borrower and the Lenders in the same manner as Agent has the right to be indemnified.
Other Agents
 
Section 10.1.  .  Each Lender, by its signature to this Agreement, acknowledges and agrees that Agent has made no representation or warranty, express or implied, with respect to the creditworthiness, financial condition, or any other condition of any Company or with respect to the statements contained in any information memorandum furnished in connection herewith or in any other oral or written communication between Agent and such Lender.  Each Lender represents that it has made and shall continue to make its own independent investigation of the creditworthiness, financial condition and affairs of the Companies in connection with the extension of credit hereunder, and agrees that Agent has no duty or responsibility, either initially or on a continuing basis, to provide any Lender with any credit or other information with respect thereto (other than such notices as may be expressly required to be given by Agent to the Lenders hereunder), whether coming into its possession before the first Credit Event hereunder or at any time or times thereafter.  Each Lender further represents that it has reviewed each of the Loan Documents.
Lenders' Independent Investigation
 
Section 10.2.  .  No omission or course of dealing on the part of Agent, any Lender or the holder of any Note in exercising any right, power or remedy hereunder or under any of the Loan Documents shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right, power or remedy preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy hereunder or under any of
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
 
the Loan Documents.  The remedies herein provided are cumulative and in addition to any other rights, powers or privileges held by operation of law, by contract or otherwise.
 
Section 10.3.  .  No amendment, modification, termination, or waiver of any provision of any Loan Document nor consent to any variance therefrom, shall be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Required Lenders and, in the case of amendments or modifications, Borrower, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given.  Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, unanimous consent of the Lenders shall be required with respect to (a) any increase in the Commitment hereunder (except as specified in Section 2.9(b) hereof), (b) the extension of maturity of the Loans, the payment date of interest or principal thereunder, or the payment date of facility, utilization or other fees or amounts payable hereunder, (c) any reduction in the rate of interest on the Loans (provided that the institution of the Default Rate and a subsequent removal of the Default Rate shall not constitute a decrease in interest rate of this Section), or in any amount of principal or interest due on any Loan, or the payment of facility, utilization or other fees hereunder or any change in the manner of pro rata application of any payments made by Borrower to the Lenders hereunder, (d) any change in any percentage voting requirement, voting rights, or the Required Lenders definition in this Agreement, (e) the release of any Guarantor of Payment other than any release permitted by the terms hereof, or (f) any amendment to this Section 10.3 or Section 8.5 hereof.  Notice of amendments or consents ratified by the Lenders hereunder shall be forwarded by Agent to all of the Lenders.  Each Lender or other holder of a Note (or interest in any Loan) shall be bound by any amendment, waiver or consent obtained as authorized by this Section, regardless of its failure to agree thereto.
Amendments, Consents
 
Section 10.4.  .  All notices, requests, demands and other communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing and, if to Borrower, mailed or delivered to it, addressed to it at the address specified on the signature pages of this Agreement, if to a Lender, mailed or delivered to it, addressed to the address of such Lender specified on the signature pages of this Agreement, or, as to each party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to each of the other parties.  All notices, statements, requests, demands and other communications provided for hereunder shall be given by overnight delivery or first class mail with postage prepaid by registered or certified mail, addressed as aforesaid, or sent by facsimile with telephonic confirmation of receipt, except that all notices hereunder shall not be effective until received.
Notices
 
Section 10.5.  .  Borrower agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses of Agent, including, but not limited to, (a) syndication, administration, travel and out-of-pocket expenses, including but not limited to attorneys' fees and expenses, of Agent in connection with the preparation, negotiation and closing of the Loan Documents and the administration of the Loan Documents, the collection and disbursement of all funds hereunder and the other instruments and documents to be delivered hereunder, (b) extraordinary expenses of Agent in connection with the administration of the Loan Documents and the other instruments and documents to be delivered hereunder, and (c) the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of special counsel for Agent, with respect to the foregoing, and of local counsel, if any, who may be retained by said special counsel with respect thereto.  Borrower also agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses of Agent and the Lenders, including reasonable attorneys' fees, in
Costs, Expenses and Taxes
connection with the restructuring or enforcement of the Obligations, this Agreement or any Related Writing.  In addition, Borrower shall pay any and all stamp and other taxes and fees payable or determined to be payable in connection with the execution and delivery of the Loan Documents, and the other instruments and documents to be delivered hereunder, and agrees to hold Agent and each Lender harmless from and against any and all liabilities with respect to or resulting from any delay in paying or failure to pay such taxes or fees.
 
Section 10.6.  .  Borrower agrees to defend, indemnify and hold harmless Agent and the Lenders (and their respective affiliates, officers, directors, attorneys, agents and employees) from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses (including attorneys' fees) or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against Agent or any Lender in connection with any investigative, administrative or judicial proceeding (whether or not such Lender or Agent shall be designated a party thereto) or any other claim by any Person relating to or arising out of any Loan Document or any actual or proposed use of proceeds of the Loans or any of the Obligations, or any activities of any Company or its Affiliates; provided that no Lender nor Agent shall have the right to be indemnified under this Section for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.  All obligations provided for in this Section 10.6 shall survive any termination of this Agreement.
Indemnification
 
Section 10.7.  .  The obligations of the Lenders hereunder are several and not joint.  Nothing contained in this Agreement and no action taken by Agent or the Lenders pursuant hereto shall be deemed to constitute Agent or the Lenders a partnership, association, joint venture or other entity.  No default by any Lender hereunder shall excuse the other Lenders from any obligation under this Agreement; but no Lender shall have or acquire any additional obligation of any kind by reason of such default.  The relationship between Borrower and the Lenders with respect to the Loan Documents and the Related Writings is and shall be solely that of debtor and creditors, respectively, and neither Agent nor any Lender shall have any fiduciary obligation toward any Credit Party with respect to any such documents or the transactions contemplated thereby.
Obligations Several; No Fiduciary Obligations
 
Section 10.8.  .  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts and by facsimile signature, each of which counterparts when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute but one and the same agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
 
Section 10.9.  .  This Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by Borrower, Agent and each Lender and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Borrower, Agent and each of the Lenders and their respective successors and assigns, except that Borrower shall not have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of Agent and all of the Lenders.
Binding Effect; Borrower's Assignment
 
Section 10.10.  .
Lender Assignments
 
(a)           .  Each Lender shall have the right at any time or times to assign to an Eligible Transferee (other than to a Lender that shall not be in compliance with this Agreement), without recourse, all or a percentage of all of the following: (i) such Lender's Commitment, (ii) all Loans made by that Lender, (iii) such Lender's Notes, if any, and (iv) such Lender's interest in any Letter of Credit or Swing Loan, and any participation purchased pursuant to Section 2.2(b), 2.2(c) or 8.5 hereof.
Assignments of Commitments
 
(b)           .  No assignment may be consummated pursuant to this Section 10.10 without the prior written consent of Borrower and Agent (other than an assignment by any Lender to another Lender or to any affiliate of such Lender which affiliate is an Eligible Transferee and either wholly-owned by a Lender or is wholly-owned by a Person that wholly owns, either directly or indirectly, such Lender), which consent of Borrower and Agent shall not be unreasonably withheld; provided, however, that Borrower's consent shall not be required if, at the time of the proposed assignment, any Default or Event of Default shall then exist.  Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, any Lender may at any time make a collateral assignment of all or any portion of its rights under the Loan Documents to a Federal Reserve Bank, and no such assignment shall release such assigning Lender from its obligations hereunder.
Prior Consent
 
(c)           .  Each such assignment shall be in a minimum amount of the lesser of Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) of the assignor's Commitment and interest herein or the entire amount of the assignor's Commitment and interest herein.
Minimum Amount
 
(d)           .  Unless the assignment shall be to an affiliate of the assignor or the assignment shall be due to merger of the assignor or for regulatory purposes, either the assignor or the assignee shall remit to Agent, for its own account, an administrative fee of Three Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($3,500).
Assignment Fee
 
(e)           .  Unless the assignment shall be due to merger of the assignor or a collateral assignment for regulatory purposes, the assignor shall (i) cause the assignee to execute and deliver to Borrower and Agent an Assignment Agreement, and (ii) execute and deliver, or cause the assignee to execute and deliver, as the case may be, to Agent such additional amendments, assurances and other writings as Agent may reasonably require.
Assignment Agreement
 
(f)            .  If the assignment is to be made to an assignee that is organized under the laws of any jurisdiction other than the United States or any state thereof, the assignor Lender shall cause such assignee, at least five Business Days prior to the effective date of such assignment, (i) to represent to the assignor Lender (for the benefit of the assignor Lender, Agent and Borrower) that under applicable law and treaties no taxes will be required to be withheld by Agent, Borrower or the assignor with respect to any payments to be made to such assignee in respect of the Loans hereunder, (ii) to furnish to the assignor Lender (and, in the case of any assignee registered in the Register (as defined below), Agent and Borrower) either (A) U.S. Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI or U.S. Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or (B) United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8 or W-9, as applicable (wherein such assignee claims entitlement to complete exemption from U.S. federal withholding tax on all interest payments hereunder), and (iii) to agree (for the benefit of the assignor, Agent and Borrower) to provide to the assignor Lender (and, in the case of any assignee registered in the
Non-U.S. Assignee
Register, to Agent and Borrower) a new Form W-8ECI or Form W-8BEN or Form W-8 or W-9, as applicable, upon the expiration or obsolescence of any previously delivered form and comparable statements in accordance with applicable U.S. laws and regulations and amendments duly executed and completed by such assignee, and to comply from time to time with all applicable U.S. laws and regulations with regard to such withholding tax exemption.
 
(g)           .  Upon satisfaction of all applicable requirements specified in subsections (a) through (f) above, Borrower shall execute and deliver (i) to Agent, the assignor and the assignee, any consent or release (of all or a portion of the obligations of the assignor) required to be delivered by Borrower in connection with the Assignment Agreement, and (ii) to the assignee and the assignor, if applicable, an appropriate Note or Notes.  After delivery of the new Note or Notes, the assignor's Note or Notes being replaced shall be returned to Borrower marked "replaced".
Deliveries by Borrower
 
(h)           .  Upon satisfaction of all applicable requirements of set forth in subsections (a) through (g) above, and any other condition contained in this Section 10.10, (i) the assignee shall become and thereafter be deemed to be a "Lender" for the purposes of this Agreement, (ii) the assignor shall be released from its obligations hereunder to the extent that its interest has been assigned, (iii) in the event that the assignor's entire interest has been assigned, the assignor shall cease to be and thereafter shall no longer be deemed to be a "Lender" and (iv) the signature pages hereto and hereto shall be automatically amended, without further action, to reflect the result of any such assignment.
Effect of Assignment
Schedule 1
 
(i)            .  Agent shall maintain at the address for notices referred to in Section 10.4 hereof a copy of each Assignment Agreement delivered to it and a register (the "Register") for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender from time to time.  The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, in the absence of manifest error, and Borrower, Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as the owner of the Loan recorded therein for all purposes of this Agreement.  The Register shall be available for inspection by Borrower or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Agent to Maintain Register
 
Section 10.11.  .  Any Lender may, in the ordinary course of its commercial banking business and in accordance with applicable law, at any time sell participations to one or more Eligible Transferees (each a "Participant") in all or a portion of its rights or obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (including, without limitation, all or a portion of the Commitment and the Loans and participations owing to it and the Note held by it); provided, that:
Sale of Participations
 
(a)           any such Lender's obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall remain unchanged;
 
(b)           such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations;
 
(c)           the parties hereto shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement and each of the other Loan Documents;
 
(d)           such Participant shall be bound by the provisions of Section 8.5 hereof, and the Lender selling such participation shall obtain from such Participant a written confirmation of its agreement to be so bound; and
 
(e)           no Participant (unless such Participant is itself a Lender) shall be entitled to require such Lender to take or refrain from taking action under this Agreement or under any other Loan Document, except that such Lender may agree with such Participant that such Lender will not, without such Participant's consent, take action of the type described as follows:
 
(i)            increase the portion of the participation amount of any Participant over the amount thereof then in effect, or extend the Commitment Period, without the written consent of each Participant affected thereby; or
 
(ii)           reduce the principal amount of or extend the time for any payment of principal of any Loan, or reduce the rate of interest or extend the time for payment of interest on any Loan, or reduce the facility fee or the utilization fee, without the written consent of each Participant affected thereby.
 
Borrower agrees that any Lender that sells participations pursuant to this Section shall still be entitled to the benefits of Article III hereof, notwithstanding any such transfer; provided, however, that the obligations of Borrower shall not increase as a result of such transfer and Borrower shall have no obligation to any Participant.
 
Section 10.12.  .  Any provision of this Agreement that shall be prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof or affecting the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction.  The several captions to Sections and subsections herein are inserted for convenience only and shall be ignored in interpreting the provisions of this Agreement.  Each schedule or exhibit attached to this Agreement shall be incorporated herein and shall be deemed to be a part hereof.
Severability of Provisions; Captions; Attachments
 
Section 10.13.  .  Each of the Lenders represents and warrants to Borrower that it is entering into this Agreement with the present intention of acquiring any Note issued pursuant hereto for investment purposes only and not for the purpose of distribution or resale, it being understood, however, that each Lender shall at all times retain full control over the disposition of its assets.
Investment Purpose
 
Section 10.14.  .  This Agreement, any Note and any other Loan Document or other agreement, document or instrument attached hereto or executed on or as of the Closing Date integrate all of the terms and conditions mentioned herein or incidental hereto
Entire Agreement
 
and supersede all oral representations and negotiations and prior writings with respect to the subject matter hereof.
 
Section 10.15.  .  The Loan Documents were negotiated by the parties with the benefit of legal representation and any rule of construction or interpretation otherwise requiring this Agreement or any other Loan Document to be construed or interpreted against any party shall not apply to any construction or interpretation hereof or thereof.
Legal Representation of Parties
 
Section 10.16.  .  This Agreement, each of the Notes and any Related Writing shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio and the respective rights and obligations of Borrower, Agent, and the Lenders shall be governed by Ohio law, without regard to principles of conflict of laws which would result in the application of the law of any other state.  Borrower hereby irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any Ohio state or federal court sitting in Cleveland, Ohio, over any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the Obligations or any Related Writing, and Borrower hereby irrevocably agrees that all claims in respect of such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such Ohio state or federal court.  Borrower, on behalf of itself and its Subsidiaries, hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue in any action or proceeding in any such court as well as any right it may now or hereafter have to remove such action or proceeding, once commenced, to another court on the grounds of FORUM NON CONVENIENS or otherwise.  Borrower agrees that a final, nonappealable judgment in any such action or proceeding in state or federal court shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law.
Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction
 
 
Section 10.17.  .  TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, BORROWER, AGENT AND EACH LENDER WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO HAVE A JURY PARTICIPATE IN RESOLVING ANY DISPUTE, WHETHER SOUNDING IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, AMONG BORROWER, AGENT AND THE LENDERS, OR ANY THEREOF, ARISING OUT OF, IN CONNECTION WITH, RELATED TO, OR INCIDENTAL TO THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED AMONG THEM IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY NOTE OR OTHER INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT EXECUTED OR DELIVERED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED THERETO.
Jury Trial Waiver
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed and delivered this Credit Agreement as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
 
 
 
Cintas Corporation
 
Cintas Corporation No. 3
 
Cintas Corp. No. 8, Inc.
 
Cintas  RUS, L.P.
 
Cintas Corp. No. 15, Inc.
 
Xpect First Aid Corporation
 
Cintas First Aid Holdings Corporation
 
American First Aid Company
 
Respond Industries, Incorporated
 
Affirmed Medical, Inc.
 
LLT, Inc.
None.
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, CINTAS CORPORATION NO. 2, a Nevada corporation ("Borrower"), promises to pay, on the last day of the Commitment Period, as defined in the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined), to the order of                    ("Lender") at the main office of KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Agent, as hereinafter defined, 127 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306, the principal sum of
 
DOLLARS
 
or the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Revolving Loans, as defined in the Credit Agreement made by Lender to Borrower pursuant to Section 2.2(a) of the Credit Agreement, whichever is less, in lawful money of the United States of America.
 
As used herein, "Credit Agreement" means the Credit Agreement dated as of May 28, 2004, among Borrower, the Lenders, as defined therein, KeyBank National Association, as joint lead arranger and administrative agent for the Lenders ("Agent"), Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., as joint lead arranger, Bank One, NA, as syndication agent, Fifth Third Bank, as co-documentation agent, US Bank National Association, as co-documentation agent, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., as co-documentation agent, as the same may from time to time be amended, restated or otherwise modified.  Each capitalized term used herein that is defined in the Credit Agreement and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Credit Agreement.
 
Borrower also promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan from time to time outstanding, from the date of such Revolving Loan until the payment in full thereof, at the rates per annum that shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.3(a) of the Credit Agreement.  Such interest shall be payable on each date provided for in such Section 2.3(a); provided, however, that interest on any principal portion that is not paid when due shall be payable on demand.
 
The portions of the principal sum hereof from time to time representing Base Rate Loans and Eurodollar Loans, and payments of principal of any thereof, shall be shown on the records of Lender by such method as Lender may generally employ; provided, however, that failure to make any such entry shall in no way detract from the obligations of Borrower under this Note.
 
If this Note shall not be paid at maturity, whether such maturity occurs by reason of lapse of time or by operation of any provision for acceleration of maturity contained in the Credit Agreement, the principal hereof and the unpaid interest thereon shall bear interest, until paid, at a rate per annum equal to the Default Rate.  All payments of principal of and interest on this Note shall be made in immediately available funds.
This Note is one of the Revolving Credit Notes referred to in the Credit Agreement.  Reference is made to the Credit Agreement for a description of the right of the undersigned to anticipate payments hereof, the right of the holder hereof to declare this Note due prior to its stated maturity, and other terms and conditions upon which this Note is issued.
 
Except as expressly provided in the Credit Agreement, Borrower expressly waives presentment, demand, protest and notice of any kind.    This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to conflicts of laws provisions.
 
JURY TRIAL WAIVER
.  BORROWER, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, HEREBY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO HAVE A JURY PARTICIPATE IN RESOLVING ANY DISPUTE, WHETHER SOUNDING IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, AMONG BORROWER, AGENT AND THE LENDERS, OR ANY THEREOF, ARISING OUT OF, IN CONNECTION WITH, RELATED TO, OR INCIDENTAL TO THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED AMONG THEM IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY NOTE OR OTHER INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT EXECUTED OR DELIVERED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED THERETO.
 
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, CINTAS CORPORATION NO. 2, a Nevada corporation ("Borrower"), promises to pay to the order of KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION ("Lender") at the main office of KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Agent, as hereinafter defined, 127 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306, the principal sum of
 
DOLLARS
 
or, if less, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Swing Loans, as defined in the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined) made by Lender to Borrower pursuant to Section 2.2(c) of the Credit Agreement, in lawful money of the United States of America on the earlier of the last day of the applicable Commitment Period, as defined in the Credit Agreement, or, with respect to each Swing Loan, the Swing Loan Maturity Date applicable thereto.
 
As used herein, "Credit Agreement" means the Credit Agreement dated as of May 28, 2004, among Borrower, the Lenders, as defined therein, KeyBank National Association, as joint lead arranger and administrative agent for the Lenders ("Agent"), Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., as joint lead arranger, Bank One, NA, as syndication agent, Fifth Third Bank, as co-documentation agent, US Bank National Association, as co-documentation agent, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., as co-documentation agent, as the same may from time to time be amended, restated or otherwise modified.  Each capitalized term used herein that is defined in the Credit Agreement and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Credit Agreement.
 
Borrower also promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Swing Loan from time to time outstanding, from the date of such Swing Loan until the payment in full thereof, at the rates per annum that shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.3(b) of the Credit Agreement.  Such interest shall be payable on each date provided for in such Section 2.3(b); provided, however, that interest on any principal portion which is not paid when due shall be payable on demand.
 
The principal sum hereof from time to time and the payments of principal and interest thereon, shall be shown on the records of Lender by such method as Lender may generally employ; provided, however, that failure to make any such entry shall in no way detract from the obligation of Borrower under this Note.
 
If this Note shall not be paid at maturity, whether such maturity occurs by reason of lapse of time or by operation of any provision for acceleration of maturity contained in the Credit Agreement, the principal hereof and the unpaid interest thereon shall bear interest, until paid, at a
rate per annum equal to the Default Rate.  All payments of principal of and interest on this Note shall be made in immediately available funds.
 
This Note is the Swing Line Note referred to in the Credit Agreement.  Reference is made to the Credit Agreement for a description of the right of the undersigned to anticipate payments hereof, the right of the holder hereof to declare this Note due prior to its stated maturity, and other terms and conditions upon which this Note is issued.
 
Except as expressly provided in the Credit Agreement, Borrower expressly waives presentment, demand, protest and notice of any kind.  This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to conflicts of laws provisions.
 
JURY TRIAL WAIVER.  BORROWER, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, HEREBY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO HAVE A JURY PARTICIPATE IN RESOLVING ANY DISPUTE, WHETHER SOUNDING IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, AMONG BORROWER, AGENT AND THE LENDERS, OR ANY THEREOF, ARISING OUT OF, IN CONNECTION WITH, RELATED TO, OR INCIDENTAL TO THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED AMONG THEM IN CONNECTION WITH THIS NOTE OR ANY OTHER NOTE OR OTHER INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT EXECUTED OR DELIVERED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED THERETO.
 
 
 
KeyBank National Association, as Agent
127 Public Square
Cleveland, Ohio 44114-0616
Attention:  Institutional Banking
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, Cintas Corporation No. 2, refers to the Credit Agreement, dated as of May 28, 2004 (the "Credit Agreement", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, the Lenders, as defined in the Credit Agreement, KeyBank National Association, as joint lead arranger and administrative agent for the Lenders ("Agent"), Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., as joint lead arranger, Bank One, NA, as syndication agent, Fifth Third Bank, as co-documentation agent, US Bank National Association, as co-documentation agent, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., as co-documentation agent, and hereby gives you notice, pursuant to Section 2.5 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Loan under the Credit Agreement, and in connection therewith sets forth below the information relating to the Loan (the "Proposed Loan") as required by Section 2.5 of the Credit Agreement:
 
(a)
          
The Business Day of the Proposed Loan is                     , 20    .
 
(b)
          
The amount of the Proposed Loan is $                              .
 
(c)
          
The Proposed Loan is to be a Base Rate Loan
o
/ Eurodollar Loan
o
/ Swing Loan
o
.
(Check one.)
 
(d)
          
If the Proposed Loan is a Eurodollar Loan, the Interest Period requested is one month
o
, two months
o
, three months
o
, six months
o
.
(Check one.)
 
The undersigned hereby certifies on behalf of Borrower that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Loan:
 
(i)
           
the representations and warranties contained in each Loan Document are correct, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Loan and the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date (except to the extent such representation or warranty expressly relates to an earlier date); and
(ii)
          
no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Proposed Loan, or the application of proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default or Event of Default.
 
 
THE UNDERSIGNED HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT:
 
(1)
          
I am the duly elected [President or Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer] of CINTAS CORPORATION NO. 2, a Nevada corporation ("Borrower");
 
(2)
          
I am familiar with the terms of that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of May 28, 2004, among Borrower, the Lenders, as defined therein, KeyBank National Association, as joint lead arranger and administrative agent for the Lenders ("Agent"), Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., as joint lead arranger, Bank One, NA, as syndication agent, Fifth Third Bank, as co-documentation agent, US Bank National Association, as co-documentation agent, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., as co-documentation agent (as the same may from time to time be amended, restated or otherwise modified, the "Credit Agreement", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), and the terms of the other Loan Documents, and I have made, or have caused to be made under my supervision, a review in reasonable detail of the transactions and condition of Borrower and its Subsidiaries during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements;
 
(3)
          
The review described in paragraph (2) above did not disclose, and I have no knowledge of, the existence of any condition or event that constitutes or constituted a Default or Event of Default, at the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements or as of the date of this Certificate; and
 
(4)
          
Set forth on Attachment I hereto are calculations of the financial covenants set forth in Section 5.7 of the Credit Agreement, which calculations show compliance with the terms thereof.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have signed this certificate the        day of                   , 20      .
 
This Assignment and Acceptance Agreement (this "Assignment Agreement") between                                              (the "Assignor") and                                              (the "Assignee") is dated as of                 , 20  .  The parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.             .  Assignor is a party to a Credit Agreement, dated as of May 28, 2004, among Cintas Corporation No. 2 ("Borrower"), the Lenders, as defined therein, KeyBank National Association, as joint lead arranger and administrative agent for the Lenders ("Agent"), Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., as joint lead arranger, Bank One, NA, as syndication agent, Fifth Third Bank, as co-documentation agent, US Bank National Association, as co-documentation agent, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., as co-documentation agent (as the same may from time to time be amended, restated or otherwise modified, the "Credit Agreement"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings attributed to them in the Credit Agreement.
Preliminary Statement
 
2.             .  Assignor hereby sells and assigns to Assignee, and Assignee hereby purchases and assumes from Assignor, an interest in and to Assignor's rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement, effective as of the Assignment Effective Date (as hereinafter defined), equal to the percentage interest specified on hereto (hereinafter, "Assignee's Percentage") of Assignor's right, title and interest in and to (a) the Commitment of Assignor as set forth on hereto (hereinafter, the "Assigned Amount"), (b) any Loan made by Assignor that is outstanding on the Assignment Effective Date, (c) Assignor's interest in any Letter of Credit outstanding on the Assignment Effective Date, (d) any Note delivered to Assignor pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and (e) the Credit Agreement and the other Related Writings.  After giving effect to such sale and assignment and on and after the Assignment Effective Date, Assignee shall be deemed to have a "Commitment Percentage" under the Credit Agreement equal to the Commitment Percentage set forth in subpart II.A on hereto.
Assignment and Assumption
Annex 1
Annex 1
Annex 1
 
3.             .  The Assignment Effective Date (the "Assignment Effective Date") shall be [                         ,         ] (or such other date agreed to by Agent).  On or prior to the Assignment Effective Date, Assignor shall satisfy the following conditions:
Assignment Effective Date
 
(a)           receipt by Agent of  this Assignment Agreement, including hereto, properly executed by Assignor and Assignee and accepted and consented to by Agent and, if necessary pursuant to the provisions of Section 10.10(a) of the Credit Agreement, by Borrower;
Annex 1
 
(b)           receipt by Agent from Assignor of a fee of Three Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($3,500), if required by Section 10.10 of the Credit Agreement;
 
(c)           receipt by Agent from Assignee of an administrative questionnaire, or other similar document, which shall include (i) the address for notices under the Credit Agreement, (ii) the address of its Lending Office, (iii) wire transfer instructions for delivery of funds by Agent, (iv) and such other information as Agent shall request; and
(d)           receipt by Agent from Assignor or Assignee of any other information required pursuant to Section 10.10 of the Credit Agreement or otherwise necessary to complete the transaction contemplated hereby.
 
4.             .  In consideration for the sale and assignment of Loans hereunder, Assignee shall pay to Assignor, on the Assignment Effective Date, the amount agreed to by Assignee and Assignor.  Any interest, fees and other payments accrued prior to the Assignment Effective Date with respect to the Assigned Amount shall be for the account of Assignor.  Any interest, fees and other payments accrued on and after the Assignment Effective Date with respect to the Assigned Amount shall be for the account of Assignee.  Each of Assignor and Assignee agrees that it will hold in trust for the other part any interest, fees or other amounts which it may receive to which the other party is entitled pursuant to the preceding sentence and to pay the other party any such amounts which it may receive promptly upon receipt thereof.
Payment Obligations
 
5.             .  Assignee represents and warrants to Assignor, Borrower, Agent and the Lenders (a) that it is capable of making and has made and shall continue to make its own credit determinations and analysis based upon such information as Assignee deemed sufficient to enter into the transaction contemplated hereby and not based on any statements or representations by Assignor, (b) Assignee confirms that it meets the requirements to be an assignee as set forth in Section 10.10 of the Credit Agreement; (c) Assignee confirms that it is able to fund the Loans and the Letters of Credit as required by the Credit Agreement; (d) Assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement and the Related Writings are required to be performed by it as a Lender thereunder; and (e) Assignee represents that it has reviewed each of the Loan Documents.  It is understood and agreed that the assignment and assumption hereunder are made without recourse to Assignor and that Assignor makes no representation or warranty of any kind to Assignee and shall not be responsible for (i) the due execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or collectability of the Credit Agreement or any Related Writings, (ii) any representation, warranty or statement made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any of the Related Writings, (iii) the financial condition or creditworthiness of Borrower or Guarantor of Payment, (iv) the performance of or compliance with any of the terms or provisions of the Credit Agreement or any of the Related Writings, (v) the inspection of any of the property, books or records of Borrower, or (vi) the validity, enforceability, perfection, priority, condition, value or sufficiency of any collateral securing or purporting to secure the Loans or Letters of Credit.  Neither Assignor nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents or attorneys shall be liable for any mistake, error of judgment, or action taken or omitted to be taken in connection with the Loans, the Letters of Credit, the Credit Agreement or the Related Writings, except for its or their own bad faith or willful misconduct.  Assignee appoints Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under the Credit Agreement as are delegated to Agent by the terms thereof.
Credit Determination; Limitations on Assignor's Liability
 
6.             .  Assignee agrees to indemnify and hold Assignor harmless against any and all losses, cost and expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees) and liabilities
Indemnity
incurred by Assignor in connection with or arising in any manner from Assignee's performance or non-performance of obligations assumed under this Assignment Agreement.
 
7.             .  After the Assignment Effective Date, Assignee shall have the right pursuant to Section 10.10 of the Credit Agreement to assign the rights which are assigned to Assignee hereunder, provided that (a) any such subsequent assignment does not violate any of the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement, any of the Related Writings, or any law, rule, regulation, order, writ, judgment, injunction or decree and that any consent required under the terms of the Credit Agreement or any of the Related Writings has been obtained, (b) the assignee under such assignment from Assignee shall agree to assume all of Assignee's obligations hereunder in a manner satisfactory to Assignor and (c) Assignee is not thereby released from any of its obligations to Assignor hereunder.
Subsequent Assignments
 
8.             .  If any reduction in the Total Commitment Amount occurs between the date of this Assignment Agreement and the Assignment Effective Date, the percentage of the Total Commitment Amount assigned to Assignee shall remain the percentage specified in Section 1 hereof and the dollar amount of the Commitment of Assignee shall be recalculated based on the reduced Total Commitment Amount.
Reductions of Aggregate Amount of Commitments
 
9.             .  This Assignment Agreement is conditioned upon the acceptance and consent of Agent and, if necessary pursuant to Section 10.10 of the Credit Agreement, upon the acceptance and consent of Borrower; provided, that the execution of this Assignment Agreement by Agent and, if necessary, by Borrower is evidence of such acceptance and consent.
Acceptance of Agent; Notice by Assignor
 
10.           .  This Assignment Agreement embodies the entire agreement and understanding between the parties hereto and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties hereto relating to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
 
11.           .  This Assignment Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to conflicts of laws.
Governing Law
 
12.           .  Notices shall be given under this Assignment Agreement in the manner set forth in the Credit Agreement.  For the purpose hereof, the addresses of the parties hereto (until notice of a change is delivered) shall be the address set forth under each party's name on the signature pages hereof.
Notices
 
13.           JURY TRIAL WAIVER.  EACH OF THE UNDERSIGNED, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO HAVE A JURY PARTICIPATE IN RESOLVING ANY DISPUTE, WHETHER SOUNDING IN CONTRACT, TORT, OR OTHERWISE, AMONG AGENT, ANY OF THE LENDERS, AND BORROWER, OR ANY THEREOF, ARISING OUT OF, IN CONNECTION WITH, RELATED TO, OR INCIDENTAL TO THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED AMONG THEM IN CONNECTION WITH THIS INSTRUMENT OR ANY NOTE OR OTHER AGREEMENT, INSTRUMENT OR DOCUMENT EXECUTED OR DELIVERED IN CONNECTION THEREWITH OR THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED HERETO.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Assignment Agreement by their duly authorized officers as of the date first above written.
On and after the Assignment Effective Date, the Commitment of Assignee, and, if this is less than an assignment of all of Assignor's interest, Assignor, shall be as follows:
 
I.
         
INTEREST OF ASSIGNOR BEING ASSIGNED TO ASSIGNEE
 
 
II.
       
ASSIGNEE'S COMMITMENT (as of the Assignment Effective Date)
 
 
III.
      
ASSIGNOR'S COMMITMENT (as of the Assignment Effective Date)
 
[                                , 20    ]
KeyBank National Association, as Agent
127 Public Square
Cleveland, Ohio 44114-0616
Attention:  Institutional Banking
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
The undersigned, Cintas Corporation No. 2 ("Borrower"), refers to the Credit Agreement, dated as of May 28, 2004 (the "Credit Agreement", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, the Lenders, as defined in the Credit Agreement, KeyBank National Association, as joint lead arranger and administrative agent for the Lenders ("Agent"), Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., as joint lead arranger, Bank One, NA, as syndication agent, Fifth Third Bank, as co-documentation agent, US Bank National Association, as co-documentation agent, and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., as co-documentation agent, and hereby gives you notice, pursuant to Section 2.12 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests an extension as set forth below (the "Extension") under the Credit Agreement, and in connection with the Extension sets forth below the information relating to the Extension as required by Section 2.12 of the Credit Agreement.
 
The undersigned hereby requests Agent and the Lenders to extend the Commitment Period from                                        , 200  to                                            , 200 .
 
The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Extension: (a) the representations and warranties contained in each Loan Document are correct, before and after giving effect to the Extension and the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date (except to the extent such representation or warranty expressly relates to an earlier date); and (b) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Extension, or the application of proceeds therefrom, which constitutes a Default or an Event of Default.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
This FIRST AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (this "Amendment") is made as of the 24
th
 day of February, 2006 among:
 
(a)           CINTAS CORPORATION NO. 2, a Nevada corporation ("Borrower");
 
(b)           the Lenders, as defined in the Credit Agreement, as hereinafter defined;
 
(c)           KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as joint lead arranger and administrative agent for the Lenders under the Credit Agreement ("Agent");
 
(d)           J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. (successor by merger to Banc One Capital Markets, Inc.), as joint lead arranger under the Credit Agreement;
 
(e)           JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. (successor by merger to Bank One, N.A.), as syndication agent under the Credit Agreement;
 
(f)            FIFTH THIRD BANK, as co-documentation agent under the Credit Agreement;
 
(g)           US BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as co-documentation agent under the Credit Agreement; and
 
(h)           THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD. (formerly known as The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd.), as co-documentation agent under the Credit Agreement.
 
WHEREAS, Borrower, Lenders and Agent are parties to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of May 28, 2004, that provides, among other things, for loans and letters of credit aggregating Three Hundred Million Dollars ($300,000,000), all upon certain terms and conditions (as the same may from time to time be amended, restated or otherwise modified, the "Credit Agreement");
 
WHEREAS, Borrower, Agent and the Lenders desire to amend the Credit Agreement to modify certain provisions thereof and add certain provisions thereto;
 
WHEREAS, each capitalized term used herein and defined in the Credit Agreement, but not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meaning given such term in the Credit Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS, unless otherwise specifically provided herein, the provisions of the Credit Agreement revised herein are amended effective as of the date of this Amendment;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual covenants herein and for other valuable consideration, Borrower, Agent and the Lenders agree as follows:
 
1.             .  Article I of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete the definition of "Applicable Facility Fee Rate", "Applicable Margin", "Applicable Utilization Fee Rate", "Commitment Period"  and "Total Commitment Amount" therefrom and to insert in place thereof, respectively, the following:
Amendment to Definitions
 
"Applicable Facility Fee Rate" shall mean:
 
(a)           for any date prior to the First Amendment Effective Date, the Applicable Facility Fee Rate in effect prior to the First Amendment Effective Date;
 
(b)           effective on the First Amendment Effective Date until the first Margin Adjustment Date after the First Amendment Effective Date, seven basis points; and
 
(c)           commencing on the first Margin Adjustment Date after the First Amendment Effective Date and on each Margin Adjustment Date thereafter, the number of basis points set forth in the following matrix, based upon the S&P Rating or the Moody's Rating in effect at such time:
 
 
provided that, notwithstanding anything above to the contrary, (i) if the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating shall at any time be at different Levels in the above chart, and the difference in Levels is only one Level, then the Applicable Facility Fee Rate shall be based upon the higher of the applicable S&P Rating and Moody's Rating, (ii) if the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating shall at any time be at different Levels in the above chart, and such difference is two Levels or more, then the Applicable Facility Fee Rate shall be based upon the Level immediately below the Level determined based on the higher of the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating, (iii) if only one of the two ratings (S&P Rating or Moody's Rating) shall exist, then the existing rating shall determine the Level of the Applicable Facility Fee Rate, and (iv) if neither the S&P Rating nor the Moody's Rating shall exist, then the Applicable Facility Fee Rate shall be set at Level 5.  Changes to the Applicable Facility Fee Rate shall be immediately effective on each Margin Adjustment Date.  The above matrix does not modify or waive, in any respect, the rights of Agent and the Lenders to charge the Default Rate, or the rights and remedies of Agent and the Lenders pursuant to Articles VII and VIII hereof.
"Applicable Margin" shall mean:
 
(a)           for any date prior to the First Amendment Effective Date, the Applicable Margin in effect prior to the First Amendment Effective Date;
 
(b)           effective on the First Amendment Effective Date until the first Margin Adjustment Date after the First Amendment Effective Date, eighteen (18) basis points for Eurodollar Loans; and
 
(c)           commencing on the first Margin Adjustment Date after the First Amendment Effective Date and on each Margin Adjustment Date thereafter, the number of basis points set forth in the following matrix, based upon the S&P Rating or the Moody's Rating in effect at such time:
 
 
provided that, notwithstanding anything above to the contrary, (i) if the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating shall at any time be at different Levels in the above chart, and the difference in Levels is only one Level, then the Applicable Margin shall be based upon the higher of the applicable S&P Rating and Moody's Rating, (ii) if the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating shall at any time be at different Levels in the above chart, and such difference is two Levels or more, then the Applicable Margin shall be based upon the Level immediately below the Level determined based on the higher of the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating, (iii) if only one of the two ratings (S&P Rating or Moody's Rating) shall exist, then the existing rating shall determine the Level of the Applicable Margin, and (iv) if neither the S&P Rating nor the Moody's Rating shall exist, then the Applicable Margin shall be set at Level 5.  Changes to the Applicable Margin shall be immediately effective on each Margin Adjustment Date.  The above matrix does not modify or waive, in any respect, the rights of Agent and the Lenders to charge the Default Rate, or the rights and remedies of Agent and the Lenders pursuant to Articles VII and VIII hereof.
 
"Applicable Utilization Fee Rate" shall mean:
 
(a)           for any date prior to the First Amendment Effective Date, the Applicable Utilization Fee Rate in effect prior to the First Amendment Effective Date;
(b)           effective on the First Amendment Effective Date until the first Margin Adjustment Date after the First Amendment Effective Date, five basis points; and
 
(c)           commencing on the first Margin Adjustment Date after the First Amendment Effective Date and on each Margin Adjustment Date thereafter, the number of basis points set forth in the following matrix, based upon the S&P Rating or the Moody's Rating in effect at such time:
 
 
provided that, notwithstanding anything above to the contrary, (i) if the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating shall at any time be at different Levels in the above chart, and the difference in Levels is only one Level, then the Applicable Utilization Fee Rate shall be based upon the higher of the applicable S&P Rating and Moody's Rating, (ii) if the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating shall at any time be at different Levels in the above charts, and such difference is two Levels or more, then the Applicable Utilization Fee Rate shall be based upon the Level immediately below the Level determined based on the higher of the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating, (iii) if only one of the two ratings (S&P Rating or Moody's Rating) shall exist, then the existing rating shall determine the Level of the Applicable Utilization Fee Rate, and (iv) if neither the S&P Rating nor the Moody's Rating shall exist, then the Applicable Utilization Fee Rate shall be set at Level 5.  Changes to the Applicable Utilization Fee Rate shall be immediately effective on each Margin Adjustment Date.  The above matrix does not modify or waive, in any respect, the rights of Agent and the Lenders to charge the Default Rate, or the rights and remedies of Agent and the Lenders pursuant to Articles VII and VIII hereof.
 
"Commitment Period" shall mean the period from the Closing Date to February 23, 2011, or such earlier date on which the Commitment shall have been terminated pursuant to Article VIII hereof.
 
"Total Commitment Amount" shall mean (a) for any date prior to the First Amendment Effective Date, the Closing Commitment Amount, and (b) on the First Amendment Effective Date and thereafter, the Maximum Commitment Amount, as such amount may be decreased pursuant to Section 2.9(a) hereof.
2.             .  Article I of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to add the following new definitions thereto:
Addition to Definitions
 
"First Amendment Effective Date" shall mean February 24,  2006.
 
"Patriot Act" shall mean Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, USA Patriot Act, Title III of Pub. L. 107-56, signed into law October 26, 2001, as amended from time to time.
 
3.             .  Section 6.3 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to add the following new subsections (d), (e) and (f) at the end thereto:
Addition to Compliance with Laws
 
(d)           has ensured that no Person who owns a controlling interest in or otherwise controls a Company is (i) listed on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Person List maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"), Department of the Treasury, or any other similar lists maintained by OFAC pursuant to any authorizing statute, executive order or regulation, or (ii) a Person designated under Section 1(b), (c) or (d) of Executive Order No. 13224 (September 23, 2001), any related enabling legislation or any other similar executive orders;
 
(e)           is in compliance with all applicable Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering laws and regulations; and
 
(f)            is in compliance, in all material respects, with the Patriot Act.
 
4.             .  Article X of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to add the following new Section 10.18 at the end thereof:
Addition to Miscellaneous
 
Section 10.18.  .  Each Lender and Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any other party) hereby notifies the Credit Parties that, pursuant to the requirements of the Patriot Act, such Lender and Agent are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Credit Parties, which information includes the name and address of the Credit Parties and other information that will allow such Lender or Agent, as applicable, to identify the Credit Parties in accordance with the Patriot Act.  Borrowers shall provide, to the extent commercially reasonable, such information and take such actions as are reasonably requested by Agent or a Lender in order to assist Agent or such Lender in maintaining compliance with the Patriot Act.
Patriot Act Notice
 
5.             .  The Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete (Commitment of Lenders) therefrom and to insert in place thereof the new attached hereto.
Amendment to Schedule 1
Schedule 1
Schedule 1
 
6.             .  Concurrently with the execution of this Amendment, Borrower shall:
Closing Items
 
(a)           deliver to Agent, for delivery to each Lender that has requested a Revolving Credit Note, replacement Revolving Credit Notes, in the amounts specified in to the Credit Agreement;
Schedule 1
 
(b)           cause each Guarantor of Payment to execute the attached Acknowledgement and Agreement; and
 
(c)           pay all legal fees and expenses of Agent in connection with this Amendment.
 
7.             .  Borrower hereby represents and warrants to Agent and the Lenders that (a) Borrower has the legal power and authority to execute and deliver this Amendment; (b) the officers executing this Amendment have been duly authorized to execute and deliver the same and bind Borrower with respect to the provisions hereof; (c) the execution and delivery hereof by Borrower and the performance and observance by Borrower of the provisions hereof do not violate or conflict with the organizational agreements of Borrower or any law applicable to Borrower or result in a breach of any provision of or constitute a default under any other agreement, instrument or document binding upon or enforceable against Borrower; (d) no Default or Event of Default exists under the Credit Agreement, nor will any occur immediately after the execution and delivery of this Amendment or by the performance or observance of any provision hereof; (e) Borrower is not aware of any claim or offset against, or defense or counterclaim to, Borrower's obligations or liabilities under the Credit Agreement or any Related Writing; and (f) this Amendment constitutes a valid and binding obligation of Borrower in every respect, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy or insolvency laws or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally or by general principles of equity.
Representations and Warranties
 
8.             .  Each reference that is made in the Credit Agreement or any Related Writing shall hereafter be construed as a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby. Except as herein otherwise specifically provided, all terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement are confirmed and ratified and shall remain in full force and effect and be unaffected hereby. This Amendment is a Related Writing.
References to Credit Agreement
 
9.             .  Borrower, by signing below, hereby waives and releases Agent and each of the Lenders, and their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys, affiliates and subsidiaries, from any and all claims, offsets, defenses and counterclaims of which Borrower is aware, such waiver and release being with full knowledge and understanding of the circumstances and effect thereof and after having consulted legal counsel with respect thereto.
Waiver
 
10.          .  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, by different parties hereto in separate counterparts and by facsimile signature, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute but one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
11.          .  The headings, captions and arrangements used in this Amendment are for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Amendment.
Headings
12.          .  Any term or provision of this Amendment held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable shall not impair or invalidate the remainder of this Amendment and the effect thereof shall be confined to the term or provision so held to be invalid or unenforceable.
Severability
 
13.          .  The rights and obligations of all parties hereto shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.
Governing Law
 
JURY TRIAL WAIVER
.  BORROWER, THE LENDERS AND AGENT, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EACH HEREBY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO HAVE A JURY PARTICIPATE IN RESOLVING ANY DISPUTE, WHETHER SOUNDING IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, AMONG BORROWER, THE LENDERS AND AGENT, OR ANY THEREOF, ARISING OUT OF, IN CONNECTION WITH, RELATED TO, OR INCIDENTAL TO THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED AMONG THEM IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AMENDMENT OR ANY NOTE OR OTHER INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT EXECUTED OR DELIVERED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED THERETO.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed and delivered this Amendment as of the date first set forth above.
The undersigned consent and agree to and acknowledge the terms of the foregoing First Amendment Agreement dated as of February 24, 2006.  The undersigned further agree that the obligations of the undersigned pursuant to the Guaranty of Payment executed by the undersigned shall remain in full force and effect and be unaffected hereby.
 
The undersigned hereby waive and release Agent and the Lenders and their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys, affiliates and subsidiaries from any and all claims, offsets, defenses and counterclaims of which the undersigned are aware, such waiver and release being with full knowledge and understanding of the circumstances and effect thereof and after having consulted legal counsel with respect thereto.
 
JURY TRIAL WAIVER
.  THE UNDERSIGNED, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, HEREBY WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO HAVE A JURY PARTICIPATE IN RESOLVING ANY DISPUTE, WHETHER SOUNDING IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, AMONG BORROWERS, AGENT, THE LENDERS AND THE UNDERSIGNED, OR ANY THEREOF, ARISING OUT OF, IN CONNECTION WITH, RELATED TO, OR INCIDENTAL TO THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED AMONG THEM IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AMENDMENT OR ANY NOTE OR OTHER INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT EXECUTED OR DELIVERED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED THERETO.
 

Exhibit 10.3
This SECOND AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (this "Amendment") is made as of the 16
th
 day of March, 2007 among:
 
(a)
                                
CINTAS CORPORATION NO. 2, a Nevada corporation ("Borrower");
 
(b)
                                
the Lenders, as defined in the Credit Agreement, as hereinafter defined;
 
(c)
                                 
KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as joint lead arranger and administrative agent for the Lenders under the Credit Agreement ("Agent");
 
(d)
                                
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. (successor by merger to Banc One Capital Markets, Inc.), as joint lead arranger under the Credit Agreement;
 
(e)
                                 
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. (successor by merger to Bank One, N.A.), as syndication agent under the Credit Agreement;
 
(f)
                                  
FIFTH THIRD BANK, as co-documentation agent under the Credit Agreement;
 
(g)
                                 
US BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as co-documentation agent under the Credit Agreement; and
 
(h)
                                
THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD. (formerly known as The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd.)
, as co-documentation agent under the Credit Agreement.
 
WHEREAS, Borrower, Agent and the Lenders are parties to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of May 28, 2004, that provides, among other things, for loans and letters of credit aggregating Four Hundred Million Dollars ($400,000,000), all upon certain terms and conditions (as amended and as the same may from time to time be further amended, restated or otherwise modified, the "Credit Agreement");
 
WHEREAS, Borrower, Agent and the Lenders desire to amend the Credit Agreement to modify certain provisions thereof and add certain provisions thereto;
 
WHEREAS, each capitalized term used herein and defined in the Credit Agreement, but not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meaning given such term in the Credit Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS, unless otherwise specifically provided herein, the provisions of the Credit Agreement revised herein are amended effective as of the date of this Amendment;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual covenants herein and for other valuable consideration, Borrower, Agent and the Lenders agree as follows:
 
1.
                                     
Amendment to Definitions
.  Article I of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete the definitions of "Commitment Increase Period", "Maximum Commitment Amount" and "Total Commitment Amount" therefrom and to insert in place thereof, respectively, the following:
 
"Commitment Increase Period" shall mean the period from the Closing Date to (a) the earlier of (i) the date that is thirty (30) days prior to the last day of the Commitment Period, and (ii) the date that the Total Commitment Amount is reduced to less than Two Hundred Million Dollars ($200,000,000) pursuant to Section 2.9(a) hereof; or (b) such later date as shall be agreed to in writing by Agent.
 
"Maximum Commitment Amount" shall mean Six Hundred Million Dollars ($600,000,000).
 
"Total Commitment Amount" shall mean (a) for any date prior to the First Amendment Effective Date, the Closing Commitment Amount, and (b) on the First Amendment Effective Date and thereafter, Four Hundred Million Dollars ($400,000,000), as such amount may be increased up to the Maximum Commitment Amount pursuant to Section 2.9(b) hereof, or decreased pursuant to Section 2.9(a) hereof.
 
2.
                                     
Amendment to Modification of Commitment Provisions
.  Section 2.9 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete subsections (a) and (b) therefrom and to insert in place thereof, respectively, the following:
 
(a)
                                
Optional Reduction of Commitment
.  Borrower may at any time and from time to time reduce in whole or ratably in part the Total Commitment Amount to an amount not less than the then existing Revolving Credit Exposure, by giving Agent not fewer than three Business Days' written notice of such reduction, provided that (i) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount, for all of the Lenders, of not less than Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000), increased by increments of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000), (ii) there shall be no more than two such reductions during any calendar year, and (iii) any such reduction that reduces the Total Commitment Amount to less than Two Hundred Million Dollars ($200,000,000) shall constitute a permanent reduction of the Total Commitment Amount and shall be effective during the remainder of the Commitment Period.  Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the date of each such reduction and such Lender's proportionate share thereof.  After each such reduction, the facility fees payable hereunder shall be calculated upon the Total Commitment Amount as so reduced.  If Borrower reduces in whole the Commitment, on the effective date of such reduction (Borrower having prepaid in full the unpaid principal balance, if any, of the Loans, together with all interest and facility, utilization and other fees accrued and unpaid, and provided that no Letter of Credit Exposure or Swing Line Exposure shall exist), all of the Notes shall be delivered to Agent marked "Canceled" and Agent shall redeliver such Notes to Borrower.  Any partial reduction in the Total Commitment Amount shall be effective during the remainder of the Commitment Period (provided that the Total Commitment Amount may thereafter be increased during the Commitment Increase Period pursuant to Section 2.9(b) hereof).
 
(b)
                                
Increase in Commitment
.  At any time during the Commitment Increase Period, Borrower may request that Agent increase the Total Commitment Amount up to an amount that shall not exceed the Maximum Commitment Amount.  Each such increase shall be in an amount of at least Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000), increased by increments of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000), and may be made by either (i) proportionally increasing, for one or more Lenders, with their prior written consent, their respective Revolving Credit Commitments, or (ii) including one or more Additional Lenders, each with a new Revolving Credit Commitment, as a party to this Agreement (collectively, the "Additional Commitment").  During the Commitment Increase Period, the Lenders agree that Agent, in its sole discretion, may permit one or more Additional Commitments upon satisfaction of the following requirements: (A) each Additional Lender, if any, shall be an Eligible Transferee and shall execute an Additional Lender Assumption Agreement, (B) Agent shall provide to Borrower and each Lender a revised to this Agreement, including revised Commitment Percentages for each of the Lenders, if appropriate, at least three Business Days prior to the effectiveness of such Additional Commitments (each an "Additional Lender Assumption Effective Date"), and (C) Borrower shall execute and deliver to Agent and the Lenders such replacement or additional Revolving Credit Notes as shall be required by Agent (and requested by the Lenders).  The Lenders hereby authorize Agent to execute each Additional Lender Assumption Agreement on behalf of the Lenders.  On each Additional Lender Assumption Effective Date, the Lenders shall make adjustments among themselves with respect to the Revolving Loans then outstanding and amounts of principal, interest, facility fees, utilization fees and other amounts paid or payable with respect thereto as shall be necessary, in the opinion of Agent, in order to reallocate among such Lenders such outstanding amounts, based on the revised Commitment Percentages and to otherwise carry out fully the intent and terms of this Section 2.9(b).  Borrower shall not request any increase in the Commitment pursuant to this Section 2.9(b) if a Default or an Event of Default shall then exist, or immediately after giving effect to any such increase would exist.
Schedule 1
 
3.
                                     
Closing Items
.  Concurrently with the execution of this Amendment, Borrower shall:
 
(a)
                                
cause each Guarantor of Payment to execute the attached Acknowledgement and Agreement; and
 
(b)
                                
pay all legal fees and expenses of Agent in connection with this Amendment.
 
4.
                                     
Representations and Warranties
.  Borrower hereby represents and warrants to Agent and the Lenders that (a) Borrower has the legal power and authority to execute and deliver this Amendment; (b) the officers executing this Amendment have been duly authorized to execute and deliver the same and bind Borrower with respect to the provisions hereof; (c) the execution and delivery hereof by Borrower and the performance and observance by Borrower of the provisions hereof do not violate or conflict with the organizational agreements of Borrower
 
or any law applicable to Borrower or result in a breach of any provision of or constitute a default under any other agreement, instrument or document binding upon or enforceable against Borrower; (d) no Default or Event of Default exists under the Credit Agreement, nor will any occur immediately after the execution and delivery of this Amendment or by the performance or observance of any provision hereof; (e) Borrower is not aware of any claim or offset against, or defense or counterclaim to, Borrower's obligations or liabilities under the Credit Agreement or any Related Writing; and (f) this Amendment constitutes a valid and binding obligation of Borrower in every respect, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy or insolvency laws or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally or by general principles of equity.
 
5.
                                     
References to Credit Agreement
.  Each reference that is made in the Credit Agreement or any Related Writing shall hereafter be construed as a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby. Except as herein otherwise specifically provided, all terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement are confirmed and ratified and shall remain in full force and effect and be unaffected hereby. This Amendment is a Related Writing.
 
6.
                                     
Waiver
.  Borrower, by signing below, hereby waives and releases Agent and each of the Lenders, and their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys, affiliates and subsidiaries, from any and all claims, offsets, defenses and counterclaims of which Borrower is aware, such waiver and release being with full knowledge and understanding of the circumstances and effect thereof and after having consulted legal counsel with respect thereto.
 
7.
                                     
Counterparts
.  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, by different parties hereto in separate counterparts and by facsimile signature, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute but one and the same agreement.
 
8.
                                     
Headings
.  The headings, captions and arrangements used in this Amendment are for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Amendment.
 
9.
                                     
Severability
.  Any term or provision of this Amendment held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable shall not impair or invalidate the remainder of this Amendment and the effect thereof shall be confined to the term or provision so held to be invalid or unenforceable.
 
10.
                              
Governing Law
.  The rights and obligations of all parties hereto shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.
 
JURY TRIAL WAIVER
.  BORROWER, THE LENDERS AND AGENT, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EACH HEREBY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO HAVE A JURY PARTICIPATE IN RESOLVING ANY DISPUTE, WHETHER SOUNDING IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, AMONG BORROWER, THE LENDERS AND AGENT, OR ANY THEREOF, ARISING OUT OF, IN CONNECTION WITH, RELATED TO, OR INCIDENTAL TO THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED AMONG THEM IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AMENDMENT OR ANY NOTE OR OTHER INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT EXECUTED OR DELIVERED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED THERETO.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed and delivered this Amendment as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
 
 
The undersigned consent and agree to and acknowledge the terms of the foregoing Second Amendment Agreement dated as of March 16, 2007.  The undersigned further agree that the obligations of the undersigned pursuant to the Guaranty of Payment executed by the undersigned shall remain in full force and effect and be unaffected hereby.
 
The undersigned hereby waive and release Agent and the Lenders and their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys, affiliates and subsidiaries from any and all claims, offsets, defenses and counterclaims of which the undersigned are aware, such waiver and release being with full knowledge and understanding of the circumstances and effect thereof and after having consulted legal counsel with respect thereto.
 
JURY TRIAL WAIVER
.  THE UNDERSIGNED, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, HEREBY WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO HAVE A JURY PARTICIPATE IN RESOLVING ANY DISPUTE, WHETHER SOUNDING IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, AMONG BORROWERS, AGENT, THE LENDERS AND THE UNDERSIGNED, OR ANY THEREOF, ARISING OUT OF, IN CONNECTION WITH, RELATED TO, OR INCIDENTAL TO THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED AMONG THEM IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AMENDMENT OR ANY NOTE OR OTHER INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT EXECUTED OR DELIVERED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED THERETO.
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
This THIRD AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (this "Amendment") is made as of the 31
st
 day of May, 2007 among:
 
(a)
                                
CINTAS CORPORATION NO. 2, a Nevada corporation ("Borrower");
 
(b)
                                
the Lenders, as defined in the Credit Agreement, as hereinafter defined;
 
(c)
                                 
KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as joint lead arranger and administrative agent for the Lenders under the Credit Agreement ("Agent");
 
(d)
                                
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. (successor by merger to Banc One Capital Markets, Inc.), as joint lead arranger under the Credit Agreement;
 
(e)
                                 
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. (successor by merger to Bank One, N.A.), as syndication agent under the Credit Agreement;
 
(f)
                                  
FIFTH THIRD BANK, as co-documentation agent under the Credit Agreement;
 
(g)
                                 
US BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as co-documentation agent under the Credit Agreement; and
 
(h)
                                
THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD. (formerly known as The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd.)
, as co-documentation agent under the Credit Agreement.
 
WHEREAS, Borrower, Agent and the Lenders are parties to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of May 28, 2004, that provides, among other things, for loans and letters of credit aggregating Six Hundred Million Dollars ($600,000,000), all upon certain terms and conditions (as amended and as the same may from time to time be further amended, restated or otherwise modified, the "Credit Agreement");
 
WHEREAS, Borrower, Agent and the Lenders desire to amend the Credit Agreement to modify certain provisions thereof and add certain provisions thereto;
 
WHEREAS, unless otherwise specifically provided herein, the provisions of the Credit Agreement revised herein are amended effective as of the date of this Amendment; and
 
WHEREAS, each capitalized term used herein and defined in the Credit Agreement, but not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meaning given such term in the Credit Agreement;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual covenants herein and for other valuable consideration, Borrower, Agent and the Lenders agree as follows:
 
1.
                                     
Amendment to Conditions to Each Credit Event
.  Section 4.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete subsection (iii) therefrom and to insert in place thereof the following:
 
(iii)
                              
each of the representations and warranties contained in Article VI hereof (other than the representations and warranties set forth in Sections 6.4, 6.7, 6.8, 6.12 and 6.14 hereof) shall be true in all material respects as if made on and as of the date of such Credit Event, except to the extent that any thereof expressly relate to an earlier date.
 
2.
                                     
Closing Items
.  Concurrently with the execution of this Amendment, Borrower shall:
 
(a)
                                
cause each Guarantor of Payment to execute the attached Acknowledgement and Agreement; and
 
(b)
                                
pay all legal fees and expenses of Agent in connection with this Amendment.
 
3.
                                     
Exercise of Accordion
.  Effective as of May 30, 2007, Borrower exercised the accordion feature set forth in Section 2.9(b) of the Credit Agreement and thereby the Total Commitment Amount was increased from Four Hundred Million Dollars ($400,000,000) to Six Hundred Million Dollars ($600,000,000).  Attached hereto is the of the Credit Agreement as in effect commencing on May 30, 2007.
Schedule 1
 
4.
                                     
Representations and Warranties
.  Borrower hereby represents and warrants to Agent and the Lenders that (a) Borrower has the legal power and authority to execute and deliver this Amendment; (b) the officers executing this Amendment have been duly authorized to execute and deliver the same and bind Borrower with respect to the provisions hereof; (c) the execution and delivery hereof by Borrower and the performance and observance by Borrower of the provisions hereof do not violate or conflict with the organizational agreements of Borrower or any law applicable to Borrower or result in a breach of any provision of or constitute a default under any other agreement, instrument or document binding upon or enforceable against Borrower; (d) no Default or Event of Default exists under the Credit Agreement, nor will any occur immediately after the execution and delivery of this Amendment or by the performance or observance of any provision hereof; (e) Borrower is not aware of any claim or offset against, or defense or counterclaim to, Borrower's obligations or liabilities under the Credit Agreement or any Related Writing; and (f) this Amendment constitutes a valid and binding obligation of Borrower in every respect, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy or insolvency laws or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally or by general principles of equity.
 
5.
                                     
References to Credit Agreement
.  Each reference that is made in the Credit Agreement or any Related Writing shall hereafter be construed as a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby. Except as herein otherwise specifically provided, all terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement are confirmed and ratified and shall remain in full force and effect and be unaffected hereby. This Amendment is a Related Writing.
6.
                                     
Waiver
.  Borrower, by signing below, hereby waives and releases Agent and each of the Lenders, and their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys, affiliates and subsidiaries, from any and all claims, offsets, defenses and counterclaims of which Borrower is aware, such waiver and release being with full knowledge and understanding of the circumstances and effect thereof and after having consulted legal counsel with respect thereto.
 
7.
                                     
Counterparts
.  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, by different parties hereto in separate counterparts and by facsimile signature, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute but one and the same agreement.
 
8.
                                     
Headings
.  The headings, captions and arrangements used in this Amendment are for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Amendment.
 
9.
                                     
Severability
.  Any term or provision of this Amendment held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable shall not impair or invalidate the remainder of this Amendment and the effect thereof shall be confined to the term or provision so held to be invalid or unenforceable.
 
10.
                              
Governing Law
.  The rights and obligations of all parties hereto shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.
 
JURY TRIAL WAIVER
.  BORROWER, THE LENDERS AND AGENT, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EACH HEREBY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO HAVE A JURY PARTICIPATE IN RESOLVING ANY DISPUTE, WHETHER SOUNDING IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, AMONG BORROWER, THE LENDERS AND AGENT, OR ANY THEREOF, ARISING OUT OF, IN CONNECTION WITH, RELATED TO, OR INCIDENTAL TO THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED AMONG THEM IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AMENDMENT OR ANY NOTE OR OTHER INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT EXECUTED OR DELIVERED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED THERETO.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed and delivered this Amendment as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
 
 
The undersigned consent and agree to and acknowledge the terms of the foregoing Third Amendment Agreement dated as of May 31, 2007.  The undersigned further agree that the obligations of the undersigned pursuant to the Guaranty of Payment executed by the undersigned shall remain in full force and effect and be unaffected hereby.
 
The undersigned hereby waive and release Agent and the Lenders and their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys, affiliates and subsidiaries from any and all claims, offsets, defenses and counterclaims of which the undersigned are aware, such waiver and release being with full knowledge and understanding of the circumstances and effect thereof and after having consulted legal counsel with respect thereto.
 
JURY TRIAL WAIVER
.  THE UNDERSIGNED, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, HEREBY WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO HAVE A JURY PARTICIPATE IN RESOLVING ANY DISPUTE, WHETHER SOUNDING IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, AMONG BORROWERS, AGENT, THE LENDERS AND THE UNDERSIGNED, OR ANY THEREOF, ARISING OUT OF, IN CONNECTION WITH, RELATED TO, OR INCIDENTAL TO THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED AMONG THEM IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AMENDMENT OR ANY NOTE OR OTHER INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT EXECUTED OR DELIVERED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED THERETO.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
 
Published Revolver CUSIP Number: 17259CAB1
Published Transaction CUSIP Number: 17259CAA3
 
This FOURTH AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (this "Amendment") is made as of the 27
th
 day of September, 2010 among:
 
(a)
                                 
CINTAS CORPORATION NO. 2, a Nevada corporation ("Borrower");
 
(b)
                                
the Lenders, as defined in the Credit Agreement, as hereinafter defined;
 
(c)
                                 
KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as joint lead arranger and administrative agent for the Lenders under the Credit Agreement ("Agent");
 
(d)
                                
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC (successor by merger to Banc One Capital Markets, Inc.), as joint lead arranger under the Credit Agreement;
 
(e)
                                 
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. (successor by merger to Bank One, N.A.), as syndication agent under the Credit Agreement;
 
(f)
                                   
THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD., as co-documentation agent under the Credit Agreement;
 
(g)
                                
U.S. BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as co-documentation agent under the Credit Agreement; and
 
(h)
                                
FIFTH THIRD BANK, as co-documentation agent under the Credit Agreement.
 
WHEREAS, Borrower, Agent and the Lenders are parties to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of May 28, 2004, that provides, among other things, for loans and letters of credit aggregating Six Hundred Million Dollars ($600,000,000), all upon certain terms and conditions (as amended and as the same may from time to time be further amended, restated or otherwise modified, the "Credit Agreement");
 
WHEREAS, Borrower, Agent and the Lenders desire to amend the Credit Agreement to modify certain provisions thereof and add certain provisions thereto;
 
WHEREAS, each capitalized term used herein and defined in the Credit Agreement, but not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meaning given such term in the Credit Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS, unless otherwise specifically provided herein, the provisions of the Credit Agreement revised herein are amended effective as of the date of this Amendment;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual covenants herein and for other valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, Borrower, Agent and the Lenders agree as follows:
 
1.
                                      
Amendment to Definitions in the Credit Agreement
.  Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete the definitions of "Applicable Facility Fee Rate",  "Applicable Margin", "Base Rate", "Commitment Increase Period", "Commitment Period", "Letter of Credit Commitment", "Maximum Commitment Amount", "Required Lenders", "Senior Note Indebtedness" and "Total Commitment Amount" therefrom and to insert in place thereof, respectively, the following:
 
"Applicable Facility Fee Rate" shall mean:
 
(a)
                                 
for any date prior to the Fourth Amendment Effective Date, the Applicable Facility Fee Rate in effect prior to the Fourth Amendment Effective Date;
 
(b)
                                
effective on the Fourth Amendment Effective Date until the first Margin Adjustment Date after the Fourth Amendment Effective Date, twelve and one-half (12.50) basis points; and
 
(c)
                                 
commencing on the first Margin Adjustment Date after the Fourth Amendment Effective Date and on each Margin Adjustment Date thereafter, the number of basis points set forth in the following matrix, based upon the S&P Rating or the Moody's Rating in effect at such time:
 
 
provided that, notwithstanding anything above to the contrary, (i) if the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating shall at any time be at different Levels in the above chart, and the difference in Levels is only one Level, then the Applicable Facility Fee Rate shall be based upon the higher of the applicable S&P Rating and Moody's Rating, (ii) if the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating shall at any time be at different Levels in the above chart, and such difference is two Levels or more, then the Applicable Facility Fee Rate shall be based upon the Level immediately below the Level determined based on the higher of the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating, (iii) if only one of the two ratings (S&P Rating or Moody's Rating) shall exist, then the existing rating shall determine the Level of the
 
Applicable Facility Fee Rate, and (iv) if neither the S&P Rating nor the Moody's Rating shall exist, then the Applicable Facility Fee Rate shall be set at Level 5.  Changes to the Applicable Facility Fee Rate shall be immediately effective on each Margin Adjustment Date.  The above matrix does not modify or waive, in any respect, the rights of Agent and the Lenders to charge the Default Rate, or the rights and remedies of Agent and the Lenders pursuant to Articles VII and VIII hereof.
 
"Applicable Margin" shall mean:
 
(a)
                                 
for any date prior to the Fourth Amendment Effective Date, the Applicable Margin in effect prior to the Fourth Amendment Effective Date;
 
(b)
                                
effective on the Fourth Amendment Effective Date until the first Margin Adjustment Date after the Fourth Amendment Effective Date, one hundred twelve and one-half (112.50) basis points for Eurodollar Loans; and
 
(c)
                                 
commencing on the first Margin Adjustment Date after the Fourth Amendment Effective Date and on each Margin Adjustment Date thereafter, the number of basis points set forth in the following matrix, based upon the S&P Rating or the Moody's Rating in effect at such time:
 
 
provided that, notwithstanding anything above to the contrary, (i) if the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating shall at any time be at different Levels in the above chart, and the difference in Levels is only one Level, then the Applicable Margin shall be based upon the higher of the applicable S&P Rating and Moody's Rating, (ii) if the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating shall at any time be at different Levels in the above chart, and such difference is two Levels or more, then the Applicable Margin shall be based upon the Level immediately below the Level determined based on the higher of the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating, (iii) if only one of the two ratings (S&P Rating or Moody's Rating) shall exist, then the existing rating shall determine the Level of the Applicable Margin, and (iv) if neither the S&P Rating nor the Moody's Rating shall exist, then the Applicable Margin shall be set at Level 5.  Changes to the Applicable Margin shall be immediately effective on each Margin Adjustment Date.  The above matrix does not modify or waive, in any respect, the rights of Agent and the Lenders to charge the Default
 
Rate, or the rights and remedies of Agent and the Lenders pursuant to Articles VII and VIII hereof.
 
"Base Rate" shall mean, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the Prime Rate, (b) one-half of one percent (.50%) in excess of the Federal Funds Effective Rate, and (c) one hundred (100.00) basis points in excess of the London Interbank Offered Rate for loans in Eurodollars with an Interest Period of one month (or, if such day is not a Business Day, such rate as calculated on the most recent Business Day).  Any change in the Base Rate shall be effective immediately from and after such change in the Base Rate.
 
"Commitment Increase Period" shall mean the period from the Fourth Amendment Effective Date to (a) the earlier of (i) the date that is thirty (30) days prior to the last day of the Commitment Period, and (ii) the date that the Total Commitment Amount is reduced to less than Two Hundred Million Dollars ($200,000,000) pursuant to Section 2.9(a) hereof; or (b) such later date as shall be agreed to in writing by Agent.
 
"Commitment Period" shall mean the period from the Closing Date to September 26, 2014 or such earlier date on which the Commitment shall have been terminated pursuant to Article VIII hereof.
 
"Letter of Credit Commitment" shall mean the commitment of the Fronting Lender, on behalf of the Lenders, to issue Letters of Credit in an aggregate face amount of up to One Hundred Fifty Million Dollars ($150,000,000).
 
"Maximum Commitment Amount" shall mean Four Hundred Fifty Million Dollars ($450,000,000).
 
"Required Lenders" shall mean the holders of more than fifty percent (50%), based upon each Lender's Commitment Percentage, of an amount (the "Total Amount") equal to (a) during the Commitment Period, the Total Commitment Amount, or (b) after the Commitment Period, the Revolving Credit Exposure; provided that the portion of the Total Amount held or deemed to be held by any Defaulting Lender or Insolvent Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
 
"Senior Note Indebtedness" shall mean the Indebtedness evidenced by the 6% Senior Notes due 2012, the 6 1/8% Senior Notes due 2017 and the 6.15% Senior Notes due 2036, in each case issued by Borrower, or any replacement or refinancing of such Indebtedness or any other Indebtedness created pursuant to a similar type of private debt instrument or agreement as the foregoing.
 
"Total Commitment Amount" shall mean the principal amount of Three Hundred Million Dollars ($300,000,000), as such amount may be increased up to the Maximum Commitment Amount pursuant to Section 2.9(b) hereof, or decreased pursuant to Section 2.9(a) hereof.
2.
                                      
Additions to Definitions in the Credit Agreement
.  Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to add the following new definitions thereto:
 
"Affected Lender" shall mean a Defaulting Lender or an Insolvent Lender.
 
"Bankruptcy Code" shall mean Title 11 of the United States Code entitled "Bankruptcy", as now or hereafter in effect, or any successor thereto, as hereafter amended.
 
"Defaulting Lender" shall mean any Lender, as reasonably determined by Agent, that (a) has failed (which failure has not been cured) to fund any Loan or any participation interest in Letters of Credit required to be made hereunder in accordance with the terms hereof (unless such Lender shall have notified Agent and Borrower in writing of its good faith determination that a condition under Section 4.1 hereof to its obligation to fund any Loan shall not have been satisfied); (b) has notified Borrower or Agent in writing that it does not intend to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement or has made a public statement to the effect that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations under this Agreement or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit; (c) has failed, within three Business Days after receipt of a written request from Agent or Borrower to confirm that it will comply with the terms of this Agreement relating to its obligation to fund prospective Loans or participations in Letters of Credit, and such request states that the requesting party has reason to believe that the Lender receiving such request may fail to comply with such obligation, and states such reason; or (d) has failed to pay to Agent or any other Lender when due an amount owed by such Lender to Agent or any other Lender pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, unless such amount is subject to a good faith dispute or such failure has been cured.  Any Defaulting Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender when Agent determines, in its reasonable discretion, that such Defaulting Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender based upon the characteristics set forth in this definition.
 
"Fourth Amendment Effective Date" shall mean September 27, 2010.
 
"Insolvent Lender" shall mean a Lender that (a) is not Solvent or is the subsidiary of a Person that is not Solvent; or (b) has become the subject of a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code or under any other applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law now or hereafter in effect, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee or custodian appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment, or is a subsidiary of a Person that has become the subject of a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code or under any other applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law now or hereafter in effect, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee or custodian appointed for it, or has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment; provided that a Lender shall not be an Insolvent Lender (i) solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of an equity interest in such Lender or a parent company thereof by a governmental authority or an instrumentality thereof or (ii) if the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (or any other
 
federal agency that has the backing of the full faith and credit of the United States) has assumed all of such Lender's obligations under this Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to Agent.  Any Insolvent Lender shall cease to be an Insolvent Lender when Agent determines, in its reasonable discretion, that such Insolvent Lender is no longer an Insolvent Lender based upon the characteristics set forth in this definition.
 
"KeyBank" shall mean KeyBank National Association, and its successors and assigns.
 
"Non-Consenting Lender" shall mean that term as defined in Section 10.3(c) hereof.
 
"Other Agents" shall mean that term as defined in Section 9.11 hereof.
 
"Solvent" shall mean, with respect to any Person, that (a) the fair value of such Person's assets is in excess of the total amount of such Person's debts, as determined in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code, (b) the present fair saleable value of such Person's assets is in excess of the amount that will be required to pay such Person's debts as such debts  become absolute and matured, (c) such Person is able to realize upon its assets and pay its debts and other liabilities (including disputed, contingent and unliquidated liabilities) as such liabilities mature in the normal course of business, (d) such Person does not intend to, and does not believe that it will, incur debts or liabilities beyond its ability to pay as such debts and liabilities mature, and (e) such Person is not engaged in business or a transaction, and is not about to engage in business or a transaction, for which its property would constitute an unreasonably small amount of capital.  As used in this definition, the term "debts" includes any legal liability, whether matured or unmatured, liquidated or unliquidated, absolute, fixed or contingent, as determined in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code.
 
"Supporting Letter of Credit" shall mean a standby letter of credit, in form and substance satisfactory to Agent and the Fronting Lender, issued by an issuer satisfactory to Agent and the Fronting Lender.
 
3.
                                      
Deletion of Definition in Credit Agreement
.  Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete the definition of Applicable Utilization Fee Rate.
 
4.
                                      
Additions to Letters of Credit Provisions
.  Section 2.2(b) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to add the following new subsections (viii), (ix), (x) and (xi) at the end thereof:
 
(viii)
                       
Auto-Renewal Letters of Credit
.  If Borrower so requests, a Letter of Credit shall have an automatic renewal provision; provided that any Letter of Credit that has an automatic renewal provision must permit Agent (or the applicable Fronting Lender if the Fronting Lender is a Lender other than Agent) to prevent any such renewal by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than thirty (30) days prior to the renewal date of such Letter of Credit.  Once any such Letter of Credit that has automatic
 
renewal provisions has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) Agent (and the Fronting Lender) to permit at any time the renewal of such Letter of Credit to an expiry date not later than one year after the last day of the Commitment Period.
 
(ix)
                               
Letters of Credit Outstanding Beyond the Commitment Period
.  If any Letter of Credit is outstanding upon the termination of the Commitment, then, upon such termination, Borrower shall deposit with Agent, for the benefit of the Fronting Lender, with respect to all outstanding Letters of Credit, either cash or a Supporting Letter of Credit, which, in each case, is (A) in an amount equal to one hundred five percent (105%) of the undrawn amount of the outstanding Letters of Credit, and (B) free and clear of all rights and claims of third parties (other than Agent, the Fronting Lender and the depository bank maintaining such deposit).  The cash shall be deposited in an escrow account at a financial institution designated by the Fronting Lender.  The Fronting Lender shall be entitled to withdraw (with respect to the cash) or draw (with respect to the Supporting Letter of Credit) amounts necessary to reimburse the Fronting Lender for payments to be made under the Letters of Credit and any fees and expenses associated with such Letters of Credit, or incurred pursuant to the reimbursement agreements with respect to such Letters of Credit.  Borrower shall also execute such documentation as Agent or the Fronting Lender may reasonably require in connection with the survival of the Letters of Credit beyond the Commitment or this Agreement.  After expiration of all undrawn Letters of Credit, the original Supporting Letter of Credit or the remainder of the cash, as the case may be, shall promptly be returned to Borrower.
 
(x)
                                  
Requests for Letters of Credit When One or More Lenders are Affected Lenders
.  If a Letter of Credit is requested at such time that a Lender is an Affected Lender hereunder, then (A) such Letter of Credit may be issued to the extent that Agent (and the Fronting Lender) shall have entered into satisfactory (to Agent) arrangements (including, without limitation, the posting of cash collateral by the Affected Lender) with Borrower or such Affected Lender to eliminate or mitigate the reimbursement risk with respect to such Affected Lender, or (B) Agent may issue a Letter of Credit in an amount that is the amount of the requested Letter of Credit less the Commitment Percentage of such Affected Lender times the amount of the requested Letter of Credit.
 
(xi)
                               
Letters of Credit Issued and Outstanding When One or More Lenders are Affected Lenders
.  With respect to any Letters of Credit that have been issued and are outstanding at the time any Lender is an Affected Lender, Agent (and the Fronting Lender) shall have the right to request that Borrower or such Affected Lender cash collateralize, in form and substance satisfactory to Agent (and the Fronting Lender), such Letters of Credit so as to eliminate or mitigate the reimbursement risk with respect to such Affected Lender.
 
5.
                                      
Additions to Swing Loans Provisions
.  Section 2.2(c) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to add the following new subsections (iv) and (v) at the end thereof:
(iv)
                             
Requests for Swing Loans When One or More Lenders are Affected Lenders
.  If a Swing Loan is requested at such time that a Lender is an Affected Lender hereunder, then (A) such Swing Loan may be issued to the extent that Agent shall have entered into satisfactory (to Agent) arrangements (including, without limitation, the posting of cash collateral by the Affected Lender) with Borrower or such Affected Lender to eliminate or mitigate the reimbursement risk with respect to such Affected Lender, or (B) Agent may issue a Swing Loan in an amount that is the amount of the requested Swing Loan less the Commitment Percentage of such Affected Lender times the amount of the requested Swing Loan.
 
(v)
                                
Swing Loans Outstanding When One or More Lenders are Affected Lenders
.  With respect to any Swing Loans that are outstanding at the time any Lender is an Affected Lender, Agent shall have the right to request that Borrower or such Affected Lender cash collateralize, in form and substance satisfactory to Agent, such Swing Loans so as to eliminate or mitigate the reimbursement risk with respect to such Affected Lender.
 
6.
                                      
Amendment to Interest Provisions
.  Section 2.3 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete subsection (c) therefrom and to insert in place thereof the following:
 
(c)
                                 
Default Rate
.  Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, if an Event of Default shall occur, upon the election of Agent or the Required Lenders (i) the principal of each Loan and the unpaid interest thereon shall bear interest, until paid, at the Default Rate, (ii) the fee for the aggregate undrawn amount of all issued and outstanding Letters of Credit shall be increased by two percent (2%) in excess of the rate otherwise applicable thereto (as specified in Section 2.2(b)(iii) or (iv) hereof), and (iii) in the case of any other amount not paid when due from Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document, such amount shall bear interest at the Default Rate; provided that, during an Event of Default under Section 7.1 or 7.10 hereof, the applicable Default Rate shall apply without any election or action on the part of Agent or any Lender.
 
7.
                                      
Addition to Funding of Loans Provisions
.  Section 2.5 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to add the following new subsection (e) at the end thereof:
 
(e)
                                 
Advancing of Non Pro-Rata Revolving Loans
.  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if Borrower requests a Revolving Loan pursuant to Section 2.5(a) hereof (and all conditions precedent set forth in Section 4.1 hereof are met) at a time when one or more Lenders are Defaulting Lenders, Agent shall have the option, in its sole discretion, to require (and, at the request of Borrower, shall require) the non-Defaulting Lenders to honor such request by making a non pro-rata Revolving Loan to Borrower in an amount equal to (i) the amount requested by Borrower, minus (ii) the portions of such Revolving Loan that should have been made by such Defaulting Lenders.  For purposes of such Revolving Loans, the Lenders that are making such Revolving Loan shall do so in proportion to their Commitment Percentages of the amount requested by Borrower.  For the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Loans made by a Lender (other than Swing Loans made
 
by the Swing Line Lender), when combined with such Lender's pro rata share, if any, of the Letter of Credit Exposure and the Swing Line Exposure, be in excess of the Maximum Amount for such Lender.
 
8.
                                      
Additions to Payment Provisions
.  Section 2.6 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to add the following new subsections (e) and (f) at the end thereof:
 
(e)
                                 
Affected Lender
.  To the extent that Agent receives any payments or other amounts for the account of an Affected Lender, at the option of Agent or Borrower, such Affected Lender shall be deemed to have requested that Agent use such payment or other amount (or any portion thereof, at the discretion of Agent) first, to cash collateralize its unfunded risk participation in Swing Loans and the Letters of Credit pursuant to Sections 2.2(b)(vi), 2.2(c)(iii), and 2.5(b) hereof, and, with respect to any Defaulting Lender, second, to fulfill its obligations to make Loans.
 
(f)
                                   
Payment of Non Pro-Rata Revolving Loans
.  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, at the sole discretion of Agent, in order to pay Revolving Loans that were not advanced pro rata by the Lenders, any payment of any Loan may first be applied to such Revolving Loans that were not advanced pro rata.
 
9.
                                      
Amendment to Prepayment Provisions
.  Section 2.7 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete subsection (a) therefrom and to insert in place thereof the following:
 
(a)
                                 
Right to Prepay
.
 
(i)
                                    
Borrower shall have the right at any time or from time to time to prepay, on a pro rata basis for all of the Lenders (except with respect to Swing Loans, which shall be paid to the Swing Line Lender), all or any part of the principal amount of the Loans, as designated by Borrower.  Such payment shall include interest accrued on the amount so prepaid to the date of such prepayment and any amount payable under Article III hereof with respect to the amount being prepaid.
 
(ii)
                                 
Borrower shall have the right, at any time or from time to time, to prepay, for the benefit of the Swing Line Lender (and any Lender that has purchased a participation in such Swing Loan), all or any part of the principal amount of the Swing Loans then outstanding, as designated by Borrower, plus interest accrued on the amount so prepaid to the date of such prepayment.
 
(iii)
                              
Notwithstanding anything in this Section 2.7 or otherwise to the contrary, at the discretion of Agent, in order to prepay Loans that were not advanced pro rata by all of the Lenders, any prepayment of a Loan shall first be applied to Loans made by the Lenders during any period in which a Defaulting Lender or Insolvent Lender shall exist.
10.
                                
Amendment to Fees Provisions
.  Section 2.8 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete subsection (b) therefrom and to insert in place thereof the following:
 
(b)
                                
Reserved.
 
11.
                                
Amendment to Modification of Commitment Provisions
.  Section 2.9 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete subsections (a) and (b) therefrom and to insert in place thereof, respectively, the following:
 
(a)
                                 
Optional Reduction of Commitment
.  Borrower may at any time and from time to time reduce in whole or ratably in part the Total Commitment Amount to an amount not less than the then existing Revolving Credit Exposure, by giving Agent not fewer than three Business Days' written notice of such reduction, provided that (i) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount, for all of the Lenders, of not less than Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000), increased by increments of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000), (ii) there shall be no more than two such reductions during any calendar year, and (iii) any such reduction that reduces the Total Commitment Amount to less than Two Hundred Million Dollars ($200,000,000) shall constitute a permanent reduction of the Total Commitment Amount and shall be effective during the remainder of the Commitment Period.  Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the date of each such reduction and such Lender's proportionate share thereof.  After each such reduction, the facility fees payable hereunder shall be calculated upon the Total Commitment Amount as so reduced.  If Borrower reduces in whole the Commitment, on the effective date of such reduction (Borrower having prepaid in full the unpaid principal balance, if any, of the Loans, together with all interest and facility, utilization and other fees accrued and unpaid, and provided that no Letter of Credit Exposure or Swing Line Exposure shall exist), all of the Notes shall be delivered to Agent marked "Canceled" and Agent shall redeliver such Notes to Borrower.  Any partial reduction in the Total Commitment Amount shall be effective during the remainder of the Commitment Period (provided that the Total Commitment Amount may thereafter be increased during the Commitment Increase Period pursuant to Section 2.9(b) hereof).  Upon each decrease of the Total Commitment Amount, the Maximum Commitment Amount shall be proportionally decreased.
 
(b)
                                
Increase in Commitment
.  At any time during the Commitment Increase Period, Borrower may request that Agent increase the Total Commitment Amount up to an amount that shall not exceed the Maximum Commitment Amount.  Each such request for an increase shall be in an amount of at least Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000), increased by increments of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000), and may be made by either (i) increasing, for one or more Lenders, with their prior written consent, their respective Revolving Credit Commitments, or (ii) including one or more Additional Lenders, each with a new commitment under the Revolving Credit Commitment, as a party to this Agreement (each an "Additional Commitment" and, collectively, the "Additional Commitments").  During the Commitment Increase Period, all of the Lenders agree that Agent, in its sole discretion, may permit one or more Additional Commitments upon satisfaction of the following requirements: (A) each Additional Lender, if any, shall be an
 
Eligible Transferee and shall execute an Additional Lender Assumption Agreement, (B) Agent shall provide to Borrower and each Lender a revised to this Agreement, including revised Commitment Percentages for each of the Lenders, if appropriate, at least three Business Days prior to the date of the effectiveness of such Additional Commitments (each an "Additional Lender Assumption Effective Date"), and (C) Borrower shall execute and deliver to Agent and the Lenders such replacement or additional Revolving Credit Notes as shall be required by Agent (and requested by the Lenders).  The Lenders hereby authorize Agent to execute each Additional Lender Assumption Agreement on behalf of the Lenders.  On each Additional Lender Assumption Effective Date, the Lenders shall make adjustments among themselves with respect to the Revolving Loans then outstanding and amounts of principal, interest, facility fees and other amounts paid or payable with respect thereto as shall be necessary, in the opinion of Agent, in order to reallocate among such Lenders such outstanding amounts, based on the revised Commitment Percentages and to otherwise carry out fully the intent and terms of this Section 2.9(b) (and Borrower shall pay to the Lenders any amounts that would cause a prepayment of one or more Eurodollar Loans)  In connection therewith, it is understood and agreed that the Maximum Amount of any Lender will not be increased (or decreased except pursuant to subsection (a) hereof) without the prior written consent of such Lender.  Borrower shall not request any increase in the Total Commitment Amount pursuant to this Section 2.9(b) if a Default or an Event of Default shall then exist, or immediately after giving pro forma effect to any such increase would exist.
Schedule 1
 
12.
                                
Amendment to Agency Provisions
.  Article IX of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete Sections 9.5, 9.6, 9.7, 9.8, 9.9 and 9.11 therefrom and to insert in place thereof, respectively, the following:
 
Section 9.5.  .  KeyBank and its affiliates may make loans to, issue letters of credit for the account of, accept deposits from, acquire equity interests in and generally engage in any kind of banking, trust, financial advisory, underwriting or other business with the Companies and Affiliates as though KeyBank were not Agent hereunder and without notice to or consent of any Lender.  Each Lender acknowledges that, pursuant to such activities, KeyBank or its affiliates may receive information regarding any Company or any Affiliate (including information that may be subject to confidentiality obligations in favor of such Company or such Affiliate) and acknowledge that Agent shall be under no obligation to provide such information to other Lenders.  With respect to Loans and Letters of Credit (if any), KeyBank and its affiliates shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though KeyBank were not Agent, and the terms "Lender" and "Lenders" include KeyBank and its affiliates, to the extent applicable, in their individual capacities.
Agent and Affiliates
 
Section 9.6.  .  Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default unless Agent has received written notice from a Lender or Borrower referring to this Agreement, describing such Default or Event of Default and stating that such notice is a "notice of default". In the event that Agent receives such a notice, Agent shall give notice thereof to
Knowledge or Notice of Default
 
the Lenders. Agent shall take such action with respect to such Default or Event of Default as shall be reasonably directed by the Required Lenders (or, if so specified by this Agreement, all Lenders); provided that, unless and until Agent shall have received such directions, Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking such action, with respect to such Default or Event of Default as it shall deem advisable, in its discretion, for the protection of the interests of the Lenders.
 
Section 9.7.  .  Subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, so long as Agent shall be entitled, pursuant to Section 9.6 hereof, to assume that no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, Agent shall be entitled to use its discretion with respect to exercising or refraining from exercising any rights that may be vested in it by, or with respect to taking or refraining from taking any action or actions that it may be able to take under or in respect of, this Agreement.  Agent shall incur no liability under or in respect of this Agreement by acting upon any notice, certificate, warranty or other paper or instrument believed by it to be genuine or authentic or to be signed by the proper party or parties, or with respect to anything that it may do or refrain from doing in the reasonable exercise of its judgment, or that may seem to it to be necessary or desirable in the premises.  Without limiting the foregoing, no Lender shall have any right of action whatsoever against Agent as a result of Agent's acting or refraining from acting hereunder in accordance with the instructions of the Required Lenders.
Action by Agent
 
Section 9.8.  .  In the event of a merger or consolidation or similar event, or as otherwise permitted pursuant to this Agreement, Agent, at the request and expense of Borrower, is hereby authorized by the Lenders to release a Guarantor of Payment in connection with such permitted event.
Release of Guarantor of Payment
 
Section 9.9.  .  The Lenders agree to indemnify Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by Borrower) ratably, according to their respective Commitment Percentages, from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses (including attorneys' fees) or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against Agent in its capacity as agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any action taken or omitted by Agent with respect to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, provided that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses (including attorneys' fees) or disbursements resulting from Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, or from any action taken or omitted by Agent in any capacity other than as agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document.  No action taken in accordance with the directions of the Required Lenders shall be deemed to constitute gross negligence or willful misconduct for purposes of this Section 9.9.  The undertaking in this Section 9.9 shall survive repayment of the Loans, cancellation of the Notes, if any, expiration or termination of the Letters of Credit, termination of the Commitment, any foreclosure under, or modification, release or discharge of, any or all of the Loan
Indemnification of Agent
 
Documents, termination of this Agreement and the resignation or replacement of the agent.
 
Section 9.11.  .  The financial institutions identified on the cover page of this Agreement or otherwise herein, or in any amendment hereof or other document related hereto, as being a "Joint Lead Arranger", "Syndication Agent" or "Bookrunner" (collectively, the "Other Agents") shall have no rights, powers, obligations, liabilities, responsibilities or duties under this Agreement other than, in the case of a Lender, those applicable to all Lenders as such.  Without limiting the foregoing, the Other Agents shall not have or be deemed to have any fiduciary relationship with any Lender.  Each Lender acknowledges that it has not relied, and will not rely, on the Other Agents in deciding to enter into this Agreement or in taking or refraining from taking any action hereunder or pursuant hereto.
Other Agents
 
13.
                                
Additions to Agent Provisions
.  Article IX of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to add the following new Sections 9.12, 9.13, 9.14 and 9.15 at the end thereof:
 
Section 9.12.  .  Agent may execute any of its duties under this Agreement or any other Loan Document by or through agents, employees or attorneys-in-fact and shall be entitled to advice of counsel and other consultants or experts concerning all matters pertaining to such duties.  Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any agent or attorney-in-fact that it selects in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct, as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Delegation of Duties
 
Section 9.13.  .  The Swing Line Lender shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Swing Loans.  The Swing Line Lender shall have all of the benefits and immunities (a) provided to Agent in this Article IX with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by the Swing Line Lender in connection with the Swing Loans as fully as if the term "Agent", as used in this Article IX, included the Swing Line Lender with respect to such acts or omissions, and (b) as additionally provided in this Agreement with respect to the Swing Line Lender.
Swing Line Lender
 
Section 9.14.  .  In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to any Credit Party, (a) Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether Agent shall have made any demand on Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, to (i) file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders and Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders and Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders and Agent) allowed in such judicial proceedings, and (ii) collect and receive any monies or
Agent May File Proofs of Claim
 
other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and (b) any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to Agent and, in the event that Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders, to pay to Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due Agent.  Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or to authorize Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
 
Section 9.15.  .  Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that neither such Lender, nor any of its affiliates, participants or assignees, may rely on Agent to carry out such Lender's or its affiliate's, participant's or assignee's customer identification program, or other obligations required or imposed under or pursuant to the Patriot Act or the regulations thereunder, including the regulations contained in 31 CFR 103.121 (as hereafter amended or replaced, the "CIP Regulations"), or any other anti-terrorism law, including any programs involving any of the following items relating to or in connection with Borrower, its Affiliates or agents, the Loan Documents or the transactions hereunder: (a) any identity verification procedures, (b) any record keeping, (c) any comparisons with government lists, (d) any customer notices or (e) any other procedures required under the CIP Regulations or such other laws.
No Reliance on Agent's Customer Identification Program
 
14.
                                
Amendment to Amendments and Consents Provisions
.  Article X of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete Section 10.3 therefrom and to insert in place thereof the following:
 
Section 10.3.
                            
Amendments, Consents
.
 
(a)
                                 
General Rule
.  No amendment, modification, termination, or waiver of any provision of any Loan Document nor consent to any variance therefrom, shall be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Required Lenders and, in the case of amendments or modifications, Borrower, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given.
 
(b)
                                
Exceptions to the General Rule
.  Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section 10.3:
 
(i)
                                    
Unanimous Consent Requirements
.  Unanimous consent of the Lenders shall be required with respect to (A) any increase in the Commitment hereunder (except as specified in Section 2.9(b) hereof), (B) the extension of maturity of the Loans, the payment date of interest or scheduled principal hereunder, or the payment date of facility fees payable hereunder, (C) any
 
reduction in the stated rate of interest on the Loans (provided that the institution of the Default Rate or post default interest and a subsequent removal of the Default Rate or post default interest shall not constitute a decrease in interest rate pursuant to this Section 10.3), or in any amount of interest or scheduled principal due on any Loan, or any reduction in the stated rate of facility fees payable hereunder or any change in the manner of pro rata application of any payments made by Borrower to the Lenders hereunder, (D) any change in any percentage voting requirement, voting rights, or the Required Lenders definition in this Agreement, (E) the release of Borrower or any Guarantor of Payment, except as specifically permitted hereunder, or (F) any amendment to this Section 10.3 or Section 8.5 hereof.
 
(ii)
                                 
Provisions Relating to Special Rights and Duties
.  No provision of this Agreement affecting Agent in its capacity as such shall be amended, modified or waived without the consent of Agent.  No provision of this Agreement relating to the rights or duties of the Fronting Lender in its capacity as such shall be amended, modified or waived without the consent of the Fronting Lender. No provision of this Agreement relating to the rights or duties of the Swing Line Lender in its capacity as such shall be amended, modified or waived without the consent of the Swing Line Lender.
 
(c)
                                 
Replacement of Non-Consenting Lender
.  If, in connection with any proposed amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, (i) the consent of all Lenders is required, but only the consent of Required Lenders is obtained, or (ii) the consent of Required Lenders is required, but the consent of the Required Lenders is not obtained (any Lender withholding consent as described in subsections (i) and (ii) hereof being referred to as a "Non-Consenting Lender"), then Agent may (and shall, if requested by Borrower), at the sole expense of Borrower, upon notice to such Non-Consenting Lender and Borrower, require such Non-Consenting Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with the restrictions contained in Section 10.10 hereof) all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an Eligible Transferee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); provided that such Non-Consenting Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from such Eligible Transferee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or Borrower (in the case of all other amounts, including any breakage compensation under Article III hereof).
 
(d)
                                
Generally
.  Notice of amendments, waivers or consents ratified by the Lenders hereunder shall be forwarded by Agent to all of the Lenders.  Each Lender or other holder of a Note, or if there is no Note, the holder of the interest as reflected on the books and records of Agent (or interest in any Loan or Letter of Credit) shall be bound by any amendment, waiver or consent obtained as authorized by this Section 10.3, regardless of its failure to agree thereto.
15.
                                
Additions to Miscellaneous Provisions
.  Article X of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to add the following new Sections 10.19, 10.20 and 10.21 at the end thereof:
 
Section 10.19.  .  Each Lender agrees that, during the time in which any Lender is an Affected Lender, Agent shall have the right (and Agent shall, if requested by Borrower), at the sole expense of Borrower, upon notice to such Affected Lender and Borrower, to require that such Affected Lender assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with the restrictions contained in Section 10.10 hereof), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an Eligible Transferee, approved by Borrower (unless an Event of Default shall exist) and Agent, that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); provided that such Affected Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder (recognizing that any Affected Lender may have given up its rights under this Agreement to receive payment of fees and other amounts pursuant to Section 2.6(e) and (f) hereof), from such Eligible Transferee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or Borrower (in the case of all other amounts, including any breakage compensation under Article III hereof).
Replacement of Affected Lenders
 
Section 10.20.  .  Borrower assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee of any Letter of Credit with respect to its use of such Letters of Credit.  Neither the Fronting Lender nor any of its officers or directors shall be liable or responsible for (a) the use that may be made of any Letter of Credit or any acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee in connection therewith; (b) the validity, sufficiency or genuineness of documents, or of any endorsement thereon, even if such documents should prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, fraudulent or forged; (c) payment by the Fronting Lender against presentation of documents that do not comply with the terms of a Letter of Credit, including failure of any documents to bear any reference or adequate reference to such Letter of Credit; or (d) any other circumstances whatsoever in making or failing to make payment under any Letter of Credit, except that the account party on such Letter of Credit shall have a claim against the Fronting Lender, and the Fronting Lender shall be liable to such account party, to the extent of any direct, but not consequential, damages suffered by such account party that such account party proves were caused by (i) the Fronting Lender's willful misconduct or gross negligence (as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction) in determining whether documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit, or (ii) the Fronting Lender's willful failure to make lawful payment under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it of documentation strictly complying with the terms and conditions of such Letter of Credit.  In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, the Fronting Lender may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation.
Limitations on Liability of the Fronting Lender
 
Section 10.21.  .  All attorneys, accountants, appraisers, consultants and other professional persons (including the firms or other entities on behalf of which any
No Duty
 
such Person may act) retained by Agent or any Lender with respect to the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents shall have the right to act exclusively in the interest of Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and shall have no duty of disclosure, duty of loyalty, duty of care, or other duty or obligation of any type or nature whatsoever to Borrower, any other Companies, or to any other Person, with respect to any matters within the scope of such representation or related to their activities in connection with such representation.  Borrower agrees, on behalf of itself and its Subsidiaries, not to assert any claim or counterclaim against any such persons with regard to such matters, all such claims and counterclaims, now existing or hereafter arising, whether known or unknown, foreseen or unforeseeable, being hereby waived, released and forever discharged.
 
16.
                                
Amendments to Schedules
.  The Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete (Commitments of Lenders), (Guarantors of Payment) and (Corporate Existence; Subsidiaries; Foreign Qualification) therefrom and to insert in place thereof, respectively, a new , and in the form of , and hereto.
Schedule 1
Schedule 2
Schedule 6.1
Schedule 1
Schedule 2
Schedule 6.1
Schedule 1
Schedule 2
Schedule 6.1
 
17.
                                
Reallocation of Outstanding Amounts
. On the Fourth Amendment Effective Date, the Lenders shall make adjustments among themselves with respect to the Loans then outstanding and amounts of principal with respect thereto as shall be necessary, in the opinion of Agent, in order to reallocate among such Lenders such outstanding amounts, based on the revised Commitments as set forth in the revised hereto.
Schedule 1
 
18.
                                
Closing Deliveries
.  Concurrently with the execution of this Amendment, Borrower shall:
 
(a)
                                 
deliver to Agent, for delivery to each Lender requesting a Revolving Credit Note, such Lender's Revolving Credit Note in the amount specified in to the Credit Agreement (after giving effect to this Amendment);
Schedule 1
 
(b)
                                
execute and deliver to Agent, for its sole benefit, the Fourth Amendment Agent Fee Letter, and pay to Agent the fees stated therein;
 
(c)
                                 
execute and deliver to J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, for its sole benefit, that certain J.P. Morgan Fee Letter, dated as of the Fourth Amendment Effective Date, and pay to J.P. Morgan Securities LLC the fees stated therein;
 
(d)
                                
execute and deliver to Agent, for the pro rata benefit of the Lenders, the Fourth Amendment Closing Fee Letter, and pay to Agent the fees stated therein;
 
(e)
                                 
deliver to Agent an officer's certificate (or comparable domestic documents) certifying the names of the officers of each Credit Party authorized to sign this Agreement, together with the true signatures of such officers and (i) certified copies of the resolutions of the board of directors (or comparable domestic documents) of such Credit Party evidencing approval of the execution and delivery of this Agreement, and
 
(ii) certified copies of the Organizational Documents of such Credit Party or confirmation that such Organizational Documents have not been amended since the Closing Date;
 
(f)
                                   
cause each Guarantor of Payment to execute the attached Guarantor Acknowledgement and Agreement; and
 
(g)
                                
pay all legal fees and expenses of Agent in connection with this Amendment and any other Loan Documents.
 
19.
                                
Representations and Warranties
.  Borrower hereby represents and warrants to Agent and the Lenders that (a) Borrower has the legal power and authority to execute and deliver this Amendment; (b) the officers executing this Amendment have been duly authorized to execute and deliver the same and bind Borrower with respect to the provisions hereof; (c) the execution and delivery hereof by Borrower and the performance and observance by Borrower of the provisions hereof do not violate or conflict with the Organizational Documents of Borrower or any law applicable to Borrower or result in a breach of any provision of or constitute a default under any other agreement, instrument or document binding upon or enforceable against Borrower; (d) no Default or Event of Default exists, nor will any occur immediately after the execution and delivery of this Amendment or by the performance or observance of any provision hereof; (e) each of the representations and warranties contained in the Loan Documents is true and correct in all material respects as of the Fourth Amendment Effective Date as if made on the Fourth Amendment Effective Date, except to the extent that any such representation or warranty expressly states that it relates to an earlier date (in which case such representation or warranty is true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date); (f) Borrower is not aware of any claim or offset against, or defense or counterclaim to, Borrower's obligations or liabilities under the Credit Agreement or any Related Writing; and (g) this Amendment constitutes a valid and binding obligation of Borrower in every respect, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy or insolvency laws or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally or by general principles of equity.
 
20.
                                
Waiver and Release
.  Borrower, by signing below, hereby waives and releases Agent, and each of the Lenders, and their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys, affiliates and subsidiaries, from any and all claims, offsets, defenses and counterclaims arising out of, or relating to, the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents of which Borrower is aware, such waiver and release being with full knowledge and understanding of the circumstances and effect thereof and after having consulted legal counsel with respect thereto.
 
21.
                                
References to Credit Agreement and Ratification
.  Each reference that is made in the Credit Agreement or any other Related Writing to the Credit Agreement shall hereafter be construed as a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby. Except as herein otherwise specifically provided, all terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement are confirmed and ratified and shall remain in full force and effect and be unaffected hereby. This Amendment is a Loan Document.
 
22.
                                
Counterparts
.  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, by different parties hereto in separate counterparts and by facsimile signature, each of which,
 
when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute but one and the same agreement.
 
23.
                                
Headings
.  The headings, captions and arrangements used in this Amendment are for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Amendment.
 
24.
                                
Severability
.  Any term or provision of this Amendment held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable shall not impair or invalidate the remainder of this Amendment and the effect thereof shall be confined to the term or provision so held to be invalid or unenforceable.
 
25.
                                
Governing Law
.  The rights and obligations of all parties hereto shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.
 
JURY TRIAL WAIVER
.  BORROWER, AGENT AND THE LENDERS, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EACH HEREBY WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO HAVE A JURY PARTICIPATE IN RESOLVING ANY DISPUTE, WHETHER SOUNDING IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, AMONG BORROWER, AGENT AND THE LENDERS, OR ANY THEREOF, ARISING OUT OF, IN CONNECTION WITH, RELATED TO, OR INCIDENTAL TO THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED AMONG THEM IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AMENDMENT OR ANY NOTE OR OTHER INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT EXECUTED OR DELIVERED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED THERETO.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed and delivered this Amendment as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cintas Corporation, a Washington corporation
 
Cintas Corporation No. 3, a Nevada corporation
 
Cintas Corp. No. 8, Inc., a Nevada corporation
 
Cintas Corp. No. 15, Inc., a Nevada corporation
 
Cintas  RUS, L.P., a Texas limited partnership
 
Cintas Corporate Services, Inc., an Ohio corporation
The undersigned consent and agree to and acknowledge the terms of the foregoing Fourth Amendment Agreement dated as of September 27, 2010.  The undersigned further agree that the obligations of the undersigned pursuant to the Guaranty of Payment executed by the undersigned are hereby ratified and shall remain in full force and effect and be unaffected hereby.
 
The undersigned hereby waive and release Agent and the Lenders and their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys, affiliates and subsidiaries from any and all claims, offsets, defenses and counterclaims of any kind or nature, absolute and contingent arising out of, or relating to, the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents, of which the undersigned are aware or should be aware, such waiver and release being with full knowledge and understanding of the circumstances and effect thereof and after having consulted legal counsel with respect thereto.
 
JURY TRIAL WAIVER
.  THE UNDERSIGNED, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, HEREBY WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO HAVE A JURY PARTICIPATE IN RESOLVING ANY DISPUTE, WHETHER SOUNDING IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, AMONG BORROWERS, AGENT, THE LENDERS AND THE UNDERSIGNED, OR ANY THEREOF, ARISING OUT OF, IN CONNECTION WITH, RELATED TO, OR INCIDENTAL TO THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED AMONG THEM IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AMENDMENT OR ANY NOTE OR OTHER INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT EXECUTED OR DELIVERED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED THERETO.
 
 
 


