FILE:CTAS/CTAS-8K-20111220162651.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On December 20, 2011, Cintas Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended November 30, 2011.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                 
Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
December 20, 2011
 
CINCINNATI, December 20, 2011  Cintas Corporation
(Nasdaq:CTAS) today reported results for its second quarter ended November 30, 2011.  Revenue was a record $1.019 billion, representing an 8.8% increase compared to last year's second quarter.  Organic growth, which adjusts for the impact of acquisitions, was 7.0%.
 
The Company's second quarter operating income of $132.7 million was a 29.6% improvement as compared to last year's second quarter.  This is the fourth consecutive quarter that operating income grew in excess of 25% over the comparable prior year quarter.  Net income increased 33.1% to $74.4 million as compared to $55.9 million in last year's second quarter.  Earnings per diluted share for the second quarter were $0.57, a 50.0% increase over the $0.38 earnings per diluted share reported in last year's second quarter.
 
Scott D. Farmer, Chief Executive Officer, stated, "Revenue momentum continued throughout this quarter in our Rental Uniforms and Ancillary Products operating segment as well as in our First Aid, Safety and Fire Protection Services operating segment.  Unfortunately, our Document Management Services operating segment lost some momentum this quarter due to a steep decline in recycled paper prices and the difficult European economic environment."
 
Mr. Farmer added, "Our talented team of employees, who we call partners, continued to execute our plan of selling profitable business, managing our cost structure and improving efficiencies through process improvement.  This execution led to an operating margin of 13.0%, an impressive improvement over last year's second quarter operating margin of 10.9% and this year's first quarter operating margin of 12.6%."
 
The effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 was 35.5%, which reflected the resolution of certain tax audits.  Last year's second quarter effective tax rate was 38.3%.  We expect the effective tax rate for the entire 2012 fiscal year to be approximately 37.0%, as compared to 37.1% for the entire 2011 fiscal year.
 
Mr. Farmer concluded, "We entered our second fiscal quarter with a fair amount of uncertainty about the U.S. economy.  Clearly, we are pleased that our business remained strong throughout the quarter.  While we remain cautious about the U.S. economic picture, we have more confidence about our ability to execute in this less than robust environment.  As a result, we are updating our fiscal 2012 guidance with revenue in the range of $4.075 billion to $4.125 billion and earnings per diluted share in the range of $2.16 to $2.20.  This guidance assumes no deterioration in the current U.S. economy and that energy related costs and recycled paper prices remain at levels experienced at the end of our second quarter."
 
About Cintas
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Cintas Corporation provides highly specialized services to businesses of all types primarily throughout North America. Cintas designs, manufactures and implements corporate identity uniform programs, and provides entrance mats, restroom supplies, promotional products, first aid, safety, fire protection products and services and document management services for approximately 900,000 businesses. Cintas is a publicly held company traded over the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol CTAS and is a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index.
 
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "estimates," "anticipates," "predicts," "projects," "plans," "expects," "intends," "target," "forecast," "believes," "seeks," "could," "should," "may" and "will" or the negative versions thereof and similar words, terms and expressions and by the context in which they are used.  Such statements are based upon current expectations of Cintas and speak only as of the date made.  You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement.  We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized.  These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties, potentially inaccurate assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in or implied by this Press Release.  Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs including energy and fuel costs, lower sales volumes, loss of customers due to outsourcing trends, the performance and costs of integration of acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor including increased medical costs, costs and possible effects of union organizing activities, failure to comply with government regulations concerning employment discrimination, employee pay and benefits and employee health and safety, uncertainties regarding any existing or newly-discovered expenses and liabilities related to environmental compliance and remediation, the cost, results and ongoing assessment of internal controls for financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, disruptions caused by the inaccessibility of computer systems data, the initiation or outcome of litigation, investigations or other proceedings, higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of products, the disruption of operations from catastrophic or extraordinary events, the amount and timing of repurchases of our common stock, if any, changes in federal and state tax and labor laws, the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service and the finalization of our financial statements for the quarter ended November 30, 2011.  Cintas undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to any forward-looking statements or to otherwise update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information or to reflect events, circumstances or any other unanticipated developments arising after the date on which such statements are made.  A further list and description of risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2011 and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.  The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties presently not known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also harm our business.
 
For additional information, contact:
 
William C. Gale, Sr. Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer  513-573-4211
 
J. Michael Hansen, Vice President and Treasurer  513-701-2079
 
 
 
 
CINTAS CORPORATION SUPPLEMENTAL DATA
 
 
 
Note: Management uses free cash flow to assess the financial performance of the Company.  Management believes that free cash flow is useful to investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue, improve and grow business operations.
 
 
 
 
 


