FILE:CTAS/CTAS-8K-20120320163019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On March 20, 2012, Cintas Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended February 29, 2012.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                 
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
March 20, 2012
 
CINCINNATI, March 20, 2012  Cintas Corporation
(Nasdaq:CTAS) today reported results for its third quarter ended February 29, 2012.  Revenue for the third quarter was $1.01 billion, representing a 7.9% increase compared to last year's third quarter.  Organic growth, which adjusts for the impact of acquisitions and the impact of one additional workday compared to last year's third quarter, was 5.9%.  Recycled paper prices, which declined rapidly during our second fiscal quarter, remained at a relatively low level and negatively impacted revenue growth in our Document Management segment.  This decline in recycled paper prices negatively impacted consolidated revenue growth by $5.6 million, or 0.6%, compared to last year's third quarter.
 
The Company's third quarter operating income of $137.5 million was a 26.3% improvement as compared to last year's third quarter.  Net income increased 28.7% to $76.0 million as compared to $59.1 million in last year's third quarter.  Earnings per diluted share for the third quarter were $0.58, a 41.5% increase over the $0.41 earnings per diluted share reported in last year's third quarter.  This was the fifth consecutive quarter that operating income and earnings per diluted share grew in excess of 25%.
 
Scott D. Farmer, Chief Executive Officer, stated, "Our results continue to reflect our focus on selling value and growing our business profitably.  This high quality growth led us to our third quarter operating margin of 13.6%, which is a nice improvement over both last year's third quarter operating margin of 11.6% and our second quarter operating margin of 13.0%.  Our Rental Uniforms and Ancillary Products operating segment, which accounts for 71% of our consolidated revenue, had an operating margin of 15.6%, an improvement over the 12.9% operating margin from last year's third quarter."
 
Mr. Farmer added, "We continue to be pleased with the performance of all of our businesses and the execution of our game plan by our very talented team of employees, who we call partners."
 
The effective tax rates for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 were 37.0% and 38.9%, respectively.  We expect the effective tax rate for the entire 2012 fiscal year to be approximately 37.0%, as compared to 37.1% for the entire 2011 fiscal year.
 
Mr. Farmer concluded, "As we enter our fourth quarter, we remain confident in our ability to execute our game plan of selling profitable business, managing our cost structure and improving efficiencies through process improvement.  As a result, we are updating our fiscal 2012 guidance with revenue in the range of $4.09 billion to $4.12 billion and earnings per diluted share in the range of $2.24 to $2.27.  This guidance assumes no significant deterioration in the current U.S. economy."
 
 
About Cintas
 
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Cintas Corporation provides highly specialized services to businesses of all types primarily throughout North America. Cintas designs, manufactures and implements corporate identity uniform programs, and provides entrance mats, restroom supplies, promotional products, first aid, safety, fire protection products and services and document management services for approximately 900,000 businesses. Cintas is a publicly held company traded over the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol CTAS and is a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index.
 
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "estimates," "anticipates," "predicts," "projects," "plans," "expects," "intends," "target," "forecast," "believes," "seeks," "could," "should," "may" and "will" or the negative versions thereof and similar words, terms and expressions and by the context in which they are used.  Such statements are based upon current expectations of Cintas and speak only as of the date made.  You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement.  We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized.  These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties, potentially inaccurate assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in or implied by this Press Release.  Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs including energy and fuel costs, lower sales volumes, loss of customers due to outsourcing trends, the performance and costs of integration of acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor including increased medical costs, costs and possible effects of union organizing activities, failure to comply with government regulations concerning employment discrimination, employee pay and benefits and employee health and safety, uncertainties regarding any existing or newly-discovered expenses and liabilities related to environmental compliance and remediation, the cost, results and ongoing assessment of internal controls for financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, disruptions caused by the inaccessibility of computer systems data, the initiation or outcome of litigation, investigations or other proceedings, higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of products, the disruption of operations from catastrophic or extraordinary events, the amount and timing of repurchases of our common stock, if any, changes in federal and state tax and labor laws, the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service and the finalization of our financial statements for the quarter ended February 29, 2012.  Cintas undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to any forward-looking statements or to otherwise update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information or to reflect events, circumstances or any other unanticipated developments arising after the date on which such statements are made.  A further list and description of risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2011 and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.  The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties presently not known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also harm our business.
 
For additional information, contact:
 
William C. Gale, Sr. Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer  513-573-4211
 
J. Michael Hansen, Vice President and Treasurer  513-701-2079
 
 
 
 
 
CINTAS CORPORATION SUPPLEMENTAL DATA
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Regulation G Disclosure
 
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.  To supplement its consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the Company provides additional measures of operating performance that may be considered non-GAAP financial measures.  The Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are appropriate to enhance understanding of its past performance as well as prospects for future performance.  A reconciliation of the differences between these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is shown below.
 
Management believes organic growth adjusted for the number of workdays allows investors to review our results on a comparable basis.
 
 
 
Note:
                  
Management uses free cash flow to assess the financial performance of the Company.  Management believes that free cash flow is useful to investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue, improve and grow business operations.
 
 
 
 
 


