FILE:CTAS/CTAS-8K-20121220165135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
Current Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) December 20, 2012
Cintas Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(513) 459-1200
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
    
On December 20, 2012, Cintas Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended November 30, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
            
    
December 20, 2012
Cintas Corporation Announces Fiscal 2013 Second Quarter Results
CINCINNATI, December 20, 2012 -- Cintas Corporation
(Nasdaq:CTAS) today reported results for its second quarter ended November 30, 2012. Revenue for the second quarter was $1.06 billion, representing a 4.0% increase compared to last year's second quarter. Organic growth, which adjusts for the impact of acquisitions, compared to last year's second quarter, was 3.4%. Recycled paper prices remained lower than last year, and this negatively impacted second quarter consolidated revenue by $5.5 million, or 0.6%, compared to last year's second quarter.
The Company's operating income of $139.0 million was a 4.8% increase as compared to last year's second quarter. Net income increased 4.9% to $78.0 million as compared to $74.4 million in last year's second quarter. Earnings per diluted share (EPS) for the second quarter were $0.63, a 10.5% increase over the $0.57 earnings per diluted share in last year's second quarter.
Scott D. Farmer, Chief Executive Officer, stated, We continued to operate during the second quarter in a climate of much economic uncertainty. These uncertainties, largely regarding U.S. tax policies and changing healthcare regulation and costs, caused our customers to be very cautious about both spending and hiring.
The Company's balance sheet and cash flow remain very strong. Cash and marketable securities totaled $276.3 million at November 30, 2012. Cash flow from operations in the first half of fiscal 2013 improved to $227.3 million, a 29.2% increase over the first half of last fiscal year. As of November 30, 2012, the Company's current ratio was 2.7 to one, and its debt to EBITDA was 1.9 to one.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2013, the Company purchased 1.9 million shares of its common stock at an aggregate cost of $81.1 million. While it had no impact on the second quarter EPS, this buyback is expected to benefit fiscal year 2013 EPS by approximately $0.01. The Cintas Board of Directors authorized a $500.0 million share buyback program in October 2011. As of November 30, 2012, the Company had $218.7 million available under the current Board authorization for future share repurchases.
Mr. Farmer added, Last week, we paid our annual dividend to our shareholders amounting to $0.64 per share, an 18.5% increase from last year's dividend of $0.54 per share. Our consistently strong operating results have allowed us to continue to increase our dividend while executing our stock buyback program, demonstrating our continued commitment to increase shareholder value.
Mr. Farmer concluded, Based on our second quarter results and the uncertain U.S. economic climate, we are updating our fiscal 2013 revenue expectations to be in the range of $4.275 billion to $4.325 billion. We are not changing our EPS guidance, which is an expectation of fiscal 2013 EPS to be in the range of $2.50 to $2.58. This guidance assumes no further deterioration in the U.S. economy and does not consider any additional share buybacks.
About Cintas
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Cintas Corporation provides highly specialized services to businesses of all types primarily throughout North America. Cintas designs, manufactures and implements corporate identity uniform programs, and provides entrance mats, restroom supplies, promotional products, first aid, safety, fire protection products and services and document management services for over one million businesses. Cintas is a publicly held company traded over the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol CTAS and is a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index.
CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as estimates, anticipates, predicts, projects, plans, expects, intends, target, forecast, believes, seeks, could, should, may and will or the negative versions thereof and similar words, terms and expressions and by the context in which they are used. Such statements are based upon current expectations of Cintas and speak only as of the date made. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties, potentially inaccurate assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in or implied by this Press Release. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs including energy and fuel costs, lower sales volumes, loss of customers due to outsourcing trends, the performance and costs of integration of acquisitions, fluctuations in costs of materials and labor including increased medical costs, costs and possible effects of union organizing activities, failure to comply with government regulations concerning employment discrimination, employee pay and benefits and employee health and safety, uncertainties regarding any existing or newly-discovered expenses and liabilities related to environmental compliance and remediation, the cost, results and ongoing assessment of internal controls for financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, disruptions caused by the inaccessibility of computer systems data, the initiation or outcome of litigation, investigations or other proceedings, higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of products, the disruption of operations from catastrophic or extraordinary events, the amount and timing of repurchases of our common stock, if any, changes in federal and state tax and labor laws, the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service and the finalization of our financial statements for the quarter ended November 30, 2012. Cintas undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to any forward-looking statements or to otherwise update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information or to reflect events, circumstances or any other unanticipated developments arising after the date on which such statements are made. A further list and description of risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2012 and in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties presently not known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also harm our business.
For additional information, contact:
William C. Gale, Sr. Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer - 513-573-4211
J. Michael Hansen, Vice President and Treasurer - 513-701-2079
 
Cintas Corporation
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Income
(Unaudited)
(In thousands except per share data)
 
Cintas Corporation
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Income
(Unaudited)
(In thousands except per share data)
CINTAS CORPORATION SUPPLEMENTAL DATA
Computation of Free Cash Flow
Note: Management uses free cash flow to assess the financial performance of the Company.  Management believes that free cash flow is useful to investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the Company to the capital that is spent to continue, improve and grow business operations.
Cintas Corporation
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In thousands except share data)
Cintas Corporation
Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
(Unaudited)
(In thousands)
 


