Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward looking statements can often be identified by the use of forward looking words, such as may, will, could, should, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project or other similar words. General Xilinx, Inc. (Xilinx or the Company) designs, develops and markets complete programmable logic solutions, including advanced integrated circuits (ICs), software design tools, predefined system functions delivered as intellectual property (IP) cores, design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. The programmable logic devices (PLDs) include field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) and complex programmable logic devices (CPLDs). These devices are standard products that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. Our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time to market for electronic equipment manufacturers primarily in the communications, storage, server, consumer, industrial and other markets. We sell our products globally through a direct sales management organization, direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) by a network of independent sales representative firms and franchised domestic and foreign distributors. Xilinx was organized in California in February 1984 and in November 1985 was reorganized to incorporate our research and development limited partnership. In April 1990, the Company reincorporated in Delaware. In November 2000, the Company completed its acquisition of RocketChips, Inc. (RocketChips), a privately held fabless semiconductor company. Our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 Logic Drive, San Jose, California 95124 and our website address is www.xilinx.com. Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. For ease of presentation, March 31 has been utilized as the fiscal year end for all financial statement information. Fiscal 2003 ended on March 29, 2003 while fiscal 2002 and 2001 ended on March 30, 2002 and March 31, 2001, respectively. Market Background There are three principal types of ICs used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. Almost every electronic system contains application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), which include custom gate arrays, standard cells and programmable logic. These devices all compete with each other since they may be utilized in the same types of applications within electronic systems. However, variables in pricing, product performance, reliability, power consumption, density, adaptability, ease of use and time to market determine the degree to which the devices compete for specific applications. Programmable logic has a primary advantage over custom gate arrays and standard cells in that it enables faster time to market with shorter design cycles. Users of PLDs can program their design directly into the PLD, using software, thereby allowing customers to make revisions to their designs relatively quickly and with lower development costs. Since PLDs are programmable, they typically have a larger die size resulting in higher costs per unit compared to custom gate arrays and standard cells, which are customized with a fixed function during wafer fabrication. Custom gate arrays and standard cells, however, generally require longer fabrication lead times and higher up front costs than PLDs. PLDs are standard components. This means that the same device type can be sold to many different customers for many different applications. As a result, the development cost of PLDs can be spread over a large number of customers. Custom gate arrays and standard cells, on the other hand, are custom chips for an individual customer for use in a specific application. This involves a high up front cost to customers. Technology advances are enabling PLD companies to reduce costs considerably. This factor makes PLDs an increasingly attractive alternative to custom gate arrays and standard cells. 3 Table of Contents Products Integral to the future success of our business is the timely introduction of new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively with respect to price, functionality and performance. Software design tools, IP cores, technical support and design services are also critical components that enable our customers to implement their design specifications into our PLDs. Altogether, these products form a comprehensive programmable logic solution. A brief overview of these products follows. Virtex II Pro Platform FPGAs: The Virtex II Pro FPGA family, introduced in March 2002, consists of ten members with densities ranging from 3,000 to 125,000 logic cells (300,000 to 13 million system gates.) The family has up to two IBM PowerPC processors, up to 24 Rocket I/O multi gigabit transceivers, up to ten megabits of embedded memory, embedded software design tools and operating system support. Virtex II Pro devices are delivered on 300mm wafers employing 130 nanometer copper process technology and 1.2 volts. The width of individual transistors on a chip is measured in nanometers. One nanometer equals one billionth of a meter. The Virtex II Pro solution enables ultra high bandwidth system on a chip (SoC) designs that were previously the exclusive domain of custom ASICs. This family is expected to enable leading edge system architectures in networking applications, storage systems, wireless base stations, embedded systems, professional broadcast and digital signal processing (DSP) systems. In addition, the Virtex II Pro family is supported by Virtex II Pro EasyPath devices, which enable up to 80% cost reduction compared to the standard FPGA device with no conversion risk to the customer. This permits the customer to move to higher unit volumes without switching to ASICs. Virtex II Pro EasyPath devices are FPGAs that have been custom tested for a specific customer application. These devices are available only for the highest density members of the Virtex II Pro family and customers using these devices must meet certain minimum order requirements. Virtex II Platform FPGAs: The Virtex II FPGA family, introduced in January 2001, is a complete platform for programmable logic that allows digital system designers to rapidly implement a single chip solution with densities from 40,000 up to 8 million system gates. The Virtex II FPGA family has eleven 1.5 volt devices shipping on 150 nanometer process technology. In March 2002, the Virtex II EasyPath solution was introduced. Virtex II EasyPath devices enable up to an 80% cost reduction compared to the standard FPGA device with no conversion risk to the customer. As with Virtex II Pro EasyPath devices, these are available only for the highest density members of the Virtex II FPGA family and customers using them must meet certain minimum order requirements. Virtex FPGAs: The first generation of the Virtex architecture includes the Virtex E FPGA family and Virtex FPGA family. The Virtex E FPGA family, introduced in September 1999, consists of 11 members, with densities from 50,000 to 3.2 million system gates. Virtex E FPGAs feature 1.8 volt operation and are delivered on 180 nanometer process technology. The Virtex FPGA family, introduced in October 1998, includes nine 2.5 volt Virtex devices that are currently in production on 220 nanometer process technology with densities ranging from 50,000 to 1 million system gates. Spartan 3 FPGAs: In April 2003, we introduced the Spartan 3 FPGA family, the first PLD family shipping on 90 nanometer process technology. The Spartan 3 family consists of eight devices with densities up to 5 million system gates operating at 1.2 volts. Spartan 3 is the lowest cost FPGA in the marketplace. These devices are programmable alternatives to ASICs that address customer demand for low cost solutions. Spartan 3 addresses a larger range of cost sensitive high volume applications than prior Spartan family generations and opens up new consumer electronic market opportunities for programmable logic. 4 Table of Contents Spartan II FPGAs The Spartan IIE, introduced in November 2001, has seven members shipping in volume with densities up to 600,000 system gates on 150 nanometer process technology operating at 1.8 volts. Spartan II, introduced in January 2000, has seven members shipping with densities up to 200,000 system gates on 180 nanometer process technology operating at 2.5 volts. Spartan FPGAs The SpartanXL family consists of five members with up to 40,000 system gates on 250 nanometer process technology operating at 3.3 volts. The original Spartan family was introduced in early 2000. It has five members shipping in volume with densities up to 40,000 system gates on 350 nanometer process technology operating at 3.5 volts. XC4000 FPGAs: The XC4000 family, introduced in 1990, was the first FPGA offering on board distributed RAM. The XC4000 became an industry standard and was the Companys fastest growing programmable logic family until the Virtex family was introduced in October 1998. The XC4000 family consists of a number of generations manufactured on 250 to 600 nanometer process technologies. CPLDs: The XC9500, XC9500XL and XC9500XV families offer high speed, low cost and in system programmability for 5.0 volt, 3.3 volt and 2.5 volt systems, respectively. In August 1999, we acquired Philips Semiconductors line of low power CPLDs called the CoolRunner family of devices. The CoolRunner XPLA3 3.3 volt line was the first family of CPLD products to combine very low power with high speed, high density and high I/O counts in a single device. This family has six devices shipping with densities ranging from 32 to 512 macrocells and is manufactured using 350 nanometer process technology. CoolRunner CPLDs also use far less dynamic power during actual operation compared to conventional CPLDs, an important feature for todays mobile computing applications. In January 2002, Xilinx introduced the CoolRunner II family, a next generation 1.8 volt family with six devices shipping with densities ranging from 32 to 512 macrocells manufactured using 180 nanometer process technology. CoolRunner II CPLDs contain enhanced power management and system features at no performance or cost penalty to the customer. We believe this new class of devices is ideal for both performance intensive applications as well as the large portable and wireless markets. Support Products: We offer complete software solutions that enable customers to implement their design specifications into our PLDs. These software design tools combine a powerful technology with a flexible, easy to use graphical interface to help achieve the best possible designs within each customers project schedule, regardless of the designers experience level. Our software design tools operate on personal computers running Microsoft Windows 2000, XP and Linux operating systems, and on workstations from Sun Microsystems running Solaris. The Xilinx ISE (Integrated Software Environment) family is available in four configurations to fit a wide range of customer needs. ISE also integrates with a wide range of third party electronic design automation (EDA) software offerings and point tool solutions to deliver what we believe to be the most flexible design environment available. The four ISE configurations are listed below: ISE Foundation offers the most complete logic design environment for the customer who desires one logic solution from a single vendor. ISE BaseX targets a smaller device range at a lower price point for the cost conscious customer who does not require the full power of ISE Foundation. 5 Table of Contents ISE Alliance is tailored for customers who want maximum design flexibility by integrating ISE into their existing EDA environment and methodology. ISE WebPACK free downloadable design and implementation modules are available for customers who use only smaller devices and a minimal set of design tools. All of the Xilinx FPGA and CPLD device families are supported by ISE, including the newest device families CoolRunner II, Spartan 3 and Virtex II Pro. We also offer IP cores for commonly used complex functions such as DSP, bus interfaces, processors and processor peripherals. Our IP core products are listed below: Using LogiCORE products, which are developed and supported by Xilinx, together with AllianceCORE IP cores from third party participants, enable customers to shorten development time, reduce design risk and obtain superior performance for their designs. LogiCORE products include PCI Express, 10Gb Ethernet core and MicroBlaze, a 32 bit soft processor core. CORE Generator system allows customers to implement IP cores into our PLDs with predictable and repeatable performance. System Generator for DSP tool allows system architects to quickly model and implement DSP functions, and features an interface to third party system level DSP design tools. IP Center Internet portal offers customers the ability to purchase a license online for the latest intellectual property cores and reference designs. Through our Configuration Solutions Group, Xilinx offers a range of one time programmable and in system programmable storage devices to configure Xilinx FPGAs. Our 17xx family is a one time programmable solution that ranges in density up to 16 megabits, and the 18xx family is our in system programmable flash PROM (programmable read only memory) that ranges in density up to 4 megabits. Our PROM solution continues to offer higher densities and low cost and targets all FPGA designs. To extend our customers technical capabilities and shorten our customers design time, we offer a portfolio of Global services, which consists of Education, Design and Support, in addition to mysupport.xilinx.com, a personalized online technical resource. Education Services consist of hands on, lab based, multi day courses from fundamental to expert skill levels, designed to make our customers proficient at high speed logic and system design. Design Services help shorten customers time to market by augmenting their design teams with Xilinxs industry experts in FPGA design techniques and solutions. Support Services enables our customers calls to get top priority from senior application engineers who have extensive design experience and a track record of solving complex problems. Customers can personalize their experience with support.xilinx.com, through the MySupport feature. They can access training courses, an answers database and forums with access to an experienced Xilinx team for assistance in troubleshooting and design issues. Please see information under the caption Results of Operations Net Revenues in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information about our revenues from our classes of products. Research and Development Our research and development activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ICs, the development of new software design tools for hardware and embedded software, cores of logic, advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes and ongoing cost reductions and performance improvements in existing products. Our primary areas of focus have been to: obtain density and performance leadership (Virtex II and Virtex II Pro FPGA devices); tightly integrate PowerPC microprocessors and multi gigabit transceivers (Virtex II Pro); design a low cost ASIC alternative FPGA solution (Spartan 3 devices); develop CPLD products (CoolRunner II families); and provide a cost reduction path for FPGA volume production (EasyPath Virtex II and Virtex II Pro devices). In software and IP cores, we released new versions of design tools (Foundation Series ISE software), as well as embedded software development tools (Embedded 6 Table of Contents Systems Development Kit (EDK)) cores of logic and a system level design environment for high performance DSP (System Generator for DSP). We collaborated with our foundry suppliers in the development of 130 and 90 nanometer complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) manufacturing technology and we believe we are one of the first companies in the industry to move aggressively to 300mm wafer technology for cost reduction. Our research and development challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost effective solutions for customers. In fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, our research and development expenses were $222.1 million, $204.8 million and $213.2 million, respectively. Excluding $6.4 million, $8.5 million and $4.5 million of non cash deferred stock compensation associated with the November 2000 acquisition of RocketChips, research and development expenses were $215.7 million, $196.3 million and $208.7 million in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. We expect to continue to make substantial investments in research and development. We believe technical leadership is essential to our future success and we are committed to continuing a significant level of research and development effort. However, there can be no assurance that any of our research and development efforts will be successful, timely or cost effective. Marketing and Sales We sell the majority of our products through several franchised domestic and foreign distributors. We also utilize a direct sales management organization and field applications engineers (FAEs) as well as independent sales representative firms. Our independent representatives generally address larger OEM customers and act as a direct sales force, while distributors generally provide vendor managed inventory and logistics for large OEM customers and also create demand within the balance of our customer base. Our sales and customer support personnel support all channels and consult with customers about their plans in an effort to ensure that the right solution is provided at the beginning of a customers project. The Memec Group (Memec) and Avnet, Inc. (Avnet) distribute our products worldwide. We also use other regional distributors throughout the world. From time to time, we may add or terminate distributors, as we deem appropriate given the level of business and their performance. We believe distributors provide a cost effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. Since PLDs are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. Revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the end customer. Distributors have certain rights of return and price protection privileges on unsold product. Please see our consolidated statements of operations, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for financial information about our net income (loss) for fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001. Please see Item 6. Selected Financial Data for information about our total assets for fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001. Backlog and Customers As of March 31, 2003, our backlog from OEM customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $145 million. As of March 31, 2002, our backlog from OEM customers and end customers was $140 million. Orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. As a result, end customer backlog to distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of net revenues in fiscal year 2003, 2002 or 2001. As of March 31, 2003, two distributors (Memec and Avnet) accounted for 49% and 34% of total accounts receivable, respectively. As of March 31, 2002, Memec and Avnet accounted for 48% and 30% of total accounts receivable, respectively. Memec accounted for 45%, 44% and 44% of worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Avnet accounted for 32%, 30% and 29% of worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Please see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for information about concentrations of credit risk. Please also see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for financial information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. 7 Table of Contents Wafer Fabrication We do not directly manufacture processed wafers used for our products. We employ a multiple foundry strategy with United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) and International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), both having state of the art foundries capable of producing 300mm wafers in the most advanced process technologies. Presently, our wafers are manufactured in Taiwan by UMC, in Japan by Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko) and in the United States by IBM. Precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between Xilinx and the wafer foundries. Our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ICs and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. We continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and or obtain additional capacity from both our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of leading edge process technologies. As a result, we have entered into agreements with UMC, Seiko and IBM as discussed below. In September 1995, Xilinx, UMC and other parties entered into a joint venture to construct a wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan, known as United Silicon Inc. (USIC) (see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information about our revenues from our classes of products. Research and Development Our research and development activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ICs, the development of new software design tools for hardware and embedded software, cores of logic, advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes and ongoing cost reductions and performance improvements in existing products. Our primary areas of focus have been to: obtain density and performance leadership (Virtex II and Virtex II Pro FPGA devices); tightly integrate PowerPC microprocessors and multi gigabit transceivers (Virtex II Pro); design a low cost ASIC alternative FPGA solution (Spartan 3 devices); develop CPLD products (CoolRunner II families); and provide a cost reduction path for FPGA volume production (EasyPath Virtex II and Virtex II Pro devices). In software and IP cores, we released new versions of design tools (Foundation Series ISE software), as well as embedded software development tools (Embedded 6 Table of Contents Systems Development Kit (EDK)) cores of logic and a system level design environment for high performance DSP (System Generator for DSP). We collaborated with our foundry suppliers in the development of 130 and 90 nanometer complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) manufacturing technology and we believe we are one of the first companies in the industry to move aggressively to 300mm wafer technology for cost reduction. Our research and development challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost effective solutions for customers. In fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, our research and development expenses were $222.1 million, $204.8 million and $213.2 million, respectively. Excluding $6.4 million, $8.5 million and $4.5 million of non cash deferred stock compensation associated with the November 2000 acquisition of RocketChips, research and development expenses were $215.7 million, $196.3 million and $208.7 million in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. We expect to continue to make substantial investments in research and development. We believe technical leadership is essential to our future success and we are committed to continuing a significant level of research and development effort. However, there can be no assurance that any of our research and development efforts will be successful, timely or cost effective. Marketing and Sales We sell the majority of our products through several franchised domestic and foreign distributors. We also utilize a direct sales management organization and field applications engineers (FAEs) as well as independent sales representative firms. Our independent representatives generally address larger OEM customers and act as a direct sales force, while distributors generally provide vendor managed inventory and logistics for large OEM customers and also create demand within the balance of our customer base. Our sales and customer support personnel support all channels and consult with customers about their plans in an effort to ensure that the right solution is provided at the beginning of a customers project. The Memec Group (Memec) and Avnet, Inc. (Avnet) distribute our products worldwide. We also use other regional distributors throughout the world. From time to time, we may add or terminate distributors, as we deem appropriate given the level of business and their performance. We believe distributors provide a cost effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. Since PLDs are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. Revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the end customer. Distributors have certain rights of return and price protection privileges on unsold product. Please see our consolidated statements of operations, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for financial information about our net income (loss) for fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001. Please see Item 6. Selected Financial Data for information about our total assets for fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001. Backlog and Customers As of March 31, 2003, our backlog from OEM customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $145 million. As of March 31, 2002, our backlog from OEM customers and end customers was $140 million. Orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. As a result, end customer backlog to distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of net revenues in fiscal year 2003, 2002 or 2001. As of March 31, 2003, two distributors (Memec and Avnet) accounted for 49% and 34% of total accounts receivable, respectively. As of March 31, 2002, Memec and Avnet accounted for 48% and 30% of total accounts receivable, respectively. Memec accounted for 45%, 44% and 44% of worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Avnet accounted for 32%, 30% and 29% of worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Please see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for information about concentrations of credit risk. Please also see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for financial information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. 7 Table of Contents Wafer Fabrication We do not directly manufacture processed wafers used for our products. We employ a multiple foundry strategy with United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) and International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), both having state of the art foundries capable of producing 300mm wafers in the most advanced process technologies. Presently, our wafers are manufactured in Taiwan by UMC, in Japan by Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko) and in the United States by IBM. Precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between Xilinx and the wafer foundries. Our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ICs and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. We continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and or obtain additional capacity from both our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of leading edge process technologies. As a result, we have entered into agreements with UMC, Seiko and IBM as discussed below. In September 1995, Xilinx, UMC and other parties entered into a joint venture to construct a wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan, known as United Silicon Inc. (USIC) (see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Cautionary Statement The statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis that are forward looking involve numerous risks and uncertainties and are based on current expectations. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements for many reasons, including those risks discussed under Factors Affecting Future Results and elsewhere in this document. Forward looking statements can often be identified by the use of forward looking words, such as may, will, could, should, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project, or other similar words. Nature of Operations Xilinx designs, develops and markets complete programmable logic solutions, including advanced ICs, software design tools, predefined system functions delivered as IP cores, design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. Our PLDs include FPGAs and CPLDs. These devices are standard products that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. Our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time to market for electronic equipment manufacturers primarily in the communications, storage, server, consumer, industrial and other markets. We market our products throughout the world through a direct sales management organization, direct sales to OEMs by independent sales representative firms, and sales through several franchised domestic and foreign distributors. Critical Accounting Policies The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has defined the most critical accounting policies as those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, our most critical policies include: valuation of financial instruments, which impacts gains (losses) on equity securities when we record impairments; revenue recognition, which impacts the recording of revenues; valuation of inventories, which impacts cost of revenues and gross margin; the assessment of recoverability of long lived assets including goodwill and other intangible assets, which impacts write offs of goodwill and other intangibles, and income taxes, which impacts the allocation of income and application of appropriate tax rates. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not have a material impact on our reported results of operations. Valuation of Financial Instruments The Companys short term and long term investments include investments in marketable equity and debt securities. The Company also has an equity investment in UMC, a public semiconductor wafer manufacturing company, of $209.3 million at March 31, 2003. In determining if and when a decline in market value below cost of these investments is other than temporary, as required by Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, Accounting for Certain Debt and Equity Securities (SFAS 115), the Company evaluates the market conditions, offering prices, trends of earnings, price multiples, and other key measures for our investments in marketable equity securities and debt instruments. When such a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, the Company recognizes an impairment loss in the current period operating results to the extent of the decline. Due to the slowdown in the semiconductor industry and economic recession in fiscal 2002 and 2001, the market value of the Companys UMC investment declined significantly. These declines were deemed to be other than temporary and pre tax losses of $191.9 million and $362.1 million, respectively, were recognized. If the slowdown in the semiconductor industry continues in fiscal 2004 or beyond, the Company may recognize additional losses on these investments. 15 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition Sales to distributors are made under agreements providing price protection and rights of return under certain circumstances. Revenue and costs relating to distributor sales are deferred until products are sold by the distributors to customers. Accounts receivable from distributors are recognized and inventory is relieved upon shipment as title to inventories generally transfers upon shipment at which point we have a legally enforceable right to collection under normal payment terms. Revenue recognition depends on notification from the distributor that product has been sold to the end customer. Reported information includes product price, quantity and end customer shipment information, as well as Xilinx monthly inventory on hand. Inventory numbers are subsequently reconciled to deferred revenue balances. Xilinx maintains system controls to validate the data and verify the reported information. Revenue from sales to our direct customers is recognized upon shipment provided that persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, the price is fixed, title has transferred, collection of resulting receivables is reasonably assured, there are no customer acceptance requirements and there are no remaining significant obligations. For each of the periods presented, there were no formal acceptance provisions with our end customers. Revenue from software term licenses is deferred and recognized as revenue over the term of the licenses, generally one year. Revenue from support services is recognized when the service is provided. Allowances for end customer sales returns are recorded based on historical experience and for any specific known pending customer returns or allowances. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (determined using the first in, first out method), or market. The Companys standard cost policy is to continuously review and set standard costs at current manufacturing costs. Predicting future manufacturing yields and wafer price reductions is difficult and actual results could differ materially, impacting gross margins. The Company mitigates this risk, in part, through a formal pricing strategy that it incorporates into future product pricing decisions. Our manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of projected spending over projected volumes. Given the cyclicality of the market and the obsolescence of technology and shorter product life cycles, the Company writes down inventory to net realizable value based on backlog and forecasted demand. The decision to write down inventory is based on estimated future demand for our products within specific time horizons, which is generally nine months. The estimates of future demand that we use in the valuation of inventory are the basis for our revenue forecast, which is also consistent with our short term manufacturing plan. If our demand forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, we could be required to record additional inventory write downs, which would have a negative impact on gross margins. During fiscal 2002 and 2001, we had significant write downs of inventory due to a sharp decrease in backlog and forecasted demand due to the worldwide economic slowdown. In addition, Xilinx had a significant standards revision resulting from lower manufacturing costs. The Companys reserve policy for new products is to reserve all inventory until the devices are production released. Long Lived Assets Including Goodwill We adopted SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations (SFAS 141) and No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142) effective the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2003. Accordingly, for fiscal 2003 and future years, we no longer amortize goodwill from acquisitions, but will continue to amortize other acquisition related intangibles. Consequently, we expect amortization of intangibles to be approximately $9.7 million for fiscal 2004 compared with $15.3 million for fiscal 2003 and down from $49.0 million of amortization of goodwill and other acquisition related intangibles in fiscal 2002. We completed the initial goodwill impairment review for the RocketChips acquisition, which represents the Companys only unamortized goodwill, as of the beginning of fiscal 2003, and completed the annual review during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, and found no impairment. At March 31, 2003, the net book value of acquisition related intangibles for the RocketChips acquisition totaled $119.2 million, comprised of unamortized goodwill of $100.7 million and other acquisition related intangibles of $18.5 million. According to our accounting policy under the new rules, we will perform a similar review annually or earlier if indicators of potential impairment exist. We evaluate the carrying value of long lived assets and acquired intangibles including goodwill on an annual basis, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. When indicators of impairment exist and assets are held for use, we estimate 16 Table of Contents future undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets. In the event such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the recorded value of the assets, the assets are written down to their estimated fair values based on the expected discounted future cash flows attributable to the assets. When assets are removed from operations and held for sale, we estimate impairment losses as the excess of the carrying value of the assets over their fair value. The estimates we have used are consistent with the plans and estimates that we are using to manage the underlying businesses. If we fail to deliver new products, if the products fail to gain expected market acceptance, or if market conditions in the telecommunications businesses fail to improve, our revenue and cost forecasts may not be achieved, and we may incur charges for impairment of goodwill. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (SFAS 144), the Company recognized a $54.7 million impairment loss on excess facilities and equipment in the third quarter of fiscal 2003, primarily for excess facilities owned in San Jose, California. Income Taxes Xilinx is a multinational corporation operating in multiple tax jurisdictions. Xilinx must determine the allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on estimates and assumptions, and apply the appropriate tax rates for these jurisdictions. Xilinx undergoes routine audits by taxing authorities regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Tax audits often require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments if changes to the allocation are required between jurisdictions with different tax rates. In determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain of the deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. We must assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a reserve, in the form of a valuation allowance, for the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. As of March 31, 2003, we believe that all of our recorded deferred tax assets will ultimately be recovered. However, should there be a change in our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, our tax provision would increase in the period in which we determine that the recovery is not probable. Results of Operations Net Revenues 2003 Change 2002 Change 2001 (In thousands) Net revenues $ 1,155,977 13.8% $ 1,015,579 (38.8)% $ 1,659,358 We classify our product offerings into three categories by semiconductor manufacturing process technology: Advanced, Mainstream and Base Products. These three product categories are adjusted on a regular basis to accommodate advances in our process technology. The most recent adjustment was on April 1, 2001. Advanced Products include our newest technologies manufactured on 180 nanometer and smaller process technologies, which include the Spartan II, Spartan IIE, Spartan 3, Virtex E, Virtex II, Virtex II Pro, Virtex II EasyPath and CoolRunner II product lines. Mainstream Products are currently manufactured on 220 to 350 nanometer process technologies and include the Virtex, XC4000XL, XC4000XLA, XC4000XV, XC9500XL, XC9500XV, SpartanXL and CoolRunner product lines. Base Products consist of our mature product families that are currently manufactured on process technologies of 500 nanometer and larger; this includes the XC3000, XC3100, XC4000, XC5200, XC9500, XC4000E, XC4000EX and Spartan families. Support Products make up the remainder of our product offerings and include configuration solutions (serial PROMs), software, IP cores, customer training, design services and support. Xilinxs net revenues increased 13.8% in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002. The increase was primarily due to the growth in the storage, digital consumer and automotive applications. Xilinxs net revenues decreased 38.8% in fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001. The decrease was primarily due to an industry wide recession. 17 Table of Contents Advanced Products represented 54.9% and 37.5% of total net revenues in fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively. The percentage increase in revenues of Advanced Products was due to the strong market acceptance of these products across a broad base of sectors including new markets and applications. Mainstream and Base Products represented 38.9% of total net revenues in fiscal 2003 and 55.3% in fiscal 2002. Revenue decline in Mainstream and Base Products was mainly due to a combination of weak demand, and customer migration to newer product offerings and lower cost alternatives. Support Products represented 6.2% and 7.2% of total net revenues in fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively. The majority of the Support Products revenue came from configuration solutions (serial PROMs) and the remainder came from software, IP cores, design services and support. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of revenues in fiscal 2003, 2002 or 2001. Net revenues by semiconductor manufacturing process technology for the years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: 2003 % 2002 % 2001 % (In millions) Advanced Products $ 635.1 54.9 $ 380.5 37.5 $ 294.7 17.8 Mainstream Products 289.3 25.0 354.6 34.9 766.7 46.2 Base Products 160.5 13.9 207.3 20.4 474.4 28.6 Support Products 71.1 6.2 73.2 7.2 123.6 7.4 Total net revenues $ 1,156.0 100.0 $ 1,015.6 100.0 $ 1,659.4 100.0 In order to compete effectively, we pass manufacturing cost reductions on to our customers in the form of reduced prices to the extent that we can maintain acceptable margins. Price erosion is common in the semiconductor industry, as advances in both product architecture and manufacturing process technology permit continual reductions in unit cost. We have historically been able to offset much of the revenue decline of our mature technologies with increased revenues from newer technologies, although no assurance can be given that we can continue to do so in the future. Net revenues by geography for the years ended March 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: 2003 % 2002 % 2001 % (In millions) North America $ 559.0 48.3 $ 524.2 51.6 $ 1,028.2 62.0 Europe 254.3 22.0 235.9 23.2 334.0 20.1 Japan 176.4 15.3 130.6 12.9 163.6 9.9 Asia Pacific/Rest of World 166.3 14.4 124.9 12.3 133.6 8.0 Total net revenues $ 1,156.0 100.0 $ 1,015.6 100.0 $ 1,659.4 100.0 North America revenue represented 48%, 52% and 62% of total net revenues for the fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. International revenues represented approximately 52%, 48% and 38% of total net revenues for fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. North America, Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific/Rest of World all experienced revenue increases in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002 due to the strength in the storage and consumer sectors. Asia Pacific/Rest of World revenue increase also benefited from the transfer of manufacturing by North American OEMs to Asia. North America, Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific/Rest of World all experienced revenue decreases in fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001 due to the industry wide global recession that particularly affected the telecommunications sector. Gross Margin 2003 Change 2002 Change 2001 (In thousands) Gross margin $ 682,426 49.1% $ 457,695 (53.3)% $ 979,956 Percentage of net revenues 59.0% 45.1% 59.1% The gross margin improvement in fiscal 2003 compared to 2002 was largely due to improved yields, lower wafer and package costs and the shift of production to 300 millimeter wafers. In addition, higher gross margin benefited in fiscal 2003 from minimal inventory write downs that had a material effect in fiscal 2002. The significant decrease of gross margin percentages in fiscal 2002 compared to 2001 resulted from a write down of inventory due to the steep decline of demand that resulted in excess inventory. The inventory write down related primarily to a sharp decrease in backlog and forecasted demand due to a worldwide economic slowdown. 18 Table of Contents Gross margin may be adversely affected in the future due to product mix shifts, pricing pressure, manufacturing yield issues and inventory write downs. We expect to mitigate this risk by continuing to migrate the technology from 200 millimeter to 300 millimeter wafers, focus on inventory efficiency, improving yields and shifting to more advanced 130 and 90 nanometer process technologies. Research and Development 2003 Change 2002 Change 2001 (In thousands) Research and development $ 222,139 8.5% $ 204,752 (4.0)% $ 213,195 Percentage of net revenues 19.2% 20.2% 12.8% Research and development (R&D) expenses for fiscal 2003 were $222.1 million, or 19.2% of net revenues, compared to $204.8 million, or 20.2% of net revenues in fiscal 2002 and $213.2 million, or 12.8% of net revenues in fiscal 2001. R&D expenses for fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001 include non cash deferred stock compensation of $6.4 million, $8.5 million and $4.5 million, respectively, associated with the November 2000 acquisition of RocketChips (see Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements in 
 
