ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Cautionary Statement The statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis that are forward looking, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, involve numerous risks and uncertainties and are based on current expectations. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements for many reasons, including those risks discussed under "Factors Affecting Future Results" and elsewhere in this document. Forward looking statements can often be identified by the use of forward looking words, such as "may," "will," "could," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar words. We disclaim any responsibility to update any forward looking statement provided in this document. Nature of Operations We design, develop and market programmable logic solutions, including advanced ICs, software design tools, predefined system functions delivered as IP cores, design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. Our PLDs include FPGAs and CPLDs. These devices are standard products that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. Our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time to market for electronic equipment manufacturers in the communications, storage, server, consumer, industrial and other markets. We sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors, through direct sales to OEMs by a network of independent sales representative firms and through a direct sales management organization. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has defined critical accounting policies as those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, our critical policies include: valuation of marketable and non marketable securities, which impacts losses on equity securities when we record impairments; revenue recognition, which impacts the recording of revenues; and valuation of inventories, which impacts cost of revenues and gross margin. Our critical accounting policies also include: the assessment of impairment of long lived assets including acquisition related intangibles, which impacts their valuation; the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill, which impacts goodwill impairment; and accounting for income taxes, which impacts the provision or benefit recognized for income taxes, as well as the valuation of deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. Valuation of Marketable and Non marketable Securities The Companys short term and long term investments include marketable and non marketable equity and debt securities. At April 2, 2005, the Company had an equity investment in UMC, a public Taiwanese semiconductor wafer manufacturing company, of $246.1 million and strategic investments in non marketable equity securities of $18.2 million. In determining if and when a decline in market value below adjusted cost of marketable equity and debt securities is other than temporary, the Company evaluates quarterly the market conditions, trends of earnings, financial condition and other key measures for our investments. In determining whether a decline in value of non marketable equity investments in private companies is other than temporary, the assessment is made by considering available evidence 17 including the general market conditions in the investees industry, the investees product development status, the investees ability to meet business milestones and the financial condition and near term prospects of the individual investee, including the rate at which the investee is using its cash and the investees need for possible additional funding at a lower valuation. When a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, the Company recognizes an impairment loss in the current periods operating results to the extent of the decline. Based on our evaluation, we recorded impairment losses on investments on our consolidated statements of income, related to our investments in private companies of $3.1 million and $10.4 million in fiscal 2005 and 2003, respectively. Revenue Recognition Sales to distributors are made under agreements providing distributor price adjustments and rights of return under certain circumstances. Revenue and costs relating to distributor sales are deferred until products are sold by the distributors to end customers. As of April 2, 2005, approximately 90% of our products are sold to distributors for subsequent resale to OEMs or their subcontract manufacturers. Revenue recognition depends on notification from the distributor that product has been sold to the end customer. Reported information includes product resale price, quantity and end customer shipment information, as well as inventory on hand. Reported distributor inventory on hand is reconciled to deferred revenue balances monthly. We maintain system controls to validate the data and verify that the reported information is accurate. The effects of distributor price adjustments are recorded as a reduction to deferred income on shipments to distributors reflecting the amount of gross margin expected to be realized when distributors sell through product purchased from us. Accounts receivable from distributors are recognized and inventory is relieved when title to inventories transfers, typically upon shipment from Xilinx at which point we have a legally enforceable right to collection under normal payment terms. Revenue from sales to our direct customers is recognized upon shipment provided that persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, the price is fixed, title has transferred, collection of resulting receivables is reasonably assured, and there are no customer acceptance requirements and no remaining significant obligations. For each of the periods presented, there were no formal acceptance provisions with our direct customers. Revenue from software term licenses is deferred and recognized as revenue over the term of the licenses of one year. Revenue from support services is recognized when the service is performed. Revenue from support products, which includes software and services sales, was less than 8% of net revenues for all of the periods presented. Allowances for end customer sales returns are recorded based on historical experience and for known pending customer returns or allowances. Valuation of Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of actual cost (determined using the first in, first out method) or market (estimated net realizable value). The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate excess or obsolete inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. We review and set standard costs quarterly at current manufacturing costs in order to approximate actual costs. Our manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of forecasted spending over projected volumes, adjusted for excess capacity. Given the cyclicality of the market, the obsolescence of technology and product lifecycles, we write down inventory based on forecasted demand and technological obsolescence. These factors are impacted by market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product introductions and changes in strategic direction and require estimates that may include uncertain elements. The estimates of future demand that we use in the valuation of inventory are the basis for our published revenue forecasts, which are also consistent with our short term manufacturing plans. If our demand forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, we could be required to write down additional inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. 18 Impairment of Long Lived Assets Including Acquisition Related Intangibles Long lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets to be held and used are reviewed for impairment if indicators of potential impairment exist. Impairment indicators are reviewed on a quarterly basis. When indicators of impairment exist and assets are held for use, we estimate future undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets. In the event such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the recorded value of the assets, the assets are written down to their estimated fair values based on the expected discounted future cash flows attributable to the assets or appraisals. When assets are removed from operations and held for sale, we estimate impairment losses as the excess of the carrying value of the assets over their fair value. Factors affecting impairment of assets held for use include the overall profitability of the Companys business and our ability to generate positive cash flows. Changes in any of these factors could necessitate impairment recognition in future periods for assets held for use or assets held for sale. Goodwill As required by SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS 142), goodwill is not amortized but is subject to impairment tests on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, and written down when impaired. We perform an annual impairment review in the fourth quarter of each year and compare the fair value of the reporting unit in which the goodwill resides to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, the goodwill of the reporting unit is potentially impaired. For purposes of impairment testing under SFAS 142, Xilinx operates as a single reporting unit. We use the quoted market price method to determine the fair value of the reporting unit. Based on the impairment review performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, there was no impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2005. Unless there are indicators of impairment, our next impairment review for RocketChips, Triscend Corporation (Triscend) and HDI goodwill will be performed and completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. To date, no impairment indicators have been identified. Accounting for Income Taxes Xilinx is a multinational corporation operating in multiple tax jurisdictions. We must apply the appropriate tax rates based on the pretax income for each of these jurisdictions. We undergo routine audits by taxing authorities regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Tax audits often require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments if changes to the allocation are required between jurisdictions with different tax rates. In determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. Additionally, we must estimate the amount and likelihood of potential losses arising from audits or deficiency notices issued by taxing authorities. The taxing authorities positions and our assessment can change over time resulting in material impacts on the provision for income taxes in periods when these changes occur. We must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a reserve, in the form of a valuation allowance, for the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. As of April 2, 2005 and April 3, 2004, we had a valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets relating to certain California tax credit carryforwards. 19 Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our operations as a percentage of net revenues for the fiscal years indicated: 2005 2004 2003 Net Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 36.6 37.9 41.0 Gross Margin 63.4 62.1 59.0 Research and development 19.6 17.7 19.2 Selling, general and administrative 19.3 19.1 20.4 Amortization of acquisition related intangibles 0.4 0.7 1.2 Impairment loss on excess facilities and equipment 0.0 0.2 4.7 Litigation settlement and contingency 0.0 0.5 0.0 Write off of acquired in process research and development 0.5 0.5 0.0 Operating Income 23.6 23.4 13.5 Impairment loss on investments (0.2 ) 0.0 (0.9 ) Interest income and other, net 2.0 1.7 2.1 Income Before Income Taxes 25.4 25.1 14.7 Provision for income taxes 5.5 3.4 3.8 Net Income 19.9 % 21.7 % 10.9 % Net Revenues 2005 Change 2004 Change 2003 (In thousands) Net revenues $ 1,573,233 13 % $ 1,397,846 21 % $ 1,155,977 Our net revenues increased 13% in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004. The increase was due to strength of our New Products in Communications, Consumer and Automotive and Industrial and Other end markets. Our net revenues increased 21% in fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003 due to strong customer demand for our New Products and continued growth in our Consumer and Automotive and Industrial and Other end markets. The increases in net revenues in both fiscal 2005 and 2004 were due to increased unit sales, partially offset by normal declines in average unit selling prices. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of net revenues for any of the periods presented. Net Revenues by Product We classify our product offerings into four categories: New, Mainstream, Base and Support Products. These product categories, excluding Support Products, are adjusted on a periodic basis to better reflect advances in technology. The most recent adjustment was on July 4, 2004, which was the beginning of our second quarter of fiscal 2005. Amounts for the prior periods presented have been reclassified to conform to the new categorization. New Products include our most recent product offerings and include the Spartan 3, Spartan 3E, Spartan IIE, Virtex 4, Virtex II Pro, EasyPath and CoolRunner II product lines. Mainstream Products include the CoolRunner, Spartan II, SpartanXL, Virtex II, Virtex E and Virtex product lines. Base Products consist of our mature product families and include the XC3000, XC3100, XC4000, XC5200, XC9500, XC9500XL, XC9500XV, XC4000E, XC4000EX, XC4000XL, XC4000XLA, XC4000XV and Spartan families. Support Products make up the remainder of our product offerings and include configuration solutions (serial PROMs programmable read only memory), software, intellectual property (IP) cores, customer training, design services and support. 20 Net revenues by product categories for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: 2005 % of Total % Change 2004 % of Total % Change 2003 % of Total (In millions) New Products $ 277.1 18 207 $ 90.2 6 594 $ 13.0 1 Mainstream Products 912.6 58 0 911.0 65 17 779.4 68 Base Products 280.6 18 (7 ) 300.3 22 3 292.5 25 Support Products 102.9 6 7 96.3 7 35 71.1 6 Total Net Revenues $ 1,573.2 100 13 $ 1,397.8 100 21 $ 1,156.0 100 The increase in net revenues of New Products for both fiscal 2005 and 2004 compared to their respective prior fiscal years was due to the strong market acceptance of these products, primarily Virtex II Pro, Spartan 3 and Spartan IIE across a broad base of applications, including wireless communications, networking and consumer. The relatively flat performance of Mainstream Products in fiscal 2005 was due to strength in Consumer and Automotive end market offset by weakness in Storage and Servers end market. The weakness in Storage and Servers end market was related to the product lifecycle transitions within our large storage accounts. The increase in Mainstream Products in fiscal 2004 was driven by growth from Spartan II and Virtex II as demand from storage, networking, and communications led to significant growth in these two products. The decline in Base Products in fiscal 2005 was due to lower demand for older generation products as they progress into the mature stage of their lifecycles. The small revenue growth in fiscal 2004 was due to improved market conditions. Lastly, Support Products grew in fiscal 2005 and 2004 compared to the prior year periods mainly due to improvement in design services, software and configuration solutions (serial PROMs). PROM memories are used primarily to configure FPGAs. As a result, PROM revenues generally follow the FPGA revenue trends. Net Revenues by Geography Geographic revenue information is based on the geographic location where we shipped our products to distributors or OEMs. This may differ from the geographic location of the end customers. Net revenues by geography for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: 2005 % of Total % Change 2004 % of Total % Change 2003 % of Total (In millions) North America $ 655.1 42 11 $ 592.5 42 6 $ 559.0 48 Europe 326.1 21 21 270.3 19 6 254.3 22 Japan 224.1 14 10 203.6 15 15 176.4 15 APAC/ROW 367.9 23 11 331.4 24 99 166.3 15 Total Net Revenues $ 1,573.2 100 13 $ 1,397.8 100 21 $ 1,156.0 100 All geographies in fiscal 2005 showed double digit percentage increases in net revenues. Europe displayed the strongest growth of 21% as a result of increased demand from wireless 3G base stations and automotive telematics. In fiscal 2004, Europe grew partly due to strength in industrial, automotive and wireless communication applications. The increased net revenues for both North America and Asia Pacific/Rest of World (APAC/ROW) in fiscal 2005 were due to continued strength in the networking, wireless communication and consumer applications. The improvement of North America revenue in fiscal 2004 was due to the growth in the Communications and Storage and Servers end markets, which benefited from an improved economy. In fiscal 2004, APAC/ROW grew due to consumer based applications and the transfer of manufacturing by North American and European OEMs to Asia Pacific. For Japan, the increased net revenues in both fiscal 2005 and 2004 were largely due to digital consumer applications. 21 Net Revenues by End Markets Our end market revenue data is derived from our understanding of our end customers primary markets. In order to better reflect our diversification efforts and to provide more detailed end market information, we split the category formerly called "Consumer, Industrial and Other" into two components: "Consumer and Automotive" and "Industrial and Other" beginning with the quarter ended January 1, 2005. As a result, we classify our net revenues by end markets in four categories: Communications, Storage and Servers, Consumer and Automotive and Industrial and Other. Since historical comparisons of the two new categories are not available, we combined them in the table below to show their aggregated changes over the three fiscal years. The percentage change calculation in the table below represents the year to year dollar change in each end market. We will begin to show historical comparisons of the two new categories when available. Net revenues by end markets for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: 2005 % Change 2004 % Change 2003 (% of total net revenues) Communications 50 % 12 50 % 12 55 % Storage and Servers 14 (15 ) 19 5 21 Consumer, Automotive, Industrial and Other 36 30 31 56 24 Total Net Revenues 100 % 13 100 % 21 100 % The growth in Communications end market was a reflection of increased demand in wired, wireless and networking applications during fiscal 2005. Similarly, the growth in fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003 was due to recovery in demand during the latter part of fiscal 2004 driven by wireless and networking applications. As expected, the Storage and Servers end market declined in fiscal 2005 as a result of broad based weakness as well as product lifecycle transitions within our large storage accounts. Storage and Servers revenues increased in fiscal 2004 largely due to several customer designs entering production. Storage and Servers business is expected to see further decline in fiscal 2006 albeit at a slower rate than in fiscal 2005. The combined category of Consumer, Automotive, Industrial and Other grew 30% in fiscal 2005 and 56% in fiscal 2004. The strong growth in this category was due to increased acceptance of programmable logic solutions in digital consumer, defense and automotive applications. Gross Margin 2005 Change 2004 Change 2003 (In thousands) Gross margin $ 996,949 15 % $ 867,878 27 % $ 682,426 Percentage of net revenues 63.4 % 62.1 % 59.0 % The gross margin improvement of 1.3 percentage points in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 was due to improved yields and manufacturing costs in our New Products and high volume Mainstream Products. Similarly, the gross margin improvement of 3.1 percentage points in fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003 was largely due to improved costs from the migration to 300 millimeter wafer production. Gross margin may be adversely affected in the future due to product mix shifts, competitive pricing pressure, manufacturing yield issues and wafer pricing. We expect to mitigate these risks by continuing to improve yields on process technologies of 130 nanometers and below. Sales of inventory previously written off were not material during fiscal 2005, 2004 or 2003. In order to compete effectively, we pass manufacturing cost reductions on to our customers in the form of reduced prices to the extent that we can maintain acceptable margins. Price erosion is common in the semiconductor industry, as advances in both product architecture and manufacturing process technology permit continual reductions in unit cost. We have historically been able to offset much of the revenue decline in our mature products with increased revenues from newer products. 22 Research and Development 2005 Change 2004 Change 2003 (In thousands) Research and development $ 307,448 24 % $ 247,609 12 % $ 222,139 Percentage of net revenues 20 % 18 % 19 % The increase in research and development (R&D) expenses from fiscal 2004 to fiscal 2005 was primarily related to higher mask and wafer expenses for development of new products and additional resources for next generation products and IP development related to new market opportunities such as DSP and embedded processing. The increase in R&D expenses from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004 was primarily related to continued expansion of R&D investment in process technology, product features and next generation products. We plan to continue to invest in R&D efforts in a wide variety of areas such as new products, 90 and 65 nanometer and more advanced process technologies, IP cores, DSP, embedded processing and the development of new design and layout software. Selling, General and Administrative 2005 Change 2004 Change 2003 (In thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 303,595 14 % $ 266,664 13 % $ 235,347 Percentage of net revenues 19 % 19 % 20 % The increase in selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses in fiscal 2005 compared to fiscal 2004 was attributable to start up costs for our new regional headquarters in Singapore, tax litigation costs, Sarbanes Oxley Section 404 compliance costs and commissions associated with higher revenues. The increase in SG&A expenses from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004 was primarily related to increased commissions associated with higher revenues, expenses related to increased sales resources in key markets and marketing activities to support the increased complexity of our products and breadth of new markets. Amortization of Acquisition Related Intangibles Amortization expense for all acquisition related intangible assets for fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $6.7 million, $9.8 million and $15.3 million, respectively, primarily related to intangible assets arising from the RocketChips, Triscend and HDI acquisitions. Amortization expense for these intangible assets has declined from the comparable prior year periods due to the complete amortization of certain intangible assets associated with the RocketChips acquisition. We expect amortization of acquisition related intangibles to be approximately $6.5 million for fiscal 2006 compared with $6.7 million for fiscal 2005. Impairment Losses The impairment losses on investments of $3.1 million and $10.4 million recognized during fiscal 2005 and 2003, respectively, were related to non marketable equity securities in private companies. The impairment losses resulted from certain investees diluting Xilinxs investment through the receipt of an additional round of investment at a lower valuation or from the liquidation of certain investees. The $54.7 million impairment loss on excess facilities and equipment recognized during the third quarter of fiscal 2003 related primarily to excess facilities owned in San Jose, California. We lost a potential long term arrangement to lease the facilities during the third quarter of fiscal 2003, leaving us with no near term leasing alternatives or prospects for sale. The amount of the impairment was based on managements evaluation of future cash flows and an independent appraisal obtained during the third quarter of fiscal 2003. During the third quarter of fiscal 2004, we received a purchase offer from a prospective buyer for an amount less than the facilities net book value of $35.4 million. An additional impairment charge of 23 $3.4 million was recognized in the third quarter of fiscal 2004. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we sold the facilities for $33.8 million ($32.0 million, net of selling costs), resulting in no additional loss or gain. Litigation Settlement and Contingency During the first quarter of fiscal 2004, we recorded a $6.4 million loss related to a litigation settlement with Aldec, Inc. and a contingent liability with Reptronic. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Write Off of Acquired In Process Research and Development In connection with the acquisition of HDI in the first quarter of fiscal 2005, approximately $7.2 million of in process research and development costs were written off. The projects identified as in process would have required additional effort in order to establish technological feasibility. These projects, as well as the Triscend development project referred to below, had identifiable technological risk factors indicating that successful completion, although expected, was not assured. If an identified project is not successfully completed, there is no alternative future use for the project, therefore, the expected future income will not be realized. The acquired in process research and development represented the fair value of technologies in the development stage that had not yet reached technological feasibility and did not have alternative future uses. The acquired in process research and development components consist of hierarchical floorplanning and analysis software for high performance FPGA design. We plan to sell these products to Xilinx customers, and over time integrate them into our software product suite. These products were approximately 67% complete at the time of acquisition. At the time of the HDI acquisition, we expected to complete the development project by the end of fiscal 2005 with an estimated cost to complete of $1.1 million. The development project was completed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 at a cost that approximated the original estimate. In connection with the Triscend acquisition in March 2004, approximately $7.0 million of in process research and development costs were written off. The projects identified as in process would have required additional effort in order to establish technological feasibility. The acquired in process research and development components consist of a graphical user interface and design implementation software. We have no further plans to fully integrate Triscends graphical user interface and design implementation software into our products, however some elements and concepts of this technology are likely to be integrated into various software tools we supply to our customers. Triscends tools were completed as of December 2004. Integration of some elements and concepts will likely occur between fiscal 2005 and 2006. To determine the value of Triscends and HDIs in process research and development, the expected future cash flow attributable to the in process technology was discounted, taking into account the percentage of completion, utilization of pre existing "core" technology, risks related to the characteristics and applications of the technology, existing and future markets, and technological risk associated with completing the development of the technology. We expensed these non recurring charges in the period of acquisition. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Interest Income and Other, Net 2005 Change 2004 Change 2003 (In thousands) Interest income and other, net $ 31,603 35 % $ 23,409 (5 )% $ 24,628 Percentage of net revenues 2 % 2 % 2 % The increase in interest income and other, net from fiscal 2004 to fiscal 2005 was primarily due to higher average cash and investment balances and higher yields achieved by switching a larger portion of the investments to longer duration portfolios as well as into taxable instruments. The increase in interest income and other, net was partially offset by a decrease in portfolio capital gains as compared to fiscal 2004. The decrease from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004 was primarily due to miscellaneous items of other income, net. Additionally, lower interest rates in fiscal 2004 largely offset the benefit of higher average cash and investment balances compared to the prior year. 24  Provision for Income Taxes 2005 Change 2004 Change 2003 (In thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 87,821 85 % $ 47,555 8 % $ 44,167 Effective tax rate 22 % 14 % 26 % The effective tax rates in all years reflect the impact of foreign income (loss) at different statutory tax rates and tax credits earned in the United States. During fiscal 2005, the Company repatriated $450.0 million of earnings from its foreign operations, on which taxes were previously provided. This resulted in the utilization of significant amounts of net operating loss carryforwards. The fiscal 2004 effective tax rate reflected a one time benefit of $34.4 million for reversing previously provided taxes for an IRS audit that disputed the calculation of royalty payments that the Companys Ireland subsidiary paid to license the Companys technology. The IRS agreed to a stipulation in April 2004 concurring with our original royalty calculations. Without this one time benefit, the effective tax rate for fiscal 2004 would have been 23%. The fiscal 2005 effective tax rate reflects a one time benefit of $4.7 million for reversing previously provided taxes relating to an IRS audit. We are currently considering the impact of the repatriation provision contained in the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. We expect to complete this evaluation before the end of fiscal 2006. The range of possible amounts of unremitted earnings that is being considered for repatriation under this provision is between zero and $500.0 million. The related potential range of income tax is between zero and $26.3 million. We filed petitions with the U.S. Tax Court in response to assertions by the IRS that we owed additional tax for fiscal 1996 through 2000. See Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" and Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources We have historically used a combination of cash flows from operations and equity and debt financing to support ongoing business activities, acquire or invest in critical or complementary technologies, purchase facilities and capital equipment, repurchase our Common Stock under our stock repurchase program, pay dividends and finance working capital. Additionally, our investments in debt securities and in UMC are available for future sale. Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short term and Long term Investments The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short term and long term investments at April 2, 2005 and April 3, 2004 totaled $1.6 billion for both periods. As of April 2, 2005, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $861.6 million and working capital of $1.2 billion. Cash provided by operations of $275.5 million for fiscal 2005 was $157.0 million lower than the $432.5 million generated during fiscal 2004. Decreases in cash generated by operations resulted primarily from increases in inventory, an advance wafer purchase payment of $50.0 million to Toshiba and a decrease in deferred income on shipments to distributors, which were partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable. Net cash used in investing activities of $45.1 million during fiscal 2005 included $61.4 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment and $18.4 million for the acquisition of HDI, partially offset by $34.7 million of net proceeds from the sale of available for sale securities. Net cash used in financing activities was $118.3 million in fiscal 2005 consisting of $133.8 million for the acquisition of treasury stock and $69.6 million for dividend payments to stockholders. These items were partially offset by $85.1 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. 25 Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful accounts, customer returns and distributor pricing adjustments decreased 14% from $249.0 million at the end of fiscal 2004 to $213.5 million at the end of fiscal 2005. The decrease was primarily attributable to better linearity of shipments to distributors during the three months ended April 2, 2005 as compared to the three months ended April 3, 2004 and a decreased level of shipments. Days sales outstanding decreased from 56 days at April 3, 2004 to 50 days at April 2, 2005. Inventories Inventories increased from $102.5 million at April 3, 2004 to $185.7 million at April 2, 2005. The increase was due to an inventory build from unusually low inventory levels in fiscal 2004 for an anticipated growth in sales for the second half of calendar 2004 that did not materialize and the ramping of new products. We attempt to maintain sufficient levels of inventory in various product, package and speed configurations in order to keep lead times short and to meet forecasted customer demand. Conversely, we also attempt to minimize the handling costs associated with maintaining higher inventory levels and to fully realize the opportunities for cost reductions associated with architecture and manufacturing process advancements. We continually strive to balance these two objectives to provide excellent customer response at a competitive cost. Property, Plant and Equipment During fiscal 2005, we invested $61.4 million in property, plant and equipment compared to $41.0 million in fiscal 2004. Primary investments in fiscal 2005 were for computer equipment, IT equipment, test equipment and building improvements. Current Liabilities Current liabilities decreased from $381.1 million at the end of fiscal 2004 to $298.4 million at the end of fiscal 2005. The decrease was primarily attributable to the decrease in deferred income on shipments to distributors, accounts payable and income taxes payable. The decrease in deferred income on shipments to distributors was due to lower inventory in the distributor channel. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity increased $190.4 million during fiscal 2005, principally as a result of $312.7 million in net income for the year ended April 2, 2005, the issuance of common shares and treasury stock under employee stock plans of $84.5 million, $504 thousand in amortization of deferred compensation related to the RocketChips acquisition, the related tax benefits associated with stock option exercises and the employee stock purchase plan of $51.9 million and cumulative translation adjustment of $897 thousand. The increases were partially offset by the acquisition of treasury stock of $134.6 million, as adjusted for accrued and unsettled transactions, the payment of our first full year of dividends to stockholders of $69.7 million and $55.8 million in unrealized losses on available for sale securities, net of deferred taxes, primarily from our investment in UMC stock. Fiscal 2004 Compared to Fiscal 2003 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short term and Long term Investments The combination of cash and cash equivalents and short term and long term investments at April 3, 2004 totaled $1.6 billion compared with $1.1 billion at March 29, 2003. As of April 3, 2004, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $844.2 million and working capital of $965.7 million. Cash provided by operations of $432.5 million for fiscal 2004 was $87.5 million higher than the $345.0 million generated during fiscal 2003. Increases in cash generated by operations resulted primarily from net income adjusted for non cash related items, and increases in accounts payable and deferred income on shipments to distributors, which were partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable. 26 Net cash used in investing activities of $354.8 million during fiscal 2004 included net purchases of available for sale securities of $325.8 million, $41.0 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment and $20.0 million for the acquisition of Triscend, partially offset by $32.0 million of proceeds from the sale of buildings and land. Net cash provided by financing activities was $45.6 million in fiscal 2004 and consisted of $108.0 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans, partially offset by $62.3 million for the acquisition of treasury stock. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful accounts, customer returns and distributor pricing adjustments increased 26% from $197.7 million at the end of fiscal 2003 to $249.0 million at the end of fiscal 2004. The increase was primarily attributable to the increased level of revenue and an increase in shipments late in the year. Inventories Inventories decreased from $111.5 million at March 29, 2003 to $102.5 million at April 3, 2004 due to increased demand for new products, and our continued focus on supply chain management to streamline the flow of our products. Property, Plant and Equipment During fiscal 2004, we invested $41.0 million in property, plant and equipment compared to $46.0 million in fiscal 2003. Primary investments in fiscal 2004 were for test equipment, computer equipment, IT equipment and software. Software investments included additional enterprise resource planning software functionality and automation of critical business processes. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we sold excess facilities consisting of two buildings and land near downtown San Jose, California for $33.8 million ($32.0 million, net of selling costs). After recognizing previous impairment losses on these excess facilities of $53.8 million in fiscal 2003 and $3.4 million in fiscal 2004, there was no gain or loss on the sale of the buildings and land. Current Liabilities Current liabilities increased from $313.8 million at the end of fiscal 2003 to $381.1 million at the end of fiscal 2004. The increase was primarily attributable to the increase in accounts payable and deferred income on shipments to distributors. The increase in accounts payable was a result of increased purchases and the increase in deferred income on shipments to distributors was due to increased inventory levels at distributors, resulting from an increase in shipments to distributors later in the year. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity increased $532.3 million during fiscal 2004, principally as a result of $303.0 million in net income for the year ended April 3, 2004, the issuance of common shares and treasury stock under employee stock plans of $109.2 million, $3.8 million in amortization of deferred compensation related to the RocketChips acquisition, the related tax benefits associated with stock option exercises and the employee stock purchase plan of $109.2 million, $68.4 million in unrealized gains on available for sale securities, net of deferred taxes, primarily from our investment in UMC stock and by cumulative translation adjustment of $1.5 million. The increases were partially offset by the acquisition of treasury stock of $62.8 million, as adjusted for accrued and unsettled transactions. 27 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at April 2, 2005 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. This table excludes amounts already recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as current liabilities at April 2, 2005. Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years (In millions) Operating lease obligations(1) $ 20.5 $ 6.8 $ 7.1 $ 3.5 $ 3.1 Inventory and other purchase obligations(2) 97.2 97.2 Advance wafer payment to Toshiba(3) 50.0 50.0 Electronic design automation software licenses(4) 15.1 6.0 9.1 Intellectual property license rights obligations(5) 30.0 10.0 20.0 Total $ 212.8 $ 170.0 $ 36.2 $ 3.5 $ 3.1 (1)We lease some of our facilities and office buildings under operating leases that expire at various dates through February 2026. Rent expense, net of rental income, under all operating leases was approximately $5.0 million for fiscal 2005. (2)Due to the nature of our business, we depend entirely upon subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and some test services. The lengthy subcontractor lead times require us to order the materials and services in advance, and we are obligated to pay for the materials and services when completed. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services in the next three to six months, as the products meet delivery and quality specifications. (3)In October 2004, the Company entered into an advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba under which the Company has a contingent obligation to pay Toshiba up to a total of $100.0 million in installments for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement. The first $50.0 million advance was paid in December 2004. Future installments are contingent upon Toshiba meeting specified performance milestones. The entire $100.0 million (or any unused portion thereof) will be reduced by future wafer purchases from Toshiba and is fully refundable on or about December 2007 if Toshiba is not able to maintain ongoing production and quality criteria or if future wafer purchases do not exceed the total amount advanced. (4)As of April 2, 2005, the Company has approximately $15.1 million of non cancelable obligations to providers of electronic design automation software expiring at various dates through December 2007. (5)In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company agreed to pay $10.0 million for license rights to certain intellectual property, and committed up to an additional $20.0 million to acquire, in the future, rights in additional intellectual property. License payments will be amortized over the useful life of the intellectual property acquired. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of April 2, 2005, we did not have any significant off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S K. Summary of Liquidity and Capital Resources On April 22, 2004, the Board of Directors declared our first quarterly common stock dividend, of $0.05 per share, which was paid on June 2, 2004 to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 12, 2004. On July 22 and October 21, 2004 and January 20, 2005, the Board of Directors declared our second, third and fourth quarterly common stock dividends, of $0.05 per share, which were paid on September 1 and December 1, 2004 and March 2, 2005 to stockholders of record at the close of business on August 18 and November 17, 2004 and February 16, 2005, respectively. On April 21, 2005, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.07 per common share for the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The dividend is 28 payable on June 1, 2005 to stockholders of record on May 11, 2005. Our dividend policy could be impacted by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements relating to research and development, investments and acquisitions, legal risks, stock repurchase programs and other strategic investments. We anticipate that existing sources of liquidity and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future. However, the factors affecting future results discussed below could affect our cash positions adversely. We will continue to evaluate opportunities for investments to obtain additional wafer capacity, procurement of additional capital equipment and facilities, development of new products, and potential acquisitions of technologies or businesses that could complement our business. Factors Affecting Future Results The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Companys management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. If any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and cyclical market patterns which contribute to create factors that may affect our future operating results including: Market Demand increased dependence on turns orders (orders received and shipped within the same fiscal quarter); limited visibility of demand for products, especially new products; reduced capital spending by our customers; weaker demand for our products or those of our customers due to a prolonged period of economic uncertainty; excess inventory at Xilinx and within the supply chain including overbuilding of OEM products; additional excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding write downs due to a significant deterioration in demand; inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of a given product in a timely manner; inability to obtain manufacturing capacity in sufficient volume; inability to predict the success of our customers products in their markets; an unexpected increase in demand resulting in longer lead times that causes delays in customer production schedules; dependence on the health of the end markets and customers we serve; Competitive Environment price and product competition, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation; major customers converting to ASIC or ASSP designs from Xilinx PLDs; erosion of average selling prices; timely introduction of new products; Technology lower gross margins due to product mix shifts and reduced manufacturing efficiency; failure to retain or attract specialized technical/management personnel; timely introduction of advanced manufacturing technologies; ability to safeguard the Companys products from competitors by means of patents and other intellectual property protections; impact of new technologies which result in rapid escalation of demand for some products in the face of equally steep declines in demand for others; 29 ability to successfully manage multiple foundry relationships; impact of longer cycle times associated with products manufactured on 300 millimeter wafers and 90 nanometer process technology; Other changes in accounting rules; dependence on distributors to generate sales and process customer orders; disruption in sales generation, order processing and logistics if a distributor materially defaults on a contract; consolidation within the distribution channel such as the proposed merger of Avnet and Memec (See Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data"); impact of changes to current export/import laws and regulations; volatility of the securities market, particularly as it relates to the high technology sector and our investment in UMC; unexpected product quality issues; global events impacting the world economy or specific regions of the world; catastrophes that impact the ability of our supply chain to operate or deliver product; and higher costs associated with multiple foundry relationships. We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Due to these and other factors, our past results, including those described in this report, are much less reliable predictors of the future than with companies in many older, more stable and mature industries. Based on the factors noted herein, we may experience substantial fluctuations in future operating results. Our results of operations are impacted by global economic and political conditions, dependence on new products, dependence on independent manufacturers and subcontractors, competition, intellectual property, potential new accounting pronouncements, Sarbanes Oxley Section 404 compliance and litigation, each of which is discussed in greater detail below. Potential Effect of Global Economic and Political Conditions Sales and operations outside of the United States subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business and by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. For example, we have sales and operations in Asia Pacific and Japan. Past economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues, and such conditions may occur in the future. Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. While the recent movement of the Euro and Yen against the U.S. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our European and Japanese customers. Currency instability may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers ability to repay existing obligations. Increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign currency denominated costs. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. Our financial condition and results of operations are increasingly dependent on the global economy. Any instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned for example, by political instability or terrorist activity could impact economic activity and could lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. Additional risks to us include U.S. military actions, U.S. government spending on military and defense activities, economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. government, government regulation of exports, imposition of tariffs and other potential trade barriers, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries and generally longer receivable collection periods. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts in Taiwan where our main wafer provider, UMC, as well as a significant number of suppliers to the semiconductor industry, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide manufacturing services worldwide, are located. 30 Dependence on New Products Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design wins; ability to engage in key relationships with companies that provide synergistic products and services; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies to circuit geometries on 90 nanometers and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined IP cores of logic; industry acceptance; and, successful deployment of electronic systems by our customers. Our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. Revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future. As a result, we will be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. We rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Dependence on Independent Manufacturers and Subcontractors During fiscal 2005, nearly all of our wafers were manufactured in Taiwan by UMC and in Japan by Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko). Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between Xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short term agreements. We are dependent on these foundries, especially UMC, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. We rely on UMC to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, which include transitioning to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, producing wafers at acceptable yields, and delivering them in a timely manner. We cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies. In addition, greater demand for wafers produced by the foundries without an offsetting increase in foundry capacity, raises the likelihood of potential wafer price increases. In October 2004, we announced a strategic foundry relationship with Toshiba for the production of advanced silicon wafers in Japan beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. UMCs foundries in Taiwan and Seikos and Toshibas foundries in Japan as well as many of our operations in California are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past. Should there be a major earthquake in our suppliers or our operating locations in the future, our operations, including our manufacturing activities, may be disrupted. This type of disruption could result in our inability to ship products in a timely manner, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, 31 natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, test and shipment services. Any prolonged inability to obtain wafers or assembly, test or shipment services with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Competition Our future success depends on our ability to be competitive in the semiconductor industry. See "Competition" in Item 1. "Business." Intellectual Property We rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future, assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation and we may not prevail in such litigation or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Any infringement claim or other litigation against us or by us could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Potential Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements There may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which may have an impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R), "Share Based Payment: An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 123 and 95." SFAS 123(R) eliminates the ability to account for share based compensation transactions using Accounting Principles Boards Opinion No. 25 (APB 25), "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and will instead require companies to recognize compensation expense, using a fair value based method, for costs related to share based payments including stock options and employee stock purchase plans. The Company will be required to implement the standard no later than the quarter that begins April 2, 2006. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) will materially impact our results of operations. Sarbanes Oxley Section 404 Compliance We are now subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if identified, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements. We may not identify a material weakness in future periods, and our controls necessary for continued compliance may not continue to operate effectively at all times. We also may not be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. Litigation We are currently engaged in several legal matters. See Item 3. "Legal Proceedings." 32   ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.4 billion at April 2, 2005. Our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. The portfolio includes tax advantaged municipal bonds, tax advantaged auction rate securities, commercial paper, corporate bonds, government agency bonds and U.S. Treasury securities. In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. A hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in market interest rates compared to interest rates at April 2, 2005 would not materially affect the fair value of our available for sale securities, and the impact on our investment portfolio would have been less than $10.0 million. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated and effective as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained, are deferred and included in the basis of the transaction in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. Gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the consolidated statements of income as they are incurred. We did not execute material hedge transactions during fiscal 2003, 2004 or 2005. We will enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our overseas operating expenses when deemed appropriate. Our investments in several subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As these foreign currency denominated investments are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the U.S. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments. These fluctuations are recorded within stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). In addition, as our subsidiaries maintain investments denominated in other than local currencies, exchange rate fluctuations will occur. A hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at April 2, 2005 would have been less than $10.0 million. Equity Security Price Risk Our investment in marketable equity securities at April 2, 2005 consists almost entirely of our investment in UMC, which consists of shares of common stock, the value of which is determined by the Taiwan Stock Exchange. This value is converted from new Taiwan dollars into U.S. dollars and included in our determination of the change in the fair value of our investment in UMC which is accounted for under the provisions of SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Debt and Equity Securities." The market value of our investment in UMC was approximately $246.1 million at April 2, 2005 as compared to our adjusted cost basis of approximately $239.1 million. The value of our investment in UMC would be materially impacted if there was a significant change in the market price of the UMC shares. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," for additional information about our UMC investment. 33  
 
