Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information about our revenues from our classes of products. Research and Development Our research and development activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ICs, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of IP cores of logic and the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and lowering power consumption. As a result of our research and development efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past years including the Virtex 5 and Virtex 4 series of FPGAs, and the Spartan 3 FPGA series. Additionally, we have made major enhancements to our IP core offerings and introduced new versions of our ISE software. To support embedded processing and DSP design on our platform FPGA devices, the Platform Studio tool suite and System Generator for DSP have been further enhanced. We extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 90 nm and 65 nm complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) manufacturing technology and we are the first company in the PLD industry to ship 65 nm devices. Our research and development challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost effective solutions for customers. In fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, our research and development expenses were $388.1 million, $326.1 million and $307.4 million, respectively. We believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and we are committed to continuing a significant level of research and development effort. However, there can be no assurance that any of our research and development efforts will be successful, timely or cost effective. Sales and Distribution We sell our products to OEMs and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to OEMs or subcontract manufacturers. We use a dedicated global sales and marketing organization as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. In general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing those customers in defined territories. Distributors create demand within the balance of our customer base. Distributors also provide vendor managed inventory, value added services and logistics for a wide range of our OEM customers. 7 Whether Xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. In such situations, distributors are the legal sellers of the products and as such they bear all risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign currency fluctuations. In accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a subsequent change in list prices. Revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors end customer. Avnet, Inc. (Avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005. In July 2005, two of the Companys distributors, Avnet and the Memec Group (Memec), consolidated and merged into one entity, with Avnet as the surviving company. As of March 31, 2007 and April 1, 2006, the combined Avnet/Memec entity accounted for 86% and 78% of the Companys total accounts receivable, respectively. Resale of product through this combined entity accounted for 67% of the Companys worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2007. Had this acquisition been completed for all periods presented, resale of product through this combined entity would have accounted for 70% and 76% of the Companys worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. We also use other regional distributors throughout the world. From time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, as we deem appropriate given the level of business and their performance. We believe distributors provide a cost effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. Since PLDs are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for information about concentrations of credit risk. Please also see Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for financial information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. Backlog As of March 31, 2007, our backlog from OEM customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $190.0 million, compared to $223.0 million as of April 1, 2006. Orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. As a result, backlogs from both OEM customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. Wafer Fabrication As a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our products. Rather, we purchase wafers from multiple foundries including United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC), Toshiba Corporation (Toshiba) and Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko). Currently, UMC manufactures the substantial majority of our wafers. Precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by our periodic negotiations with the wafer foundries. Our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ICs and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. We continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of leading edge process technologies. As a result, we entered into agreements with UMC, Toshiba and Seiko as discussed below. In September 1995, we entered into a joint venture with UMC and other parties to construct a wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan, known as United Silicon Inc. (USIC). In January 2000, as a result of the merger of USIC into UMC, our equity position in USIC was converted into shares of UMC, which are publicly traded on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. We retain monthly guaranteed wafer capacity rights in UMC as long as we retain a certain percentage of our original UMC shares. Also see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. In fiscal 1997, we signed a wafer purchasing agreement with Seiko that was amended in fiscal 1998, 1999 and 2000. Seiko manufactures wafers for our older, more mature product lines. 8 In October 2004, the Company entered into an advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba under which the Company paid Toshiba a total of $100.0 million in two equal installments for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement. The original agreement was extended to December 2007. The entire advance payment of $100.0 million is being reduced by wafer purchases from Toshiba and any unused portion is fully refundable in December 2007 if Toshiba is not able to maintain ongoing production and quality criteria or if future wafer purchases do not exceed the total amount advanced. The balance of the advance payment remaining was $40.0 million at March 31, 2007. Sort, Assembly and Test Wafers purchased are sorted by the foundry, independent sort subcontractors, or by Xilinx. Sorted wafers are assembled by subcontractors. During the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. Following assembly, the packaged units are tested by Xilinx personnel at our San Jose, California, Dublin, Ireland or Singapore facilities or by independent test subcontractors. We purchase most of our assembly and some of our testing services from Siliconware Precision Industries Ltd. in Taiwan and from Amkor Technology, Inc. in Korea and the Philippines. Quality Certification Xilinx achieved ISO 9001 quality certification in 1995 in San Jose, California, in 2001 in Dublin, Ireland and in 2004 in Longmont, Colorado, the main site for our software development efforts. In addition, Xilinx achieved ISO 14001, TL 9000 and TS 16949 environmental and quality certifications in the San Jose, Dublin and Singapore locations. Patents and Licenses While our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. As of March 31, 2007, we held 1,562 issued United States patents relating to our products, which vary in duration. We maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, software, IC architecture, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to PLDs. We intend to vigorously protect our intellectual property. We believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights (for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) or to effectively protect our trade secrets could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the future, we may incur litigation expenses to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. However, any such litigation may or may not be successful. We have acquired various software licenses that permit us to grant sublicenses to our customers for certain third party software programs licensed with our software design tools. In addition, we have licensed certain software for internal use in product design. We are also licensed under certain third party patents and have provided some third parties licenses under Company patents. Employees As of March 31, 2007, we had 3,353 employees compared to 3,295 at the end of the prior fiscal year. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. Executive Officers of the Registrant Certain information regarding each of Xilinxs executive officers is set forth below: Name Age Position Willem P. Roelandts 62 President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors Patrick W. Little 44 Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Services Iain M. Morris 50 Executive Vice President and General Manager Jon A. Olson 53 Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer Boon C. Ooi 53 Vice President, Worldwide Operations Omid Tahernia 46 Vice President and General Manager Sandeep S. Vij 41 Vice President, Worldwide Marketing 9 There are no family relationships among the executive officers of the Company or the Board of Directors. Willem P. Wim Roelandts joined the Company in January 1996 as Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Companys Board of Directors. In April 1996, Mr. Roelandts was appointed to the additional position of President of the Company and he assumed the role of Chairman of the Board of Directors on August 7, 2003 upon the retirement of Bernard V. Vonderschmitt. Prior to joining the Company, he served at Hewlett Packard Company as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Computer Systems Organizations from August 1992 through January 1996 and as Vice President and General Manager of the Network Systems Group from December 1990 through August 1992. Mr. Roelandts also serves as a director of Applied Materials, Inc. Patrick W. Little joined the Company in March 2003 as Vice President and General Manager and was promoted in March 2005 to Vice President of Worldwide Sales. Mr. Little was promoted to his current position of Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Services in December 2005. From September 1999 to March 2003, he served as President and CEO of Believe, Inc. Mr. Little served as Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Rendition, Inc. from March 1998 to September 1999. He was General Manager of the Audio Business Division of Diamond Multimedia Systems, Inc., and held various senior management positions at Trident Microsystems, Inc. and Opti, Inc., from 1992 to 1998. Iain M. Morris joined the Company in November 2006 as Executive Vice President and General Manager. From December 2003 to May 2006, Mr. Morris was Senior Vice President at Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. with responsibility for the Digital Media and Pervasive Computing Group. From February 2001 to August 2003, Mr. Morris served at Hewlett Packard Company, where he was Senior Vice President of Mobility and Emerging Business and President of Embedded and Personal Systems, respectively. Prior to joining Hewlett Packard Company, he spent nearly 25 years at Motorola, Inc. serving in a variety of positions where he oversaw divisions involved with engineering, product development, marketing and direct sales. Jon A. Olson joined the Company in June 2005 as Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Olson was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in August 2006. He has overall responsibility for worldwide finance, tax, business and strategy development, information technology, treasury and investor relations and administrative responsibility for internal audit. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Olson spent more than 25 years at Intel Corporation serving in a variety of positions, including Vice President, Finance and Enterprise Services, Director of Finance. Boon C. Ooi joined the Company in November 2003 as Vice President, Worldwide Operations. He has overall responsibility for worldwide manufacturing, testing, assembly engineering and supply chain management for Xilinx programmable logic devices. Mr. Ooi also oversees strategic management of the Companys semiconductor foundry and packaging suppliers. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Ooi spent more than 25 years at Intel Corporation serving in a variety of positions, including Vice President of the Corporate Technology Group and Director of Operations. Omid Tahernia joined the Company in August 2004 as Vice President and General Manager. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Tahernia worked at Motorola, Inc. for over 20 years in both the equipment and semiconductor segments. From January 1999 to May 2003, he served at Motorola Semiconductor as Vice President and General Manager of the Wireless and Mobile Systems Division driving chipset platforms including baseband processors and from May 2003 to June 2004 as Vice President and Director of Worldwide Strategy and Business Development for the Wireless Group. Previously, Mr. Tahernia held various management positions in Motorolas Paging Division. Sandeep S. Vij joined the Company in April 1996 as Director, FPGA Marketing and was promoted to Vice President, Marketing and General Manager in October 1996. Mr. Vij assumed his current position of Vice President, Worldwide Marketing in July 2001. From 1990 until April 1996, he served at Altera Corporation in a variety of marketing roles. Mr. Vij also serves as a director of Coherent Inc. Additional Information Our Internet address is www.xilinx.com. We make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10 K is located at the SECs Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation 10 of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. The content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. Additional information required by this Item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned Net Revenues Net Revenues by Geography in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and to Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Companys management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. If any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and cyclical market patterns which contribute to create factors that may affect our future operating results including: Market Demand increased dependence on turns orders (orders received and shipped within the same fiscal quarter); limited visibility of demand for products, especially new products; reduced capital spending by our customers; weaker demand for our products or those of our customers due to a prolonged period of economic uncertainty; excess inventory at Xilinx and within the supply chain including overbuilding of OEM products; additional excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding write downs due to a significant deterioration in demand; inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of a given product in a timely manner; inability to obtain manufacturing or test and assembly capacity in sufficient volume; inability to predict the success of our customers products in their markets; an unexpected increase in demand resulting in longer lead times that causes delays in customer production schedules; dependence on the health of the end markets and customers we serve; Competitive Environment price and product competition, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation; customers converting to ASIC or ASSP designs from Xilinx PLDs; faster than normal erosion of average selling prices; timely introduction of new products and ability to manufacture in sufficient quantities at introduction; Technology lower gross margins due to product or customer mix shifts and reduced manufacturing efficiency; failure to retain or attract specialized technical/management personnel; timely introduction of advanced manufacturing technologies; ability to safeguard the Companys products from competitors by means of patents and other intellectual property protections; impact of new technologies which result in rapid escalation of demand for certain products with corresponding declines in demand for others; ability to successfully manage multiple vendor relationships; Other changes in accounting pronouncements; dependence on distributors to generate sales and process customer orders; disruption in sales generation, order processing and logistics if a distributor materially defaults on a contract; impact of changes to current export/import laws and regulations; 11 volatility of the securities market, particularly as it relates to the technology sector; unexpected product quality issues; global events impacting the world economy or specific regions of the world; increase in the cost of natural resources; parts shortages at our suppliers; failure of information systems impacting financial reporting; catastrophes that impact the ability of our supply chain to operate or deliver product; and higher costs associated with multiple foundry relationships. We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Due to these and other factors, our past results, including those described in this report, are much less reliable predictors of the future than with companies in many older, more stable and mature industries. Based on the factors noted herein, we may experience substantial fluctuations in future operating results. Our results of operations are impacted by global economic and political conditions, dependence on new products, dependence on independent manufacturers and subcontractors, competition, intellectual property, potential effect of new accounting pronouncements, financial reporting and internal controls environment and litigation, each of which is discussed in greater detail below. Potential Effect of Global Economic and Political Conditions Sales and operations outside of the U.S. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business and by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. For example, we have sales and operations in the Asia Pacific region, Japan and Europe. Past economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues, and such conditions may occur in the future. Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. While the recent movement of the Euro and Yen against the U.S. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our European and Japanese customers. Currency instability may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers ability to repay existing obligations. Increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign currency denominated costs, assets and liabilities. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. Our financial condition and results of operations are increasingly dependent on the global economy. Any instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political instability or terrorist activity could impact economic activity and could lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. Additional risks to us include U.S. military actions, changes in U.S. government spending on military and defense activities impacting defense associated sales, economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. government, government regulation of exports, imposition of tariffs and other potential trade barriers, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, rising oil prices and generally longer receivable collection periods. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. Dependence on New Products Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities (design wins); availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 65nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; 12 availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined IP cores of logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and successful deployment of electronic systems by our customers. Our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. Revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. As a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. We rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Dependence on Independent Manufacturers and Subcontractors During fiscal 2007, nearly all of our wafers were manufactured either in Taiwan, by UMC or in Japan, by Toshiba or Seiko. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between Xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short term agreements. We are dependent on these foundries, especially UMC, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. We rely on UMC to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. These attributes include an ability to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields, and deliver them in a timely manner. We cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies. In addition, greater demand for wafers produced by the foundries without an offsetting increase in foundry capacity, raises the likelihood of potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages. UMCs foundries in Taiwan and Toshibas and Seikos foundries in Japan as well as many of our operations in California are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past. Should there be a major earthquake in our suppliers or our operating locations in the future, our operations, including our manufacturing activities, may be disrupted. This type of disruption could result in our inability to ship products in a timely manner, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, test and shipment services. Any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, unavailability of or disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand reducing net sales and negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. Competition Our PLDs compete in the logic IC industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. We expect increased competition from our primary PLD competitors, Altera Corporation (Altera), Lattice Semiconductor Corporation and Actel Corporation, from the ASIC market, which has been ongoing since the inception of FPGAs, from the ASSP market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. We believe that important competitive factors in the logic industry include: product pricing; time to market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; 13 ease of use and functionality of software design tools; functionality of predefined IP cores of logic; inventory management; access to leading edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high volume, low cost and low power applications as well as high performance, high density applications. In addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. However, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies. Other competitors include manufacturers of: high density programmable logic products characterized by FPGA type architectures; high volume and low cost FPGAs as programmable replacements for ASICs and ASSPs; ASICs and ASSPs with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high speed, low density CPLDs; high performance DSP devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. Several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to enter the PLD segment. To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to the market segment. We recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. Recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our IC products. We believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in the PLD market segment. We could also face competition from our licensees. We have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology which may enable them to manufacture and market products which may be competitive with some of our older products. For example, in July 2001, in connection with a settlement of patent litigation with Altera, we entered into a royalty free patent cross license agreement which terminated in July 2006. Intellectual Property We rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future; assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation and we may not prevail in such litigation or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Any infringement claim or other litigation against us or by us could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Considerable Number of Common Shares Subject to Future Issuance As of March 31, 2007, we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 295.9 million shares were outstanding. In addition, 99.7 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to employee stock option and employee stock purchase plans (Equity Plans), and 32.1 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 3.125% junior subordinated convertible debentures (debentures). The availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our Equity Plans or the conversion or repurchase of debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. 14 Potential Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements There may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which may have an impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. For example, the accounting method for convertible debt securities with net share settlement, such as our debentures, may be subject to change. Under the accounting rules currently in effect, for the purpose of calculating diluted net income per common share, a convertible debt security providing for net share settlement of the conversion value and meeting specified requirements under applicable accounting rules, is accounted for interest expense purposes similarly to non convertible debt. As a result, stated coupon constituting interest expense and any shares issuable upon conversion of the debt security would be accounted for under the treasury stock method. The effect of the treasury stock method is that the shares potentially issuable upon conversion of the debentures are not included in the calculation of our diluted net income per common share except to the extent that the conversion value of the debentures exceeds their principal amount, in which event the number of shares of our common stock necessary to settle the conversion are treated as having been issued for diluted net income per common share purposes. The accounting method for net share settled convertible securities is currently under consideration by the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Under consideration is a proposed method for accounting for net share settled convertible securities under which the debt and equity components of the security would be bifurcated and accounted for separately. We cannot predict the outcome of this process or any other changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) that may affect accounting for convertible debt securities. Any change in the accounting method for convertible debt securities could have an adverse impact on our financial results. These impacts could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and in turn negatively impact the trading price of the debentures. Please see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about the debentures. Please also see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about recent accounting pronouncements. Financial Reporting and Internal Controls Environment We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (the Act). Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. The identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements. Further, our internal control effectiveness may be impacted if we are unable to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. Litigation See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate offices, which include the administrative, sales, customer support, marketing, research and development and manufacturing and testing groups, are located in San Jose, California. This main site consists of adjacent buildings providing 588,000 square feet of space, which we own. We also own two parcels of land totaling approximately 121 acres in South San Jose near our corporate facility. At present, we do not have any plans to develop the land. We also have a 106,000 square foot leased facility in San Jose which we do not occupy and which is presently listed for subleasing. In addition, we own a 228,000 square foot facility in the metropolitan area of Dublin, Ireland which serves as our regional headquarters in Europe. The Irish facility is primarily used for manufacturing and testing of our products, service and support for our customers in Europe, research and development and information technology (IT) support. In April 2004, we entered into a sublease on a 15,000 square foot facility in Singapore, which serves as our Asia Pacific regional headquarters. Subsequent to this sublease, in late 2004 and in 2005, we subleased an additional 15,000 square feet of office space and test floor area in the same facility. The Singapore facility is primarily 15 used for manufacturing and testing of our products, service and support for our customers in Asia Pacific/Japan, coordination and management of certain third parties in our supply chain and research and development. In November 2005, Xilinx made an investment commitment of $37.0 million for a new building in Singapore. Construction commenced on schedule in November 2005 and the project is expected to be completed in June 2007. Once completed, the new building is expected to have 222,000 square feet of available space. We also own a 130,000 square foot facility in Longmont, Colorado. The Longmont facility serves as the primary location for our software efforts in the areas of research and development, manufacturing and quality control. In addition, we also own a 200,000 square foot facility and 40 acres of land adjacent to the Longmont facility for future expansion. The facility is partially leased to tenants under short term lease agreements and partially used by the Company. We own a 45,000 square foot facility in Albuquerque, New Mexico which is used for the development of our CoolRunner CPLD product families as well as IP cores. We lease office facilities for our engineering design centers in Austin, Texas, Grenoble, France and Edinburgh, Scotland. We also lease sales offices in various locations throughout North America, which include the metropolitan areas of Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Los Angeles, Nashua, Ottawa, Raleigh, San Diego, San Jose and Toronto as well as international sales offices located in the metropolitan areas of Beijing, Brussels, Helsinki, Hong Kong, London, Milan, Munich, Osaka, Paris, Seoul, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Stockholm, Taipei, Tel Aviv and Tokyo. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Internal Revenue Service The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audited and issued proposed adjustments to the Company for fiscal 1996 through 2001. The Company filed petitions with the Tax Court in response to assertions by the IRS relating to fiscal 1996 through 2000. To date, all issues have been settled with the IRS except as described in the following paragraph. On August 30, 2005, the Tax Court issued its opinion concerning whether the value of stock options must be included in the cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Tax Court agreed with the Company that no amount for stock options was to be included in the cost sharing agreement, and thus, the Company had no tax, interest, or penalties due for this issue. The decision was entered by the Tax Court on May 31, 2006. On August 25, 2006, the IRS appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeal for the Ninth Circuit. The IRS and the Company have each filed briefs. The briefing is now complete and the parties are waiting for the U.S. Court of Appeal for the Ninth Circuit to set a date for oral arguments. Other than as stated above, we know of no legal proceedings contemplated by any governmental authority or agency against the Company. Patent Litigation On October 17, 2005, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed by Lizy K. John (John) against Xilinx in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division. John sought an injunction, unspecified damages and attorneys fees. On November 27, 2006, the Company settled the patent infringement lawsuit with John, under which the Company agreed to pay $6.5 million. John agreed to dismiss the patent infringement lawsuit with prejudice, granted a patent license to the Company and executed an agreement not to sue the Company under any patent owned or controlled by John for ten years. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. SEC Informal Inquiry On June 22, 2006, the Company received notice from the SEC advising that the SEC had commenced an informal inquiry into the Companys historical stock option granting practices. The notice included an informal request for documents. Based on the results of the investigation performed by outside counsel at the direction of a Special Committee of the Board of Directors and the Companys analysis of the facts, the Company took a $2.2 million charge to its earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2007. The charge was based on the difference between recorded grant dates and measurement dates in certain stock option grants between 1997 and 2006. The investigation found no evidence of fraud in the Companys practices in granting of stock options, nor any evidence of manipulation of the timing or exercise price of stock option grants. The investigation further found no issues of management 16 integrity in the issuance of stock options. The investigation determined that in nearly all cases, stock options were issued as of pre set dates. The Special Committee and the Board of Directors declared the investigation to be concluded. On November 28, 2006, the SEC formally notified the Company that its investigation of the Companys stock option granting practices was terminated and that no enforcement action was recommended. Stockholder Derivative Lawsuits On June 2, 2006, a Xilinx stockholder filed a derivative complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California (Murphy v. Roelandts et al., Case No. C 06 3564 RMW), purportedly on behalf of the Company, against members of the Companys Board of Directors and against certain of the Companys officers. The complaint alleged, among other things, that defendants mismanaged corporate assets and breached their fiduciary duties between 1998 and the date of filing by authorizing or failing to halt the backdating of certain stock options. The complaint also alleged that the officer defendants were unjustly enriched by their receipt and retention of the backdated stock option grants and that the Company issued false and misleading proxy statements in fiscal 2002 and 2003. On June 28, 2006, a second Xilinx stockholder filed a separate, but substantially similar, derivative complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California (Blum v. Roelandts et al., Case No. C 06 4016 JW), purportedly on behalf of the Company, against members of the Companys Board of Directors and against certain of the Companys officers. The complaint alleged, among other things, that defendants mismanaged corporate assets and breached their fiduciary duties between 1998 and the date of filing by authorizing or failing to halt the backdating of certain stock options. The complaint also alleged that defendants were unjustly enriched by the receipt and retention of the backdated stock option grants and that certain of the defendants sold Xilinx stock for a profit while in possession of material, non public information. The complaint also alleged that the Company issued false and misleading financial disclosures and proxy statements from fiscal 1998 through 2006. In addition, the complaint alleged that defendants engaged in a fraudulent scheme to divert millions of dollars to themselves via improper option grants. The two stockholder derivative complaints were consolidated into one stockholder derivative case. On January 8, 2007, the consolidated stockholder derivative case was dismissed by the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. Other Matters From time to time, we are involved in various disputes and litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contract law, distribution arrangements and employee relations matters. Periodically, we review the status of each significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and a range of possible losses can be estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Legal proceedings are subject to uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict. Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we continue to reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise estimates. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report. 17 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol XLNX. As of May 3, 2007, there were approximately 1,012 stockholders of record. Since many holders shares are listed under their brokerage firms names, the actual number of stockholders is estimated by the Company to be over 110,000. The following table sets forth the high and low closing sale prices, for the periods indicated, for our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market: Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2006 High Low High Low First Quarter $29.31 $22.31 $29.96 $25.48 Second Quarter 23.31 19.60 29.09 25.68 Third Quarter 28.25 22.14 28.14 21.94 Fourth Quarter 26.60 22.97 29.79 24.92 Dividends Declared Per Common Share Fiscal Fiscal 2007 2006 First Quarter $0.09 $0.07 Second Quarter 0.09 0.07 Third Quarter 0.09 0.07 Fourth Quarter 0.09 0.07 On February 26, 2007, our Board of Directors approved an increase to our quarterly common stock dividend for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 from $0.09 per common share to $0.12 per common share. The dividend is payable on May 30, 2007 to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 9, 2007. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table summarizes the Companys repurchase of its common stock during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for information regarding our stock repurchase plans. Approximate Total Number of Dollar Value of Total Number Average Shares Purchased Shares that May of Shares Price Paid as Part of Publicly Yet Be Purchased Period Purchased per Share Announced Program Under the Program (In thousands, except per share amounts) December 31, 2006 to February 3, 2007 4,109 $24.34 4,109 $173,888 February 4 to March 3, 2007 27,647 $27.13 (1) 27,647 $923,888 March 4 to March 31, 2007 6,950 $25.90 6,950 $743,888 Total for the Quarter 38,706 $26.61 38,706 (1) Under the terms of the accelerated share repurchase program (ASR) entered into during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company paid $700.0 million upfront in exchange for a minimum number of shares of its common stock, which were delivered to the Company before the fiscal year end. The $700.0 million was recorded in stockholders equity in fiscal 2007. Upon completion of the ASR, the Company may receive up to an additional 1.9 million shares in either the first or second quarter of fiscal 2008, depending on the volume weighted average price, during an averaging period, less a specified discount. If additional shares are received in either the first or second quarter of fiscal 2008, a reclassification adjustment will be recorded within stockholders equity in that period. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased a total of 38.7 million shares of its common stock for $1.03 billion, including 10.6 million shares for $273.9 million that completed its $600.0 million repurchase program announced on February 13, 2006. On February 26, 2007, we announced a further repurchase program of 18 up to an additional $1.50 billion of common stock. Through March 31, 2007, the Company had repurchased $756.1 million of the $1.50 billion of common stock approved for repurchase under the February 2007 authorization. These share repurchase programs have no stated expiration date. Company Stock Price Performance The following chart shows a comparison of cumulative total return for the Companys common stock, the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index (S&P 500 Index), and the Standard & Poors 500 Semiconductors Index (S&P 500 Semiconductors). The total stockholder return assumes $100 invested on March 31, 2002 in Xilinx, Inc. common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Semiconductors and assumes all dividends are reinvested. Base Indexed Returns Period Years Ended Company / Index Mar02 Mar03 Mar04 Mar05 Mar06 Mar07 Xilinx, Inc. 100 58.73 94.73 73.81 64.95 66.58 S&P 500 Index 100 75.24 101.66 108.47 121.19 135.52 S&P 500 Semiconductors 100 51.56 88.45 74.98 81.20 74.97 Note: Stock price performance and indexed returns for our Common Stock are historical and are not an indicator of future price performance or future investment returns. Additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the table set forth in Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 19 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Consolidated Statement of Income Data Five years ended March 31, 2007 (In thousands, except per share amounts) 2007(1) 2006(2) 2005(3) 2004(4) 2003(5) Net revenues $ 1,842,739 $ 1,726,250 $ 1,573,233 $ 1,397,846 $ 1,155,977 Operating income (6) 347,767 412,062 372,040 327,135 155,669 Income before income taxes (6) 431,146 456,602 400,544 350,544 169,872 Provision for income taxes 80,474 102,453 87,821 47,555 44,167 Net income 350,672 354,149 312,723 302,989 125,705 Net income per common share: Basic $ 1.04 $ 1.01 $ 0.90 $ 0.89 $ 0.37 Diluted $ 1.02 $ 1.00 $ 0.87 $ 0.85 $ 0.36 Shares used in per share calculations: Basic 337,920 349,026 347,810 341,427 337,069 Diluted 343,636 355,065 358,230 354,551 348,622 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.36 $ 0.28 $ 0.20 $ $ (1) Income before income taxes includes a charge of $5,934 related to an impairment of a leased facility that the Company no longer intends to occupy, a loss related to litigation settlements and contingencies of $2,500, stock based compensation related to prior years of $2,209, an impairment loss on investments of $1,950 and a gain of $7,016 from the sale of a portion of the Companys UMC investment. (2) Income before income taxes includes a loss related to litigation settlements and contingencies of $3,165, a write off of acquired in process research and development of $4,500 related to the acquisition of AccelChip, Inc. (AccelChip) and an impairment loss on investments of $1,418. (3) Income before income taxes includes a write off of acquired in process research and development of $7,198 related to the acquisition of Hier Design Inc. (HDI) and impairment loss on investments of $3,099. (4) Income before income taxes includes an impairment loss on excess facilities of $3,376, a loss related to litigation settlements and contingencies of $6,400 and a write off of acquired in process research and development of $6,969 related to the acquisition of Triscend Corporation (Triscend). Net income includes a $34,418 reduction in taxes associated with an IRS tax settlement. (5) Income before income taxes includes an impairment loss on excess facilities and equipment of $54,691 and impairment loss on investments of $10,425. (6) The Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)) in fiscal 2007. Results for prior fiscal years do not include the effects of stock based compensation (see Notes 2 and 3 to our consolidated financial statements in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and to Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Companys management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. If any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and cyclical market patterns which contribute to create factors that may affect our future operating results including: Market Demand increased dependence on turns orders (orders received and shipped within the same fiscal quarter); limited visibility of demand for products, especially new products; reduced capital spending by our customers; weaker demand for our products or those of our customers due to a prolonged period of economic uncertainty; excess inventory at Xilinx and within the supply chain including overbuilding of OEM products; additional excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding write downs due to a significant deterioration in demand; inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of a given product in a timely manner; inability to obtain manufacturing or test and assembly capacity in sufficient volume; inability to predict the success of our customers products in their markets; an unexpected increase in demand resulting in longer lead times that causes delays in customer production schedules; dependence on the health of the end markets and customers we serve; Competitive Environment price and product competition, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation; customers converting to ASIC or ASSP designs from Xilinx PLDs; faster than normal erosion of average selling prices; timely introduction of new products and ability to manufacture in sufficient quantities at introduction; Technology lower gross margins due to product or customer mix shifts and reduced manufacturing efficiency; failure to retain or attract specialized technical/management personnel; timely introduction of advanced manufacturing technologies; ability to safeguard the Companys products from competitors by means of patents and other intellectual property protections; impact of new technologies which result in rapid escalation of demand for certain products with corresponding declines in demand for others; ability to successfully manage multiple vendor relationships; Other changes in accounting pronouncements; dependence on distributors to generate sales and process customer orders; disruption in sales generation, order processing and logistics if a distributor materially defaults on a contract; impact of changes to current export/import laws and regulations; 11 volatility of the securities market, particularly as it relates to the technology sector; unexpected product quality issues; global events impacting the world economy or specific regions of the world; increase in the cost of natural resources; parts shortages at our suppliers; failure of information systems impacting financial reporting; catastrophes that impact the ability of our supply chain to operate or deliver product; and higher costs associated with multiple foundry relationships. We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Due to these and other factors, our past results, including those described in this report, are much less reliable predictors of the future than with companies in many older, more stable and mature industries. Based on the factors noted herein, we may experience substantial fluctuations in future operating results. Our results of operations are impacted by global economic and political conditions, dependence on new products, dependence on independent manufacturers and subcontractors, competition, intellectual property, potential effect of new accounting pronouncements, financial reporting and internal controls environment and litigation, each of which is discussed in greater detail below. Potential Effect of Global Economic and Political Conditions Sales and operations outside of the U.S. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business and by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. For example, we have sales and operations in the Asia Pacific region, Japan and Europe. Past economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues, and such conditions may occur in the future. Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. While the recent movement of the Euro and Yen against the U.S. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our European and Japanese customers. Currency instability may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers ability to repay existing obligations. Increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign currency denominated costs, assets and liabilities. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. Our financial condition and results of operations are increasingly dependent on the global economy. Any instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political instability or terrorist activity could impact economic activity and could lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. Additional risks to us include U.S. military actions, changes in U.S. government spending on military and defense activities impacting defense associated sales, economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. government, government regulation of exports, imposition of tariffs and other potential trade barriers, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, rising oil prices and generally longer receivable collection periods. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. Dependence on New Products Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities (design wins); availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 65nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; 12 availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined IP cores of logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and successful deployment of electronic systems by our customers. Our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. Revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. As a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. We rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Dependence on Independent Manufacturers and Subcontractors During fiscal 2007, nearly all of our wafers were manufactured either in Taiwan, by UMC or in Japan, by Toshiba or Seiko. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between Xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short term agreements. We are dependent on these foundries, especially UMC, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. We rely on UMC to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. These attributes include an ability to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields, and deliver them in a timely manner. We cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies. In addition, greater demand for wafers produced by the foundries without an offsetting increase in foundry capacity, raises the likelihood of potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages. UMCs foundries in Taiwan and Toshibas and Seikos foundries in Japan as well as many of our operations in California are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past. Should there be a major earthquake in our suppliers or our operating locations in the future, our operations, including our manufacturing activities, may be disrupted. This type of disruption could result in our inability to ship products in a timely manner, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, test and shipment services. Any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, unavailability of or disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand reducing net sales and negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. Competition Our PLDs compete in the logic IC industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. We expect increased competition from our primary PLD competitors, Altera Corporation (Altera), Lattice Semiconductor Corporation and Actel Corporation, from the ASIC market, which has been ongoing since the inception of FPGAs, from the ASSP market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. We believe that important competitive factors in the logic industry include: product pricing; time to market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; 13 ease of use and functionality of software design tools; functionality of predefined IP cores of logic; inventory management; access to leading edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high volume, low cost and low power applications as well as high performance, high density applications. In addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. However, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies. Other competitors include manufacturers of: high density programmable logic products characterized by FPGA type architectures; high volume and low cost FPGAs as programmable replacements for ASICs and ASSPs; ASICs and ASSPs with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high speed, low density CPLDs; high performance DSP devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. Several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to enter the PLD segment. To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to the market segment. We recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. Recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our IC products. We believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in the PLD market segment. We could also face competition from our licensees. We have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology which may enable them to manufacture and market products which may be competitive with some of our older products. For example, in July 2001, in connection with a settlement of patent litigation with Altera, we entered into a royalty free patent cross license agreement which terminated in July 2006. Intellectual Property We rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future; assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation and we may not prevail in such litigation or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Any infringement claim or other litigation against us or by us could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Considerable Number of Common Shares Subject to Future Issuance As of March 31, 2007, we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 295.9 million shares were outstanding. In addition, 99.7 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to employee stock option and employee stock purchase plans (Equity Plans), and 32.1 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 3.125% junior subordinated convertible debentures (debentures). The availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our Equity Plans or the conversion or repurchase of debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. 14 Potential Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements There may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which may have an impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. For example, the accounting method for convertible debt securities with net share settlement, such as our debentures, may be subject to change. Under the accounting rules currently in effect, for the purpose of calculating diluted net income per common share, a convertible debt security providing for net share settlement of the conversion value and meeting specified requirements under applicable accounting rules, is accounted for interest expense purposes similarly to non convertible debt. As a result, stated coupon constituting interest expense and any shares issuable upon conversion of the debt security would be accounted for under the treasury stock method. The effect of the treasury stock method is that the shares potentially issuable upon conversion of the debentures are not included in the calculation of our diluted net income per common share except to the extent that the conversion value of the debentures exceeds their principal amount, in which event the number of shares of our common stock necessary to settle the conversion are treated as having been issued for diluted net income per common share purposes. The accounting method for net share settled convertible securities is currently under consideration by the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Under consideration is a proposed method for accounting for net share settled convertible securities under which the debt and equity components of the security would be bifurcated and accounted for separately. We cannot predict the outcome of this process or any other changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) that may affect accounting for convertible debt securities. Any change in the accounting method for convertible debt securities could have an adverse impact on our financial results. These impacts could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and in turn negatively impact the trading price of the debentures. Please see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about the debentures. Please also see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about recent accounting pronouncements. Financial Reporting and Internal Controls Environment We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (the Act). Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. The identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements. Further, our internal control effectiveness may be impacted if we are unable to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. Litigation See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate offices, which include the administrative, sales, customer support, marketing, research and development and manufacturing and testing groups, are located in San Jose, California. This main site consists of adjacent buildings providing 588,000 square feet of space, which we own. We also own two parcels of land totaling approximately 121 acres in South San Jose near our corporate facility. At present, we do not have any plans to develop the land. We also have a 106,000 square foot leased facility in San Jose which we do not occupy and which is presently listed for subleasing. In addition, we own a 228,000 square foot facility in the metropolitan area of Dublin, Ireland which serves as our regional headquarters in Europe. The Irish facility is primarily used for manufacturing and testing of our products, service and support for our customers in Europe, research and development and information technology (IT) support. In April 2004, we entered into a sublease on a 15,000 square foot facility in Singapore, which serves as our Asia Pacific regional headquarters. Subsequent to this sublease, in late 2004 and in 2005, we subleased an additional 15,000 square feet of office space and test floor area in the same facility. The Singapore facility is primarily 15 used for manufacturing and testing of our products, service and support for our customers in Asia Pacific/Japan, coordination and management of certain third parties in our supply chain and research and development. In November 2005, Xilinx made an investment commitment of $37.0 million for a new building in Singapore. Construction commenced on schedule in November 2005 and the project is expected to be completed in June 2007. Once completed, the new building is expected to have 222,000 square feet of available space. We also own a 130,000 square foot facility in Longmont, Colorado. The Longmont facility serves as the primary location for our software efforts in the areas of research and development, manufacturing and quality control. In addition, we also own a 200,000 square foot facility and 40 acres of land adjacent to the Longmont facility for future expansion. The facility is partially leased to tenants under short term lease agreements and partially used by the Company. We own a 45,000 square foot facility in Albuquerque, New Mexico which is used for the development of our CoolRunner CPLD product families as well as IP cores. We lease office facilities for our engineering design centers in Austin, Texas, Grenoble, France and Edinburgh, Scotland. We also lease sales offices in various locations throughout North America, which include the metropolitan areas of Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Los Angeles, Nashua, Ottawa, Raleigh, San Diego, San Jose and Toronto as well as international sales offices located in the metropolitan areas of Beijing, Brussels, Helsinki, Hong Kong, London, Milan, Munich, Osaka, Paris, Seoul, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Stockholm, Taipei, Tel Aviv and Tokyo. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Internal Revenue Service The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audited and issued proposed adjustments to the Company for fiscal 1996 through 2001. The Company filed petitions with the Tax Court in response to assertions by the IRS relating to fiscal 1996 through 2000. To date, all issues have been settled with the IRS except as described in the following paragraph. On August 30, 2005, the Tax Court issued its opinion concerning whether the value of stock options must be included in the cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Tax Court agreed with the Company that no amount for stock options was to be included in the cost sharing agreement, and thus, the Company had no tax, interest, or penalties due for this issue. The decision was entered by the Tax Court on May 31, 2006. On August 25, 2006, the IRS appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeal for the Ninth Circuit. The IRS and the Company have each filed briefs. The briefing is now complete and the parties are waiting for the U.S. Court of Appeal for the Ninth Circuit to set a date for oral arguments. Other than as stated above, we know of no legal proceedings contemplated by any governmental authority or agency against the Company. Patent Litigation On October 17, 2005, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed by Lizy K. John (John) against Xilinx in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division. John sought an injunction, unspecified damages and attorneys fees. On November 27, 2006, the Company settled the patent infringement lawsuit with John, under which the Company agreed to pay $6.5 million. John agreed to dismiss the patent infringement lawsuit with prejudice, granted a patent license to the Company and executed an agreement not to sue the Company under any patent owned or controlled by John for ten years. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. SEC Informal Inquiry On June 22, 2006, the Company received notice from the SEC advising that the SEC had commenced an informal inquiry into the Companys historical stock option granting practices. The notice included an informal request for documents. Based on the results of the investigation performed by outside counsel at the direction of a Special Committee of the Board of Directors and the Companys analysis of the facts, the Company took a $2.2 million charge to its earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2007. The charge was based on the difference between recorded grant dates and measurement dates in certain stock option grants between 1997 and 2006. The investigation found no evidence of fraud in the Companys practices in granting of stock options, nor any evidence of manipulation of the timing or exercise price of stock option grants. The investigation further found no issues of management 16 integrity in the issuance of stock options. The investigation determined that in nearly all cases, stock options were issued as of pre set dates. The Special Committee and the Board of Directors declared the investigation to be concluded. On November 28, 2006, the SEC formally notified the Company that its investigation of the Companys stock option granting practices was terminated and that no enforcement action was recommended. Stockholder Derivative Lawsuits On June 2, 2006, a Xilinx stockholder filed a derivative complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California (Murphy v. Roelandts et al., Case No. C 06 3564 RMW), purportedly on behalf of the Company, against members of the Companys Board of Directors and against certain of the Companys officers. The complaint alleged, among other things, that defendants mismanaged corporate assets and breached their fiduciary duties between 1998 and the date of filing by authorizing or failing to halt the backdating of certain stock options. The complaint also alleged that the officer defendants were unjustly enriched by their receipt and retention of the backdated stock option grants and that the Company issued false and misleading proxy statements in fiscal 2002 and 2003. On June 28, 2006, a second Xilinx stockholder filed a separate, but substantially similar, derivative complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California (Blum v. Roelandts et al., Case No. C 06 4016 JW), purportedly on behalf of the Company, against members of the Companys Board of Directors and against certain of the Companys officers. The complaint alleged, among other things, that defendants mismanaged corporate assets and breached their fiduciary duties between 1998 and the date of filing by authorizing or failing to halt the backdating of certain stock options. The complaint also alleged that defendants were unjustly enriched by the receipt and retention of the backdated stock option grants and that certain of the defendants sold Xilinx stock for a profit while in possession of material, non public information. The complaint also alleged that the Company issued false and misleading financial disclosures and proxy statements from fiscal 1998 through 2006. In addition, the complaint alleged that defendants engaged in a fraudulent scheme to divert millions of dollars to themselves via improper option grants. The two stockholder derivative complaints were consolidated into one stockholder derivative case. On January 8, 2007, the consolidated stockholder derivative case was dismissed by the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. Other Matters From time to time, we are involved in various disputes and litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contract law, distribution arrangements and employee relations matters. Periodically, we review the status of each significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and a range of possible losses can be estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Legal proceedings are subject to uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict. Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we continue to reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise estimates. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report. 17 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol XLNX. As of May 3, 2007, there were approximately 1,012 stockholders of record. Since many holders shares are listed under their brokerage firms names, the actual number of stockholders is estimated by the Company to be over 110,000. The following table sets forth the high and low closing sale prices, for the periods indicated, for our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market: Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2006 High Low High Low First Quarter $29.31 $22.31 $29.96 $25.48 Second Quarter 23.31 19.60 29.09 25.68 Third Quarter 28.25 22.14 28.14 21.94 Fourth Quarter 26.60 22.97 29.79 24.92 Dividends Declared Per Common Share Fiscal Fiscal 2007 2006 First Quarter $0.09 $0.07 Second Quarter 0.09 0.07 Third Quarter 0.09 0.07 Fourth Quarter 0.09 0.07 On February 26, 2007, our Board of Directors approved an increase to our quarterly common stock dividend for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 from $0.09 per common share to $0.12 per common share. The dividend is payable on May 30, 2007 to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 9, 2007. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table summarizes the Companys repurchase of its common stock during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for information regarding our stock repurchase plans. Approximate Total Number of Dollar Value of Total Number Average Shares Purchased Shares that May of Shares Price Paid as Part of Publicly Yet Be Purchased Period Purchased per Share Announced Program Under the Program (In thousands, except per share amounts) December 31, 2006 to February 3, 2007 4,109 $24.34 4,109 $173,888 February 4 to March 3, 2007 27,647 $27.13 (1) 27,647 $923,888 March 4 to March 31, 2007 6,950 $25.90 6,950 $743,888 Total for the Quarter 38,706 $26.61 38,706 (1) Under the terms of the accelerated share repurchase program (ASR) entered into during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company paid $700.0 million upfront in exchange for a minimum number of shares of its common stock, which were delivered to the Company before the fiscal year end. The $700.0 million was recorded in stockholders equity in fiscal 2007. Upon completion of the ASR, the Company may receive up to an additional 1.9 million shares in either the first or second quarter of fiscal 2008, depending on the volume weighted average price, during an averaging period, less a specified discount. If additional shares are received in either the first or second quarter of fiscal 2008, a reclassification adjustment will be recorded within stockholders equity in that period. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased a total of 38.7 million shares of its common stock for $1.03 billion, including 10.6 million shares for $273.9 million that completed its $600.0 million repurchase program announced on February 13, 2006. On February 26, 2007, we announced a further repurchase program of 18 up to an additional $1.50 billion of common stock. Through March 31, 2007, the Company had repurchased $756.1 million of the $1.50 billion of common stock approved for repurchase under the February 2007 authorization. These share repurchase programs have no stated expiration date. Company Stock Price Performance The following chart shows a comparison of cumulative total return for the Companys common stock, the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index (S&P 500 Index), and the Standard & Poors 500 Semiconductors Index (S&P 500 Semiconductors). The total stockholder return assumes $100 invested on March 31, 2002 in Xilinx, Inc. common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Semiconductors and assumes all dividends are reinvested. Base Indexed Returns Period Years Ended Company / Index Mar02 Mar03 Mar04 Mar05 Mar06 Mar07 Xilinx, Inc. 100 58.73 94.73 73.81 64.95 66.58 S&P 500 Index 100 75.24 101.66 108.47 121.19 135.52 S&P 500 Semiconductors 100 51.56 88.45 74.98 81.20 74.97 Note: Stock price performance and indexed returns for our Common Stock are historical and are not an indicator of future price performance or future investment returns. Additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the table set forth in Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 19 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Consolidated Statement of Income Data Five years ended March 31, 2007 (In thousands, except per share amounts) 2007(1) 2006(2) 2005(3) 2004(4) 2003(5) Net revenues $ 1,842,739 $ 1,726,250 $ 1,573,233 $ 1,397,846 $ 1,155,977 Operating income (6) 347,767 412,062 372,040 327,135 155,669 Income before income taxes (6) 431,146 456,602 400,544 350,544 169,872 Provision for income taxes 80,474 102,453 87,821 47,555 44,167 Net income 350,672 354,149 312,723 302,989 125,705 Net income per common share: Basic $ 1.04 $ 1.01 $ 0.90 $ 0.89 $ 0.37 Diluted $ 1.02 $ 1.00 $ 0.87 $ 0.85 $ 0.36 Shares used in per share calculations: Basic 337,920 349,026 347,810 341,427 337,069 Diluted 343,636 355,065 358,230 354,551 348,622 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.36 $ 0.28 $ 0.20 $ $ (1) Income before income taxes includes a charge of $5,934 related to an impairment of a leased facility that the Company no longer intends to occupy, a loss related to litigation settlements and contingencies of $2,500, stock based compensation related to prior years of $2,209, an impairment loss on investments of $1,950 and a gain of $7,016 from the sale of a portion of the Companys UMC investment. (2) Income before income taxes includes a loss related to litigation settlements and contingencies of $3,165, a write off of acquired in process research and development of $4,500 related to the acquisition of AccelChip, Inc. (AccelChip) and an impairment loss on investments of $1,418. (3) Income before income taxes includes a write off of acquired in process research and development of $7,198 related to the acquisition of Hier Design Inc. (HDI) and impairment loss on investments of $3,099. (4) Income before income taxes includes an impairment loss on excess facilities of $3,376, a loss related to litigation settlements and contingencies of $6,400 and a write off of acquired in process research and development of $6,969 related to the acquisition of Triscend Corporation (Triscend). Net income includes a $34,418 reduction in taxes associated with an IRS tax settlement. (5) Income before income taxes includes an impairment loss on excess facilities and equipment of $54,691 and impairment loss on investments of $10,425. (6) The Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)) in fiscal 2007. Results for prior fiscal years do not include the effects of stock based compensation (see Notes 2 and 3 to our consolidated financial statements in 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Cautionary Statement The statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis that are forward looking, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, involve numerous risks and uncertainties and are based on current expectations. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements for many reasons, including those risks discussed under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this document. Forward looking statements can often be identified by the use of forward looking words, such as may, will, could, should, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project or other similar words. We disclaim any responsibility to update any forward looking statement provided in this document. Nature of Operations We design, develop and market complete programmable logic solutions, including advanced ICs, software design tools, predefined system functions delivered as IP cores, design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. Our PLDs include FPGAs and CPLDs. These devices are standard products that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. Our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time to market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as communications, industrial, consumer, automotive and data processing. We sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors, and through direct sales to OEMs by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The SEC has defined critical accounting policies as those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, our critical accounting policies include: valuation of marketable and non marketable securities, which impacts losses on debt and equity securities when we record impairments; revenue recognition, which impacts the recording of revenues; and valuation of inventories, which impacts cost of revenues and gross margin. Our critical accounting policies also include: the assessment of impairment of long lived assets including acquisition related intangibles, which impacts their valuation; the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill, which impacts goodwill impairment; accounting for income taxes, which impacts the provision or benefit recognized for income taxes, as well as the valuation of deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet, and valuation and recognition of stock based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. Valuation of Marketable and Non marketable Securities The Companys short term and long term investments include marketable debt and equity securities and non marketable equity securities. At March 31, 2007, the Company had debt securities with a fair value of $1.69 billion, an equity investment in UMC, a publicly held Taiwanese semiconductor wafer manufacturing company, of $67.0 million, and strategic investments in non marketable equity securities of $18.0 million (adjusted cost). The fair values for marketable debt and equity securities are based on quoted market prices. In determining if and when a decline in market value below adjusted cost of marketable debt and equity securities is other than temporary, the Company evaluates quarterly the market conditions, trends of earnings, financial condition and other key measures for our investments. Xilinx adopted the provisions of FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 115 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments (FSP 21 115 1), on January 1, 2006. Beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we assessed other than temporary impairment of debt and equity securities in accordance with FSP 115 1. We have not recorded any other than temporary impairment for marketable debt and equity securities for fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005. In determining whether a decline in value of non marketable equity investments in private companies is other than temporary, the assessment is made by considering available evidence including the general market conditions in the investees industry, the investees product development status, the investees ability to meet business milestones and the financial condition and near term prospects of the individual investee, including the rate at which the investee is using its cash and the investees need for possible additional funding at a lower valuation. When a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, the Company recognizes an impairment loss in the current periods operating results to the extent of the decline. Revenue Recognition Sales to distributors are made under agreements providing distributor price adjustments and rights of return under certain circumstances. Revenue and costs relating to distributor sales are deferred until products are sold by the distributors to the distributors end customers. For fiscal 2007, approximately 86% of our net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to OEMs or their subcontract manufacturers. Revenue recognition depends on notification from the distributor that product has been sold to the distributors end customer. Also reported by the distributor are product resale price, quantity and end customer shipment information, as well as inventory on hand. Reported distributor inventory on hand is reconciled to deferred revenue balances monthly. We maintain system controls to validate distributor data and verify that the reported information is accurate. Deferred income on shipments to distributors reflects the effects of distributor price adjustments and the amount of gross margin expected to be realized when distributors sell through product purchased from the Company. Accounts receivable from distributors are recognized and inventory is relieved when title to inventories transfers, typically upon shipment from Xilinx at which point we have a legally enforceable right to collection under normal payment terms. Revenue from sales to our direct customers is recognized upon shipment provided that persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, the price is fixed, title has transferred, collection of resulting receivables is reasonably assured, and there are no customer acceptance requirements and no remaining significant obligations. For each of the periods presented, there were no formal acceptance provisions with our direct customers. Revenue from software licenses is deferred and recognized as revenue over the term of the licenses of one year. Revenue from support services is recognized when the service is performed. Revenue from Support Products, which includes software and services sales, was less than 8% of net revenues for all of the periods presented. Allowances for end customer sales returns are recorded based on historical experience and for known pending customer returns or allowances. Valuation of Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of actual cost (determined using the first in, first out method) or market (estimated net realizable value). The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate excess or obsolete inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. We review and set standard costs quarterly to approximate current actual manufacturing costs. Our manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of actual spending over actual volumes, adjusted for excess capacity. Given the cyclicality of the market, the obsolescence of technology and product lifecycles, we write down inventory based on forecasted demand and technological obsolescence. These factors are impacted by market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product introductions and changes in strategic direction and require estimates that may include uncertain elements. The estimates of future demand that we use in the valuation of inventory are the basis for our published revenue forecasts, which are also consistent with our short term manufacturing plans. If our demand forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, we could be required to write down additional inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Impairment of Long Lived Assets Including Acquisition Related Intangibles Long lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets to be held and used are reviewed for impairment if indicators of potential impairment exist. Impairment indicators are reviewed on a quarterly basis. When indicators of impairment exist and assets are held for use, we estimate future undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets. In the event such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the recorded value of the 22 assets, the assets are written down to their estimated fair values based on the expected discounted future cash flows attributable to the assets or based on appraisals. Factors affecting impairment of assets held for use include the ability of the specific assets to generate positive cash flows. When assets are removed from operations and held for sale, we estimate impairment losses as the excess of the carrying value of the assets over their fair value. Factors affecting impairment of assets held for sale include market conditions. Changes in any of these factors could necessitate impairment recognition in future periods for assets held for use or assets held for sale. Goodwill As required by SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142), goodwill is not amortized but is subject to impairment tests on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, and goodwill is written down when it is determined to be impaired. We perform an annual impairment review in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and compare the fair value of the reporting unit in which the goodwill resides to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, the goodwill of the reporting unit is potentially impaired. For purposes of impairment testing under SFAS 142, Xilinx operates as a single reporting unit. We use the quoted market price method to determine the fair value of the reporting unit. Based on the impairment review performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, there was no impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2007. Unless there are indicators of impairment, our next impairment review for goodwill will be performed and completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. To date, no impairment indicators have been identified. Accounting for Income Taxes Xilinx is a multinational corporation operating in multiple tax jurisdictions. We must determine the allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on estimates and assumptions and apply the appropriate tax rates for these jurisdictions. We undergo routine audits by taxing authorities regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Tax audits often require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments if changes to the allocation are required between jurisdictions with different tax rates. In determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. Additionally, we must estimate the amount and likelihood of potential losses arising from audits or deficiency notices issued by taxing authorities. The taxing authorities positions and our assessment can change over time resulting in a material effect on the provision for income taxes in periods when these changes occur. We must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a reserve in the form of a valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. On November 10, 2005, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 123(R) 3, Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share Based Payment Awards (FSP 123(R) 3). The Company has elected to adopt the alternative transition method provided in FSP 123(R) 3 for calculating the tax effects of stock based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R). The alternative transition method includes simplified methods to establish the beginning balance of the APIC pool related to the tax effects of employee stock based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the APIC pool and consolidated statements of cash flows of the tax effects of employee stock based compensation awards that are outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R). In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). The provisions are effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 23 Stock Based Compensation In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we adopted SFAS 123(R), which requires the measurement at fair value and recognition of compensation expense for all stock based payment awards. Total stock based compensation during fiscal 2007 related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) was $90.3 million, excluding one time expense of $2.2 million relating to prior years under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, (APB 25) and related interpretations. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of stock based awards at the date of grant requires judgment. We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of employee stock options and rights to purchase shares under the Companys 1990 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan (Employee Stock Purchase Plan), consistent with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). Option pricing models, including the Black Scholes model, also require the use of input assumptions, including expected stock price volatility, expected life, expected dividend rate and expected risk free rate of return. We use implied volatility based on traded options in the open market as we believe implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility. In determining the appropriateness of implied volatility, we considered: the volume of market activity of traded options, and determined there was sufficient market activity; the ability to reasonably match the input variables of traded options to those of options granted by the Company, such as date of grant and the exercise price, and determined the input assumptions were comparable; and the length of term of traded options used to derive implied volatility, which is generally one to two years and were extrapolated to match the expected term of the employee options granted by the Company, and determined the length of the option term was reasonable. The expected life of options granted is based on the historical exercise activity as well as the expected disposition of all options outstanding. We will continue to review our input assumptions and make changes as deemed appropriate depending on new information that becomes available. Higher volatility and expected lives result in a proportional increase to stock based compensation determined at the date of grant. The expected dividend rate and expected risk free rate of return do not have as significant an effect on the calculation of fair value. In addition, SFAS 123(R) requires us to develop an estimate of the number of stock based awards which will be forfeited due to employee turnover. Quarterly changes in the estimated forfeiture rate have an effect on reported stock based compensation, as the effect of adjusting the rate for all expense amortization after April 1, 2006 is recognized in the period the forfeiture estimate is changed. If the actual forfeiture rate is higher than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to increase the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in a decrease to the expense recognized in the financial statements. If the actual forfeiture rate is lower than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to decrease the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in an increase to the expense recognized in the financial statements. The effect of forfeiture adjustments in fiscal 2007 was insignificant. The expense we recognize in future periods could also differ significantly from the current period and or our forecasts due to adjustments in the assumed forfeiture rates. 24 Results of Operations The following table sets forth statement of income data as a percentage of net revenues for the fiscal years indicated: 2007 2006 2005 Net Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 39.0 38.1 36.6 Gross Margin 61.0 61.9 63.4 Operating Expenses: Research and development 21.1 18.9 19.6 Selling, general and administrative 20.4 18.3 19.3 Amortization of acquisition related intangibles 0.4 0.4 0.4 Litigation settlements and contingencies 0.1 0.2 0.0 Stock based compensation related to prior years 0.1 0.0 0.0 Write off of acquired in process research and development 0.0 0.2 0.5 Total operating expenses 42.1 38.0 39.8 Operating Income 18.9 23.9 23.6 Impairment loss on investments (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (0.2 ) Interest and other, net 4.6 2.6 2.0 Income Before Income Taxes 23.4 26.4 25.4 Provision for income taxes 4.4 5.9 5.5 Net Income 19.0 % 20.5 % 19.9 % Net Revenues 2007 Change 2006 Change 2005 (In thousands) Net revenues $1,842,739 7% $1,726,250 10% $1,573,233 The increase in net revenues to $1.84 billion in fiscal 2007 was due to strong demand for our New Products and growth in the Consumer and Automotive and Industrial and Other end markets. The increase in net revenues in fiscal 2006 was a result of improved market conditions as compared to fiscal 2005 and continued strong customer demand for our New Products, primarily in the Communications and Industrial and Other end markets. See Net Revenues by Product and Net Revenues by End Markets for more information on our product and end market categories. The increases in net revenues in fiscal 2007 and 2006 resulted from increased unit sales, partially offset by normal declines in average unit selling prices. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of net revenues for any of the periods presented Net Revenues by Product We classify our product offerings into four categories: New, Mainstream, Base and Support Products. These product categories, excluding Support Products, are modified on a periodic basis to better reflect advances in technology. The most recent adjustment was made on July 2, 2006, which was the beginning of our second quarter of fiscal 2007. Amounts for the prior periods presented have been reclassified to conform to the new categorization. New Products, as currently defined, include our most recent product offerings and include the Virtex 5, Virtex 4, Spartan 3, and CoolRunner II products. Mainstream Products include the Virtex II, Spartan II, CoolRunner and Virtex E products. Base Products consist of our mature product families and include the Virtex, Spartan, XC4000 and XC9500 products. Support Products make up the remainder of our product offerings and include configuration solutions (serial PROMs), software, IP cores, customer training, design services and support. 25 Net revenues by product categories for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: % of % % of % % of 2007 Total Change 2006 Total Change 2005 Total (In millions) New Products $ 416.8 23 102 $ 206.4 12 391 $ 42.1 3 Mainstream Products 1,004.2 54 (4 ) 1,049.6 61 2 1,029.0 65 Base Products 317.2 17 (14 ) 367.3 21 (8 ) 399.2 25 Support Products 104.5 6 2 102.9 6 0 102.9 7 Total Net Revenues $ 1,842.7 100 7 $ 1,726.2 100 10 $ 1,573.2 100 New Products continue to lead our revenue growth across a broad base of end markets. New Products consist primarily of our 65 nm, high performance and high density Virtex 5 families and our 90 nm products, which include the Virtex 4 families, and our high volume, low cost Spartan 3 families. These products, along with our CoolRunner II family of CPLDs, contributed to the majority of the revenue growth in New Products in fiscal 2007. We expect that sales of New Products will continue to increase over time as more customers programs go into volume production with our 65 nm and 90 nm products. The increase in net revenues from New Products for fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005 was due to increased unit sales resulting from the market acceptance of our Virtex 4 and Spartan 3 families across a broad base of applications end markets. Net revenues from Mainstream Products declined 4% in fiscal 2007 primarily due to reduced sales of some of our older products manufactured using 150 nm and 180 nm process technologies including Spartan II, Virtex E and Virtex II. The decrease in net revenues for this product category resulted from both a decline in units sold as well as in average selling prices. In fiscal 2006, Mainstream Products increased 2% because many customer designs using Virtex II Pro were going into production. The decline in Base Products in fiscal 2007 and 2006 was expected because the average selling price continues to decline as products within this category mature and approach end of life. Net revenues from Support Products increased in fiscal 2007 due to a modest increase in sales from our software products at the beginning of the fiscal year. Net revenues from Support Products were virtually unchanged in fiscal 2006. Net Revenues by End Markets Our end market revenue data is derived from our understanding of our end customers primary markets. In order to better reflect our diversification efforts and to provide more detailed end market information, we split the category formerly called Consumer, Industrial and Other into two components: Industrial and Other and Consumer and Automotive beginning with the quarter ended January 1, 2005. We will begin to show historical comparisons of the two new categories when information is available for all periods presented. Beginning with the quarter ended September 30, 2006, we changed the name of the Storage and Servers category to Data Processing to more accurately depict the type of applications found in this category. As a result, we classify our net revenues by end markets into four categories: Communications, Industrial and Other, Consumer and Automotive, and Data Processing. Since historical comparisons of the two new categories are not available for all periods presented, we combined them in the table below to show their aggregated changes over the three fiscal years. The percentage change calculation in the table below represents the year to year dollar change in each end market. Net revenues by end markets for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: % Change in % Change in 2007 Dollars 2006 Dollars 2005 (% of total net revenues) Communications 45 % (1 ) 49 % 7 50 % Consumer, Automotive, Industrial and Other 45 21 40 21 36 Data Processing 10 (10 ) 11 (10 ) 14 Total Net Revenues 100 % 7 100 % 10 100 % 26 Net revenues from Communications decreased slightly in fiscal 2007 from the prior year period. The increase in net revenues from wireless communications applications was offset by a decline in wired telecommunications applications. Wired communications applications were weak for most of the year due to an OEM inventory correction. In fiscal 2006, the Communications end market was driven by increases in both wireline and wireless applications compared to fiscal 2005. The increase in net revenues from the categories of Consumer, Automotive, Industrial and Other in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 was primarily driven by broad based strength across all applications, including defense, industrial, scientific and medical, test and measurement, consumer, automotive and audio/video broadcast. Net revenues from Data Processing declined in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 due to weakness in the storage business with selected customer programs migrating to lower cost alternatives. Net Revenues by Geography Geographic revenue information reflects the geographic location of the distributors or OEMs who purchased our products. This may differ from the geographic location of the end customers. Net revenues by geography for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: % of % % of % % of 2007 Total Change 2006 Total Change 2005 Total (In millions) North America $ 731.3 40 2 $ 714.9 41 9 $ 655.1 42 Asia Pacific 466.6 25 15 406.7 24 11 367.9 23 Europe 426.9 23 21 352.8 20 8 326.1 21 Japan 217.9 12 (13 ) 251.8 15 12 224.1 14 Total Net Revenues $ 1,842.7 100 7 $ 1,726.2 100 10 $ 1,573.2 100 Net revenues in North America increased in fiscal 2007 with the majority of the increase coming from the Industrial and Other end markets, particularly defense applications. The fiscal 2006 increase was driven primarily by strength in Communications and Industrial and Other end markets. Net revenues in Asia Pacific increased in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 due to increased sales from communications and consumer applications as well as continued outsourcing of manufacturing operations to the Asia Pacific region by some of our larger OEM customers. Net revenues in Europe increased in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 with the majority of the increase coming from the Communications and Industrial and Other end markets, particularly wireless infrastructure and test and measurement applications. Net revenues in Japan declined in fiscal 2007 primarily due to a weakened telecommunications infrastructure market during the year, after the modest growth that we experienced in the wireless telecommunications market for most of fiscal 2006. Gross Margin 2007 Change 2006 Change 2005 (In thousands) Gross Margin $1,124,096 5% $1,069,131 7% $996,949 % of Net Revenues 61.0 % 61.9 % 63.4 % Gross Margin declined from 61.9% to 61.0% during fiscal 2007 compared to the same period last year. The decline was partially due to the effect of stock based compensation expense of $10.3 million resulting from our adoption of SFAS 123(R) effective April 2, 2006. Stock based compensation expense was zero for fiscal 2006 and 2005. In addition, the impact of the production ramp of our 90 nm process, and the significant growth in the New Products category also contributed to the decline of gross margin. New Products represented 23% of net revenues in fiscal 2007 compared to 12% of net revenues in the comparable prior year period and doubled in fiscal 2007. New Products generally have lower gross margins than Mainstream and Base Products in the early product life cycle due to higher unit costs resulting from lower yields. The gross margin decline of 1.5 percentage points for fiscal 2006, compared to fiscal 2005, was due to a significant shift in product mix towards 130 nm and 90 nm 27 products, which accounted for a significant year over year growth over fiscal 2005 in sales from our New Products category. Additionally, sales from Mainstream and Base Products, which have higher gross margins than New Products, declined. Gross margin may be adversely affected in the future due to product mix shifts, competitive pricing pressure, manufacturing yield issues and wafer pricing. We expect to mitigate these risks by continuing to improve yields on our New Products and by improving manufacturing efficiency with our suppliers. Sales of inventory previously written off were not material during fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005. In order to compete effectively, we pass manufacturing cost reductions on to our customers in the form of reduced prices to the extent that we can maintain acceptable margins. Price erosion is common in the semiconductor industry, as advances in both product architecture and manufacturing process technology permit continual reductions in unit cost. We have historically been able to offset much of this revenue decline in our mature products with increased revenues from newer products. Research and Development 2007 Change 2006 Change 2005 (In thousands) Research and Development $ 388,101 19% $ 326,126 6% $ 307,448 % of Net Revenues 21 % 19 % 20 % Research and development (R&D) spending increased $62.0 million or 19% during fiscal 2007 compared to the same period last year. The increase was primarily due to stock based compensation expense of $41.6 million resulting from our adoption of SFAS 123(R) effective April 2, 2006 and expenses related to investments in resources to support new product development, particularly in the area of DSP. Stock based compensation expense was zero for fiscal 2006 and 2005. The increase in R&D expenses from fiscal 2005 to fiscal 2006 was primarily related to additional headcount to support our new product development and increased investments in new markets such as DSP and embedded processing. The increase was also attributed to the expenses associated with the tapeout of our latest Virtex 4 and Virtex 5 platform products. We plan to continue to invest in R&D efforts in a wide variety of areas such as new products, 65 nm and more advanced process development, IP cores, DSP, embedded processing and the development of new design and layout software. We will also consider acquisitions to complement our strategy for technology leadership and engineering resources in critical areas. Selling, General and Administrative 2007 Change 2006 Change 2005 (In thousands) Selling, General and Administrative $ 375,510 19% $ 316,302 4% $ 303,595 % of Net Revenues 20 % 18 % 19 % Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 19% during fiscal 2007 compared to the same period last year. This increase was attributable to stock based compensation expense of $38.3 million resulting from our adoption of SFAS 123(R) effective April 2, 2006, expenses related to increased headcount, particularly in our sales organization, and legal related costs. Stock based compensation expense was zero for fiscal 2006 and 2005. The increase in SG&A expenses in fiscal 2006 compared to the prior year period was due to salary and headcount increases and commissions associated with higher net revenues. This was offset slightly by reductions in our tax litigation and Sarbanes Oxley Section 404 compliance costs. Amortization of Acquisition Related Intangibles Amortization expense for all acquisition related intangible assets for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $8.0 million, $7.0 million and $6.7 million, respectively, primarily related to the intangible assets acquired from the RocketChips, Triscend, HDI and AccelChip acquisitions. Amortization expense for these intangible assets increased for fiscal 2007 from the same period last year due to the acquisition of AccelChip in January 2006. Amortization expense for these intangible assets increased slightly for fiscal 2006 compared to the prior year, due to the acquisition of HDI in June 2004 and AccelChip in January 2006. 28 We expect amortization of acquisition related intangibles to be approximately $6.8 million for fiscal 2008 compared with $8.0 million for fiscal 2007. Litigation Settlements and Contingencies On November 27, 2006, the Company settled the patent infringement lawsuit with Lizy K. John, under which the Company agreed to pay $6.5 million. John agreed to dismiss the patent infringement lawsuit with prejudice, granted a patent license to the Company and executed an agreement not to sue the Company under any patent owned or controlled by John for ten years. As a result of the settlement agreement, we recorded a current period charge of $2.5 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2007. The remaining balance of $4.0 million represented the value of the prepaid patent license granted as part of the settlement. This balance will be amortized over the assets remaining useful life. In the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company accrued an additional $3.2 million that represented the settlement payment for the Reptronic litigation. The Company accrued amounts that represented anticipated payments for liability for legal contingencies under the provisions of SFAS 5, Accounting for Contingencies. Stock Based Compensation Related to Prior Years On June 22, 2006, the Company received notice from the SEC advising that the SEC had commenced an informal inquiry into the Companys historical stock option granting practices. At the direction of a Special Committee of the Board of Directors, outside counsel conducted an investigation into the Companys historical option granting practices. Based on the results of the investigation and the Companys analysis of the facts, the Company took a $2.2 million charge to its earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2007. The charge is based on the difference between recorded grant dates and measurement dates in certain stock option grants between 1997 and 2006. The investigation found no evidence of fraud in the Companys practices in granting of stock options, nor any evidence of manipulation of the timing or exercise price of stock option grants. The investigation further found no issues of management integrity in the issuance of stock options. The investigation determined that in nearly all cases, stock options were issued as of pre set dates. This one time charge did not have a material effect on the Companys historical financial statements, and therefore there was no restatement necessary to the Companys financial statements for any prior periods. The income tax effect of the charge resulted in a benefit of $650 thousand, which was recorded to income tax expense. The Company assessed the implications of applicable income tax rules that may affect the Company. The tax benefit recorded is net of such potential costs. Write Off of Acquired In Process Research and Development In connection with the acquisition of AccelChip in January 2006, $4.5 million of in process research and development costs were written off. The projects identified as in process would have required additional effort in order to establish technological feasibility. These projects, as well as the HDI development projects referred to below, had identifiable technological risk factors indicating that successful completion, although expected, was not assured. If an identified project is not successfully completed, there is no alternative future use for the project, therefore, the expected future income will not be realized. The acquired in process research and development represented the fair value of technologies in the development stage that had not yet reached technological feasibility and did not have alternative future uses. The acquired in process research and development components consist of algorithmic synthesis software and IP libraries for high performance DSP design in FPGAs. We plan to sell these products to new and existing Xilinx customers and over time integrate them with our existing DSP software products. These projects were approximately 45% complete at the time of acquisition and we expected to complete all of the development projects by the end of fiscal 2009 with an estimated cost to complete of $3.5 million. As of March 31, 2007, these projects were approximately 65% complete and we still expect to complete all of the development projects by the end of fiscal 2009 with a remaining estimated cost to complete of $2.2 million. In connection with the acquisition of HDI in June 2004, $7.2 million of in process research and development costs were written off. The projects identified as in process would have required additional effort in order to establish technological feasibility. The acquired in process research and development components consist of hierarchical floorplanning and analysis software for high performance FPGA design. We currently sell these products to Xilinx customers, and over time, the products will be enhanced. At the time of the acquisition, these products 29 were approximately 67% complete. At that time, we expected to complete the development project by the end of fiscal 2005 with an estimated cost to complete of $1.1 million. The development project was completed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 at a cost that approximated the original estimate. To determine the value of HDIs and AccelChips in process research and development, the expected future cash flow attributable to the in process technology was discounted, taking into account the percentage of completion, utilization of pre existing core technology, risks related to the characteristics and applications of the technology, existing and future markets, and technological risk associated with completing the development of the technology. We expensed these non recurring charges in the period of acquisition. See Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Impairment Losses The impairment losses on investments of $2.0 million, $1.4 million and $3.1 million recognized during fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were related to non marketable equity securities in private companies. These impairment losses resulted primarily from certain investees diluting Xilinxs investment through the receipt of additional rounds of investment at a lower per share price or from the liquidation of certain investees. Interest and Other, Net 2007 Change 2006 Change 2005 (In thousands) Interest and other, net $ 85,329 86% $ 45,958 45% $ 31,603 Percentage of net revenues 5 % 3 % 2 % The increase in interest and other, net in fiscal 2007 over the prior year was due to higher yields from our investments, resulting from an increase in interest rates, and contributing to an increase of $23.5 million in interest income. During fiscal 2007, we began liquidating our investments with low interest rate yields (e.g., tax exempt municipal bonds) and investing in taxable securities such as floating rate notes, which had a higher rate of return than the tax exempt municipal bonds. The increase was also attributable to an increase of approximately $4.2 million in dividend income from the UMC investment compared to the prior year and a gain of approximately $7.0 million from the sale of a portion of the Companys UMC investment which was partially offset by portfolio capital losses. The increase in fiscal 2007 was also offset by interest expense related to the convertible debentures of $2.1 million for fiscal 2007. For fiscal 2006, the increase in interest and other, net compared to fiscal 2005, was due to higher yields resulting from an increase in short term interest rates and $4.0 million of interest income earned from an IRS prepayment relating to a recent U.S. Tax Court decision in favor of the Company. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Provision for Income Taxes 2007 Change 2006 Change 2005 (In thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 80,474 (21)% $ 102,453 17% $ 87,821 Effective tax rate 19 % 22 % 22 % The effective tax rates in all years reflected the favorable impact of foreign income at statutory rates less than the United States rate and tax credits earned. The decrease in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2007 from fiscal 2006 was related to an increase in the amount of R&D tax credits recognized and an increase in the proportion of net income earned in lower tax jurisdictions. The Company also benefited from a decrease in tax reserves in fiscal 2007 due to expiration of the federal statute of limitations for fiscal 2003. These benefits were partially offset by non deductible stock based compensation resulting from the adoption of SFAS 123(R). The Company was examined by the IRS for fiscal 1996 through 2001. All issues have been settled with the exception of issues related to Xilinx U.S.s cost sharing arrangement with Xilinx Ireland. On August 30, 2005, the Tax Court issued its opinion concerning whether the value of stock options must be included in the cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Tax Court agreed with the Company that no amount for stock options was to be included in the cost sharing agreement. Accordingly, there are no additional taxes, penalties or interest due for 30 this issue. The decision was entered by the Tax Court on May 31, 2006. On August 25, 2006, the IRS appealed the decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The Company is opposing this appeal as it believes that the Tax Court decided the case correctly. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources We have historically used a combination of cash flows from operations and equity and debt financing to support ongoing business activities, acquire or invest in critical or complementary technologies, purchase facilities and capital equipment, repurchase our common stock under our stock repurchase program, pay dividends and finance working capital. Additionally, our investments in debt securities and in UMC stock are available for future sale. Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short term and Long term Investments The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short term and long term investments at March 31, 2007 and April 1, 2006 was $1.81 billion and $1.60 billion, respectively. As of March 31, 2007, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.14 billion and working capital of $1.40 billion. Cash provided by operations of $551.6 million for fiscal 2007 was $62.2 million higher than the $489.4 million generated during fiscal 2006. Cash provided by operations resulted primarily from net income as adjusted for non cash related items, decreases in accounts receivable, inventories and prepaid expenses and an increase in income taxes payable (net of reclassifications), which were partially offset by increases in deferred income taxes and other assets, and decreases in accrued liabilities and deferred income on shipments to distributors. The decrease in prepaid expenses was primarily related to the utilization of the advance wafer purchase payment paid to Toshiba. In October 2004, we entered into an advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba under which the Company paid Toshiba a total of $100.0 million for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement, which expired in December 2006 and has since been extended until December 2007. The entire advance payment of $100.0 million is being reduced by future wafer purchases from Toshiba and any unused portion is fully refundable in December 2007 if Toshiba is not able to maintain ongoing production and quality criteria or if future wafer purchases do not exceed the total amount advanced. At March 31, 2007, the unused balance of the advance payment remaining was $40.0 million. Net cash used in investing activities was $283.8 million during fiscal 2007, as compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $242.4 million in fiscal 2006. Net cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2007 consisted of $171.4 million of net purchases of available for sale securities, $110.8 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment (see further discussion below) and $1.6 million of other investing activities. The net purchases of available for sale securities during fiscal 2007 were primarily due to the portfolio mix of our short and long term security investments. Net cash used in financing activities was $415.3 million in fiscal 2007, as compared to $397.8 million in fiscal 2006. Net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2007 consisted of $1.43 billion for the repurchase of common stock and $120.8 million for dividend payments to stockholders. These items were primarily offset by $980.0 million of net proceeds from the issuance of the 3.125% convertible debentures and $128.1 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful accounts, customer returns and distributor pricing adjustments decreased 6% from $194.2 million at the end of fiscal 2006 to $182.3 million at the end of fiscal 2007. Days sales outstanding decreased to 36 days at March 31, 2007 from 41 days at April 1, 2006. The decreases were primarily attributable to strong collections during fiscal 2007 that were partially offset by increased shipments. Inventories Inventories decreased from $201.0 million at April 1, 2006 to $174.6 million at March 31, 2007. The combined inventory days at Xilinx and distribution channel decreased to 112 days at March 31, 2007, compared to 145 days at April 1, 2006. The decreases were primarily due to improved production yields (which lower per unit inventory cost), inventory mix and greater visibility to our customers forecast and production requirements. 31 We attempt to maintain sufficient levels of inventory in various product, package and speed configurations in order to keep lead times short and to meet forecasted customer demand. Conversely, we also attempt to minimize the handling costs associated with maintaining higher inventory levels and to fully realize the opportunities for cost reductions associated with architecture and manufacturing process advancements. We continually strive to balance these two objectives to provide excellent customer response at a competitive cost. Property, Plant and Equipment During fiscal 2007, we invested $110.8 million in property, plant and equipment compared to $67.0 million in fiscal 2006. Primary investments in fiscal 2007 were for computer equipment, IT equipment, test equipment, building and leasehold improvements, and land. The increase in fiscal 2007 was also attributable to the accumulated construction costs of the building in Singapore, which is expected to be completed in June 2007. In February 2007, we purchased a parcel of land for $28.6 million near our headquarters in San Jose, for future potential growth purposes. We do not intend to build on the land at this time. We expect that property, plant and equipment expenditures will increase in the future due to the expansion of our regional headquarters in Singapore. Current Liabilities Current liabilities decreased from $345.0 million at the end of fiscal 2006 to $303.4 million at the end of fiscal 2007. The decrease was primarily due to the decreases in deferred income on shipments to distributors and other accrued liabilities, which were partially offset by the increases in accounts payable and accrued payroll and other related liabilities. The decrease in deferred income on shipments to distributors was due to lower inventory in the distributor channel as distributors attempted to adjust their inventory level to align with end customer demand and to reduce inventory carrying costs. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity decreased $956.1 million during fiscal 2007, from $2.73 billion in fiscal 2006 to $1.77 billion in fiscal 2007. The decrease in stockholders equity was a result of the $1.43 billion repurchase of our common stock, $120.8 million of dividend payments to stockholders and $12.2 million decrease in other comprehensive income primarily due to a decrease in the fair market value of the UMC investment. The decrease was partially offset by net income of $350.7 million for fiscal 2007, the proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans of $125.8 million and the effect of stock based compensation expense and associated tax benefits of $130.4 million. Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short term and Long term Investments The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short term and long term investments at April 1, 2006 and April 2, 2005 totaled $1.60 billion and 1.63 billion, respectively. As of April 1, 2006, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $984.9 million and working capital of $1.30 billion. Cash provided by operations of $489.4 million for fiscal 2006 was $213.9 million higher than the $275.5 million generated during fiscal 2005. Cash provided by operations resulted primarily from net income as adjusted for noncash related items, a decrease in accounts receivable and increases in accrued liabilities and deferred income on shipments to distributors, which were partially offset by increases in inventories and prepaid expenses and other current assets as well as other assets. The increases in prepaid expenses and other current assets as well as other assets were primarily related to the second $50.0 million advance wafer purchase payment paid to Toshiba in September 2005 and $17.8 million of investments in intellectual property and licenses. In October 2004, the Company entered into an advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba under which the Company would pay Toshiba a total of $100.0 million in two equal installments for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement. The entire advance payment of $100.0 million is being reduced by future wafer purchases from Toshiba and any unused portion is fully refundable in December 2007 if Toshiba is not able to maintain ongoing production and quality criteria or if future wafer purchases do not exceed the total amount advanced. The balance of the advance payment remaining was $72.3 million at April 1, 2006. Net cash provided by investing activities of $242.4 million during fiscal 2006 included net proceeds from the sale and maturity of available for sale securities of $353.3 million, which was partially offset by $67.0 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment, $19.5 million for the purchase of AccelChip and $24.4 million for other investing activities. 32 Net cash used in financing activities was $397.8 million in fiscal 2006 consisting of $401.6 million for the repurchase of common stock and $97.2 million for dividend payments to stockholders. These items were partially offset by $101.0 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful accounts, customer returns and distributor pricing adjustments decreased 9% from $213.5 million at the end of fiscal 2005 to $194.2 million at the end of fiscal 2006. The decrease was primarily attributable to strong collections during fiscal 2006 that were partially offset by increased shipments. The decrease was also partially attributable to the change in payment terms from 45 days to 30 days for some North American customers. Days sales outstanding decreased to 41 days at April 1, 2006 from 49 days at April 2, 2005. Inventories Inventories increased from $185.7 million at April 2, 2005 to $201.0 million at April 1, 2006. The increase was primarily due to increased inventory in our new products to support forecasted revenue growth. Combined inventory days at Xilinx and distribution were relatively flat at 145 days at April 1, 2006 compared to 146 days at April 2, 2005. Property, Plant and Equipment During fiscal 2006, we invested $67.0 million in property, plant and equipment compared to $61.4 million in fiscal 2005. Primary investments in fiscal 2006 were for computer equipment, IT equipment, test equipment and building improvements. Current Liabilities Current liabilities increased from $298.4 million at the end of fiscal 2005 to $345.0 million at the end of fiscal 2006. The increase was primarily attributable to the increase in deferred income on shipments to distributors, accrued payroll and related liabilities and other accrued liabilities. The increase in deferred income on shipments to distributors was due to higher inventory in the distributor channel as a result of overall increased sales levels. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity increased $55.4 million during fiscal 2006, principally as a result of $354.1 million in net income for fiscal 2006, the issuance of common shares and treasury stock under employee stock plans of $104.1 million, the related tax benefits associated with stock option exercises and the employee stock purchase plan of $40.6 million, $44.7 million for the reversal of reserves for cost sharing as a result of the U.S. Tax Court decision mentioned above, $17.2 million in unrealized gains on available for sale securities, net of deferred taxes, primarily from our investment in UMC stock and $853 thousand for noncash compensation expense and unrealized gains on hedging transactions. The increases were partially offset by the repurchase of common stock of $400.0 million, as adjusted for accrued and unsettled transactions, the payment of dividends to stockholders of $97.2 million, tax reconciliation and reclassification adjustments of $7.3 million and cumulative translation adjustment of $1.7 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash generated from operations is used as our primary source of liquidity and capital resources. Our investment portfolio is also available for future cash requirements as is our $250.0 million revolving credit facility entered into on April 18, 2007. See Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about the credit facility. We used $1.43 billion of cash to repurchase 55.2 million shares of our common stock in fiscal 2007 compared with $400.0 million used to repurchase 15.0 million shares in fiscal 2006. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, we received net proceeds of $980.0 million from the issuance of 3.125% convertible debentures due March 15, 2037. As part of the $1.43 billion of stock repurchases in fiscal 2007, $930.0 million of the net proceeds from the debentures was used to repurchase 34.6 million shares of our common stock. During fiscal 2007, we paid $120.8 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing $0.09 per common share for each quarter. During fiscal 2006, we paid $97.2 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing $0.07 per common share for each quarter. On February 25, 2007, our Board of Directors declared an increase in the dividend rate on our common stock from $0.09 to $0.12 per common share for the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The dividend is payable on 33 May 30, 2007. Our stock repurchase program and dividend policy could be impacted by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements relating to research and development, investments and acquisitions, legal risks, principal and interest payments on our debentures and other strategic investments. We anticipate that existing sources of liquidity and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future. However, the risk factors discussed in Item 1A and below could affect our cash positions adversely. We will continue to evaluate opportunities for investments to obtain additional wafer capacity, procurement of additional capital equipment and facilities, development of new products, and potential acquisitions of technologies or businesses that could complement our business. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at March 31, 2007 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. This table excludes amounts already recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as current liabilities at March 31, 2007. Payments Due by Period Less than More than Total 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years 5 years (In millions) Operating lease obligations (1) $ 37.5 $ 10.2 $ 16.0 $ 7.2 $ 4.1 New building commitment (2) 11.0 11.0 Inventory and other purchase obligations (3) 59.1 59.1 Electronic design automation software licenses (4) 24.1 10.4 11.6 2.1 Intellectual property license rights obligations (5) 20.0 20.0 3.125% convertible debentures principal and interest (6) 1,936.2 31.3 62.5 62.5 1,779.9 Total $ 2,087.9 $ 122.0 $ 90.1 $ 71.8 $ 1,804.0 (1) We lease some of our facilities, office buildings and land under non cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through November 2035. Rent expense, net of rental income, under all operating leases was approximately $8.7 million for fiscal 2007. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about operating leases. (2) In November 2005, Xilinx made an investment commitment of $37.0 million for a new building in Singapore, the Companys Asia Pacific regional headquarters. As of March 31, 2007, approximately $11.0 million of our investment commitment remains outstanding. The project is expected to be completed in June 2007. (3) Due to the nature of our business, we depend entirely upon subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and some test services. The lengthy subcontractor lead times require us to order the materials and services in advance, and we are obligated to pay for the materials and services when completed. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services in the next three to six months, as the products meet delivery and quality specifications. (4) As of March 31, 2007, the Company has $24.1 million of non cancelable license obligations to providers of electronic design automation software expiring at various dates through December 2010. (5) In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company committed up to $20.0 million to acquire, in the future, rights to intellectual property until July 2023. License payments will be amortized over the useful life of the intellectual property acquired. (6) In March 2007, the Company issued $1.00 billion principal amount of 3.125% debentures due March 15, 2037. The Company will pay cash interest at an annual rate of 3.125% payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning September 15, 2007. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2007, we did not have any significant off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S K. 34 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48. This interpretation contains a two step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company will be required to adopt this interpretation in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 will be recorded in retained earnings. The Company does not expect that the adoption of FIN 48 will have a significant impact on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about other recent accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.69 billion at March 31, 2007. Our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. The portfolio includes municipal bonds, floating rate notes, mortgage backed securities, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate bonds, auction rate securities and U.S. and foreign government and agency securities. In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. A hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in market interest rates compared to interest rates at March 31, 2007 and April 1, 2006 would not materially affect the fair value of our available for sale securities and the impact on our investment portfolio would have been less than $8.0 million and $10.0 million, respectively. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated and effective as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained, are deferred and included in the basis of the transaction in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. Gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the consolidated statements of income as they are incurred. We will enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our overseas operating expenses and other liabilities when deemed appropriate. As of March 31, 2007 and April 1, 2006, we had the following outstanding forward currency exchange contracts: March 31, 2007 April 1, 2006 (In thousands and U.S. dollars) Singapore dollar $16,902 $15,929 Euro 12,794 Japanese Yen 4,309 4,103 $21,211 $32,826 The net unrealized gain or loss which approximates the fair market value of the above contracts was immaterial at March 31, 2007 and April 1, 2006. The contracts expire at various dates between April and July 2007. Our investments in several wholly owned subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As these foreign currency denominated investments are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the U.S. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments. These fluctuations are recorded within stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, as our subsidiaries maintain investments denominated in other than local currencies, exchange rate fluctuations will occur. A hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change 35 in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at March 31, 2007 and April 1, 2006 would have affected the value of our investments in foreign currency denominated subsidiaries by less than $14.0 million and $12.0 million, respectively. Equity Security Price Risk Our investment in marketable equity securities at March 31, 2007 consists almost entirely of our investment in UMC, which consists of shares of common stock, the value of which is determined by the closing price on the Taiwan Stock Exchange as of the balance sheet date. This value is converted from New Taiwan dollars into U.S. dollars and included in our determination of the change in the fair value of our investment in UMC which is accounted for under the provisions of SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities (SFAS 115). The market value of our investment in UMC was approximately $67.0 million at March 31, 2007 as compared to our adjusted cost basis of approximately $62.5 million. The value of our investment in UMC would be materially impacted if there were a significant change in the market price of the UMC shares and or New Taiwan dollars. Excluding the effect of any changes in the New Taiwan dollar, a hypothetical 30% favorable or unfavorable change in UMCs stock price compared to the stock price at March 31, 2007 would have affected the value of our investment in UMC by less than $21.0 million. See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about our UMC investment. 36 
 
