Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information about our revenues from our product families. Research and Development Our research and development (R&D) activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ICs, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of IP cores of logic and the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and lowering power consumption. As a result of our R&D efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past years including the Virtex 5 and Virtex 4 series of FPGAs, and the Spartan 3 FPGA series. Additionally, we have made major enhancements to our IP core offerings and introduced new versions of our ISE software. To support embedded processing and DSP design on our platform FPGA devices, the Platform Studio tool suite and System Generator for DSP have been further enhanced. We extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 90 nm and 65 nm complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) manufacturing technology and we are the first company in the PLD industry to ship 65 nm devices. Our R&D challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost effective solutions for customers. In fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, our R&D expenses were $358.1 million, $388.1 million and $326.1 million, respectively. We believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and we are committed to continuing a significant level of R&D effort. Sales and Distribution We sell our products to OEMs and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to OEMs or subcontract manufacturers. We use dedicated global sales and marketing organizations as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. In general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing those customers in defined territories. Distributors create demand within the balance of our customer base. Distributors also provide vendor managed inventory, value added services and logistics for a wide range of our OEM customers. Whether Xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. In such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear all legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding indemnity and warranty liability. In accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a subsequent change in list prices. Revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors end customers. 7 Avnet, Inc. (Avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006. As of March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007, Avnet accounted for 83% and 86% of the Companys total accounts receivable, respectively. Resale of product through Avnet accounted for 61%, 67% and 70% of the Companys worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We also use other regional distributors throughout the world. From time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, as we deem appropriate given the level of business and their performance. We believe distributors provide a cost effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. Since PLDs are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for information about concentrations of credit risk and Note 15 for information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. Backlog As of March 29, 2008, our backlog from OEM customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $202.0 million, compared to $190.0 million as of March 31, 2007. Orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. As a result, backlogs from both OEM customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. Wafer Fabrication As a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our products. Rather, we purchase wafers from multiple foundries including United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC), Toshiba Corporation (Toshiba), Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko) and He Jian Technology (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Currently, UMC manufactures the substantial majority of our wafers. Precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by our periodic negotiations with the wafer foundries. Our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ICs and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. We continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of leading edge process technologies. In September 1995, we entered into a joint venture with UMC and other parties to construct a wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan, known as United Silicon Inc. (USIC). In January 2000, as a result of the merger of USIC into UMC, our equity position in USIC was converted into shares of UMC, which are publicly traded on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. In fiscal 2007, we sold a portion of our UMC shares and we sold the remaining shares of our UMC investment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Also see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. In fiscal 1997, we signed a wafer purchasing agreement with Seiko that was amended in fiscal 1998, 1999 and 2000. Seiko manufactures wafers for our older, more mature product lines. In October 2004, the Company entered into an advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba under which the Company paid Toshiba a total of $100.0 million in two equal installments for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement. The original agreement was extended to December 2008. The balance of the advance payment remaining was $4.5 million at March 29, 2008. Sort, Assembly and Test Wafers purchased are sorted by the foundry, independent sort subcontractors, or by Xilinx. Sorted die are assembled by subcontractors. During the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. Following assembly, the packaged units are tested by Xilinx personnel at our San Jose, California, Dublin, Ireland or Singapore facilities or by independent test subcontractors. We purchase most of our assembly and some of our testing services from Siliconware Precision Industries Ltd. in Taiwan, Amkor Technology, Inc. in Korea and the Philippines and STATS ChipPAC Ltd. in Singapore. Quality Certification Xilinx has achieved ISO 9001 quality certification in our San Jose, California, Dublin, Ireland, Longmont, Colorado, Singapore and Albuquerque locations. In addition, Xilinx achieved 8 ISO 14001, TL 9000 and TS 16949 environmental and quality certifications in the San Jose, Dublin and Singapore locations and TL 9000 and TS16949 quality certifications in the Albuquerque location. Patents and Licenses While our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. As of March 29, 2008, we held 1,785 issued United States patents relating to our products, which vary in duration. We maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, software, IC architecture, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to PLDs. We intend to vigorously protect our intellectual property. We believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights (for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) or failure to protect our trade secrets effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the future, we may incur litigation expenses to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. However, any such litigation may or may not be successful. We have acquired various software licenses that permit us to grant sublicenses to our customers for certain third party software programs licensed with our software design tools. In addition, we have licensed certain software for internal use in product design. We are also licensed under certain third party patents and have provided some third parties licenses under Company patents. Employees As of March 29, 2008, we had 3,415 employees compared to 3,353 at the end of the prior fiscal year. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. Executive Officers of the Registrant Certain information regarding the executive officers of Xilinx as of May 28, 2008 is set forth below: Name Age Position Moshe N. Gavrielov 53 President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Scott R. Hover Smoot 53 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Patrick W. Little 45 Senior Vice President, Products and Market Development Jon A. Olson 54 Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Boon C. Ooi 54 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Business Process Reengineering Victor Peng 48 Senior Vice President, Silicon Engineering Group Vincent F. Ratford 56 Senior Vice President, Solutions Development Group Frank A. Tornaghi 53 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales There are no family relationships among the executive officers of the Company or the Board of Directors. Moshe N. Gavrielov joined the Company in January 2008 as President and CEO and was appointed to the Board of Directors in February 2008. Prior to joining the Company, he served at Cadence Design Systems, Inc., an electronic design automation company, as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Verification Division from April 2005 through November 2007. Mr. Gavrielov served as CEO of Verisity Ltd., an electronic design automation company, from March 1998 to April 2005 prior to its acquisition by Cadence Design Systems, Inc. Prior to joining Verisity, Mr. Gavrielov spent nearly 10 years at LSI Corporation (formerly LSI Logic Corporation), a semiconductor manufacturer, in a variety of executive management positions, including Executive Vice President of the Products Group, Senior Vice President and General Manager of International Marketing and Sales and Senior Vice President and General Manager of LSI Logic Europe plc. Prior to joining LSI Corporation, Mr. Gavrielov held various engineering and engineering management positions at Digital Equipment Corporation and National Semiconductor Corporation. Scott R. Hover Smoot joined the Company in October 2007 as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. From November 2001 to October 2007, Mr. Hover Smoot served as Regional Counsel and Director of Legal Operations with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd., an independent semiconductor foundry. He served as Vice President and General Counsel of California Micro Devices Corporation, a provider of application specific protection devices and display electronics devices from June 1994 to November 2001. Prior to joining California Micro Devices Corporation, Mr. Hover Smoot spent over 20 years working in law firms including Berliner Cohen, Flehr, Hohbach, Test, Albritton & Herbert, and Lyon & Lyon. 9 Patrick W. Little joined the Company in March 2003 as Vice President and General Manager. He was promoted in March 2005 to Vice President of Worldwide Sales and to Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Services in December 2005. Mr. Little assumed the position of Vice President and General Manager in February 2008. He was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Products and Market Development in April 2008. From September 1999 to March 2003, he served as President and CEO of Believe, Inc., a computer graphics imaging company. Mr. Little served as Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Rendition, Inc., a graphics IC company, from March 1998 to September 1999. He was General Manager of the Audio Business Division of Diamond Multimedia Systems, Inc., and held various senior management positions at Trident Microsystems, Inc. and Opti, Inc., from 1992 to 1998. Jon A. Olson joined the Company in June 2005 as Vice President, Finance and CFO. Mr. Olson was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Finance and CFO in August 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Olson spent more than 25 years at Intel Corporation, a semiconductor chip maker, serving in a variety of positions, including Vice President, Finance and Enterprise Services, Director of Finance. Boon C. Ooi joined the Company in November 2003 as Vice President, Worldwide Operations. Mr. Ooi was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Business Process Reengineering in November 2007. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Ooi spent more than 25 years at Intel Corporation serving in a variety of positions, including Vice President of the Corporate Technology Group and Director of Operations. Victor Peng joined the Company in April 2008 as Senior Vice President, Silicon Engineering Group. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Peng served as Corporate Vice President, Graphics Products Group at Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), a provider of processing solutions, from November 2005 to April 2008. Before joining AMD, Mr. Peng served as Vice President of Silicon Engineering in the Graphics Products Group business unit at ATI Technologies, a graphics processor unit provider, from April 2005 until its acquisition by AMD. Before joining ATI Technologies, Mr. Peng served as Vice President of Engineering at TZero Technologies, a fabless semiconductor company, from September 2004 to April 2005. From November 2000 to September 2004, Mr. Peng served as Vice President of Engineering at MIPS Technologies, a semiconductor design IP company. Vincent F. Ratford joined the Company in January 2006 as Vice President of Marketing, Business Development and Silicon Architecture. Mr. Ratford was promoted to Vice President and General Manager in October 2007. He was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Solutions Development Group in April 2008. Prior to joining the Company, he served as President and CEO of AccelChip, Inc. (AccelChip), a provider of synthesis software tools for designing DSP systems, from July 2004 until its acquisition by Xilinx in January 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Ratford operated the consulting firm, DeepTech Consulting, from April 2002 to July 2004. Mr. Ratford worked at Virage Logic Corporation, a provider of semiconductor IP, as Vice President of Marketing and Business Development from July 2000 to April 2002 and as Vice President of Sales and Marketing from February 1998 to July 2000. Before joining Virage Logic, Mr. Ratford served as Chief Operating Officer of the Microtec Division of Mentor Graphics, a provider of hardware and software design solutions to semiconductor companies, from October 1995 to December 1997. Before joining the Microtec Division, he was Director of Marketing for Mentor Graphics System Design Division from May 1993 to October 1995. Frank A. Tornaghi joined the Company in February 2008 as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales in April 2008. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Tornaghi spent 22 years at LSI Corporation. Mr. Tornaghi acted as an independent consultant from April 2006 until he joined the Company. He served as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales at LSI Corporation from July 2001 to April 2006 and as Vice President, North America Sales, from May 1993 to July 2001. From 1984 until May 1993, Mr. Tornaghi held various management positions in sales at LSI Corporation. Additional Information Our Internet address is www.xilinx.com. We make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our Annual Report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. Printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without charge, upon written request directed to Xilinx, Inc., Attn: Investor Relations, 2100 Logic Drive, San Jose, CA 95124. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10 K is located at the SECs Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. The content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. 10 Additional information required by this Item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned Net Revenues Net Revenues by Geography in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and to Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. This annual report includes trademarks and service marks of Xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and registered in the United States and other countries. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Companys management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. If any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry. The down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. Weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write downs. We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Due to these and other factors, our past results are much less reliable predictors of the future than with companies in older, more stable industries. The nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers products and those products achieving market acceptance. Due to the complexity of our products, the design to production process requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. In addition, we are increasingly dependent upon turns, orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter and we have historically derived a significant portion of our quarterly revenue during the last weeks of the quarter. These factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. The difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result in inventory write downs or failure to meet customer requirements. In addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward looking revenue and earnings guidance. Global economic conditions, the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from international sales. International sales accounted for approximately 61% of our net revenues in fiscal 2008, and 60% and 59% of our net revenues in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. We also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors and our regional headquarters in Ireland and Singapore. Sales and operations outside of the U.S. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. For example, we have sales and operations in the Asia Pacific region, Japan and Europe. Past economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues, and such conditions may occur in the future. Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. While the recent movement of the Euro and Yen against the U.S. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our European and Japanese customers. Currency instability may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers ability to repay existing obligations. Increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign currency denominated costs, assets and liabilities. Furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political instability, terrorist activity or U.S. military actions could impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. 11 We are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the U.S. which could adversely affect our business. In addition to international sales and support operations, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries and have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the U.S. All of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including tax laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, other foreign governmental regulations, reduced protection for IP, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and or operating results. Additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. Adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities or design wins; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 65nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined IP cores of logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and successful deployment of electronic systems by our customers. Our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. Revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. As a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. We rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are dependent on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. During fiscal 2008, nearly all of our wafers were manufactured either in Taiwan, by UMC or in Japan, by Toshiba or Seiko. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between Xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short term agreements that do not provide for long term supply or allocation commitments. We are dependent on these foundries, especially UMC, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. We rely on UMC to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. These attributes include an ability to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields, and deliver them in a timely manner. We cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and 12 existing process technologies. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee our foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products. Any manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could disrupt our operations. We have established other sources of wafer supply for our products in an effort to secure a continued supply of wafers. However, establishing, maintaining and managing multiple foundry relationships requires the investment of management resources as well as additional costs. If we do not manage these relationships effectively, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. If greater demand for wafers produced by the foundries is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, or market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. Such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages or shortages in materials at our production and test facilities. Such increases in wafer prices or materials could adversely affect our gross margins and shortages of wafers and materials would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands. Earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. The independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our California and Singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. UMCs foundries in Taiwan and Toshibas and Seikos foundries in Japan as well as many of our operations in California are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters. Any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities. This type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. Any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. These factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to successfully compete in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. Our PLDs compete in the logic IC industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. We expect increased competition from our primary PLD competitors, Altera Corporation, Lattice Semiconductor Corporation and Actel Corporation, from the ASIC market, which has been ongoing since the inception of FPGAs, from the ASSP market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. We believe that important competitive factors in the logic industry include: product pricing; time to market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined IP cores of logic; inventory management; access to leading edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. 13 Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high volume, low cost and low power applications as well as high performance, high density applications. In addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. However, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies. Other competitors include manufacturers of: high density programmable logic products characterized by FPGA type architectures; high volume and low cost FPGAs as programmable replacements for ASICs and ASSPs; ASICs and ASSPs with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high speed, low density CPLDs; high performance DSP devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. Several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to enter the PLD market segment. To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to the market segment. We recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. Recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our IC products. We believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in the PLD market segment. We could also face competition from our licensees. In the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. Granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. Our failure to protect and defend our intellectual properly could impair our ability to compete effectively. We rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Third parties may assert infringement claims against our indemnitees or us in the future. Assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation or indemnity claims and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. Any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Considerable amounts of our common shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and debentures, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. As of March 29, 2008, we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 280.5 million shares were outstanding. In addition, 68.9 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and 1990 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan (Employee Stock Purchase Plan), and 32.1 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 3.125% convertible debentures due March 15, 2037 (debentures). The availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the conversion or repurchase of debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. We rely on information technology systems, and failure of these systems to function properly could result in business disruption. We rely in part on various information technology (IT) systems to manage our operations including financial reporting and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. Consequently, we periodically implement new, or enhance existing, operational and IT systems, procedures and controls. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and 14 report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Further, these systems are subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failure. Failure of our IT systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. If we do not successfully manage the transitions associated with our new management, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. On January 7, 2008, we announced the appointment of Moshe N. Gavrielov as our new President and CEO concurrent with the retirement of Willem P. Roelandts from these positions. Our new CEO has made organizational changes, including changes to our management team and may make future changes to our Companys structure. It is important for us to successfully manage these transitions as our failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (the Act). Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. The identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. Further, our internal control effectiveness may be impacted if we are unable to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. From time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Certain claims are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed in Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. Should the Company fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our cash, short term and long term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating and even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements and financial market conditions. Since September 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions due to the increased concerns related to the U.S. sub prime mortgage market that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non investment grade securities. As of March 29, 2008, approximately 4% of our investment portfolio consisted of AAA rated auction rate securities which are secured primarily by pools of student loans originated under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) that are guaranteed by the U. S. Department of Education. These securities experienced failed auctions in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 due to liquidity issues in the global credit markets. In a failed auction, the interest rates are reset to a maximum rate defined by the contractual terms for each security. We have collected and expect to collect all interest payable on these securities when due. As of March 29, 2008, the securities were reclassified from short term to long term investments on the consolidated balance sheet to reflect the securities final maturity dates since there can be no assurance of a successful auction in the future. The auction rate securities described above are a type of asset backed securities. All other asset backed securities comprised less than 5% of our investment portfolio as of March 29, 2008 and were all AAA rated with the exception of approximately $37.0 million of asset backed securities that were downgraded in April 2008 to AA or A rating. These asset backed securities are secured primarily by bank, finance and insurance company obligations, collateralized loan and bank obligations, mortgage backed securities with no direct sub prime exposure and credit card debt. Substantially all of the other mortgage backed securities in the investment portfolio are AAA rated, were issued by U.S. government sponsored enterprises and agencies and represented less than 9% of the portfolio as of March 29, 2008. As a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that we may incur other than temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt and equity securities is judged to be other than temporary. Furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. Please see Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about our investments. 15 Our products could have quality problems which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. We develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. Despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. These defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers. Product defects or other performance problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. Product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. Any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. In preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. In preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. Those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long lived assets, taxes, legal matters and stock based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates. If these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected. We depend on distributors, primarily Avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. We rely on distributors throughout the world to assist us in demand creation, technical support, order processing and order fulfillment. Resale of product through Avnet accounted for 61% of the Companys worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2008 and as of March 29, 2008, Avnet accounted for 83% of our accounts receivable. If a key distributor such as Avnet materially defaults on a contract or fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. Reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. The average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. We seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. However, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins. A number of factors can impact our gross margins. A number of factors, including our product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and or market segment pricing strategies and various manufacturing cost variables cause our gross margins to fluctuate. In addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because the majority of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate offices, which include the administrative, sales, customer support, marketing, R&D and manufacturing and testing groups, are located in San Jose, California. This main site consists of adjacent buildings providing 588,000 square feet of space, which we own. We also own two parcels of land totaling approximately 121 acres in South San Jose near our corporate facility. At present, we do not have any plans to develop the land. We also have a 106,000 square foot leased facility in San Jose, which we do not occupy and is presently listed for subleasing. 16 In addition, we own a 228,000 square foot facility in the metropolitan area of Dublin, Ireland, which serves as our regional headquarters in Europe. The Irish facility is primarily used for manufacturing and testing of our products, service and support for our customers in Europe, R&D and IT support. In June 2007, we completed construction of a building in Singapore, which serves as our Asia Pacific regional headquarters. We own the building but the land is subject to a 30 year lease expiring in November 2035. This building provides 222,000 square feet of usable space. The Singapore facility is primarily used for manufacturing and testing of our products, service and support for our customers in Asia Pacific/Japan, coordination and management of certain third parties in our supply chain and R&D. Excess space in the facility is leased to tenants under long term lease agreements. We also own a 130,000 square foot facility in Longmont, Colorado. The Longmont facility serves as the primary location for our software efforts in the areas of R&D, manufacturing and quality control. In addition, we also own a 200,000 square foot facility and 40 acres of land adjacent to the Longmont facility for future expansion. The facility is partially leased to tenants under long term lease agreements and partially used by the Company. We own a 45,000 square foot facility in Albuquerque, New Mexico, which is used for the development of our CoolRunner CPLD product families as well as IP cores. We lease office facilities for our engineering design centers in Austin, Texas, Grenoble, France and Edinburgh, Scotland. We also lease sales offices in various locations throughout North America, which include the metropolitan areas of Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Los Angeles, Nashua, Ottawa, Raleigh, San Diego, San Jose and Toronto as well as international sales offices located in the metropolitan areas of Beijing, Brussels, Helsinki, Hong Kong, London, Milan, Munich, Osaka, Paris, Seoul, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Stockholm, Taipei, Tel Aviv and Tokyo. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Internal Revenue Service The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audited and issued proposed adjustments to the Companys tax returns for fiscal 1996 through 2001. The Company filed petitions with the Tax Court in response to assertions by the IRS relating to fiscal 1996 through 2000. To date, all issues have been settled with the IRS in this matter except as described in the following paragraph. On August 30, 2005, the Tax Court issued its opinion concerning whether the value of stock options must be included in the cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Tax Court agreed with the Company that no amount for stock options was to be included in the cost sharing agreement, and thus, the Company had no tax, interest, or penalties due for this issue. The Tax Court entered its decision on May 31, 2006. On August 25, 2006, the IRS appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeal for the Ninth Circuit. The Company and the IRS presented oral arguments to a three judge panel of the Appeals Court on March 12, 2008. If the Company were to lose on appeal, the amount due to the IRS would be approximately $39.3 million. Of that amount, $6.2 million would be an expense to the consolidated statement of income and the remaining $33.1 million would be an adjustment to additional paid in capital. The Company would also be required to reverse $7.6 million of interest income accrued to date on prepayments to the IRS. Patent Litigation On December 28, 2007, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed by PACT XPP Technologies, AG (PACT) against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division (PACT XPP Technologies, AG. v. Xilinx, Inc. and Avnet, Inc. Case No. 2:07 CV 563). The lawsuit pertains to eight different patents and PACT seeks injunctive relief, unspecified damages and interest and attorneys fees. Neither the likelihood, nor the amount of any potential exposure to the Company is estimable at this time. On August 21, 2007, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed by Lonestar Inventions, L.P. (Lonestar) against Xilinx in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division (Lonestar Inventions, L.P. v. Xilinx, Inc. Case No. 6:07 CV 393). The lawsuit pertains to a single patent and Lonestar seeks injunctive relief, unspecified damages and interest and attorneys fees. Neither the likelihood, nor the amount of any potential exposure to the Company is estimable at this time. Other Matters From time to time, we are involved in various disputes and litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contract 17 law, tax, distribution arrangements, employee relations and other matters. Periodically, we review the status of each matter and assess its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and a range of possible losses can be estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Legal proceedings are subject to uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict. Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we continue to reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise estimates. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report. 18 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol XLNX. As of May 7, 2008, there were approximately 885 stockholders of record. Since many holders shares are listed under their brokerage firms names, the actual number of stockholders is estimated by the Company to be over 120,000. The following table sets forth the high and low closing sale prices, for the periods indicated, for our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market: Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2007 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 30.18 $ 25.65 $ 29.31 $ 22.31 Second Quarter 28.70 24.34 23.31 19.60 Third Quarter 26.97 21.16 28.25 22.14 Fourth Quarter 24.94 19.06 26.60 22.97 Dividends Declared Per Common Share The following table presents the quarterly dividends declared on our common stock for the periods indicated. Fiscal Fiscal 2008 2007 First Quarter $0.12 $0.09 Second Quarter 0.12 0.09 Third Quarter 0.12 0.09 Fourth Quarter 0.12 0.09 On February 25, 2008, our Board of Directors approved an increase to our quarterly common stock dividend for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 from $0.12 per common share to $0.14 per common share. The dividend is payable on May 28, 2008 to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 7, 2008. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table summarizes the Companys repurchase of its common stock during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for information regarding our stock repurchase plans. Approximate Total Number of Dollar Value of (In thousands, except per share amounts) Total Number Average Shares Purchased Shares that May of Shares Price Paid as Part of Publicly Yet Be Purchased Period Purchased per Share Announced Program Under the Program December 30, 2007 to February 2, 2008 3,841 $21.41 3,841 $311,629 February 3 to March 1, 2008 4,458 $21.41 4,458 $216,167 March 2 to March 29, 2008 1,040 $21.41 1,040 $193,888 Total for the Quarter 9,339 $21.41 9,339 On February 26, 2007, we announced a repurchase program of up to $1.50 billion of common stock and during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company repurchased a total of 9.3 million shares of its common stock for $200.0 million under this repurchase program. On February 25, 2008, we announced a further repurchase program of up to an additional $800.0 million of common stock. Through March 29, 2008, the Company had repurchased $1.31 billion of the $1.50 billion of common stock approved for repurchase under the February 2007 authorization. These share repurchase programs have no stated expiration date. 19 Company Stock Price Performance The following chart shows a comparison of cumulative total return for the Companys common stock, the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index (S&P 500 Index), and the Standard & Poors 500 Semiconductors Index (S&P 500 Semiconductors). The total stockholder return assumes $100 invested on March 31, 2003 in Xilinx, Inc. common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Semiconductors and assumes all dividends are reinvested. Indexed Returns Base Years Ended Period Company / Index Mar 03 Mar 04 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Xilinx, Inc. 100 161.30 125.67 110.58 113.36 106.72 S&P 500 Index 100 135.12 144.16 161.07 180.12 170.98 S&P 500 Semiconductors 100 171.55 145.41 157.49 145.40 138.10 Note: Stock price performance and indexed returns for our Common Stock are historical and are not an indicator of future price performance or future investment returns. 20 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Consolidated Statement of Income DataFive years ended March 29, 2008(In thousands, except per share amounts) 2008(1) 2007(2) 2006(3) 2005(4) 2004(5) Net revenues $ 1,841,372 $ 1,842,739 $ 1,726,250 $ 1,573,233 $ 1,397,846 Operating income (6) 424,194 347,767 412,062 372,040 327,135 Income before income taxes (6) 474,094 431,146 456,602 400,544 350,544 Provision for income taxes 100,047 80,474 102,453 87,821 47,555 Net income 374,047 350,672 354,149 312,723 302,989 Net income per common share : Basic $ 1.27 $ 1.04 $ 1.01 $ 0.90 $ 0.89 Diluted $ 1.25 $ 1.02 $ 1.00 $ 0.87 $ 0.85 Shares used in per share calculations: Basic 295,050 337,920 349,026 347,810 341,427 Diluted 298,636 343,636 355,065 358,230 354,551 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.48 $ 0.36 $ 0.28 $ 0.20 $ (1) Income before income taxes includes a loss on the sale of the Companys remaining UMC investment of $4,732 and an impairment loss on investments of $2,850. (2) Income before income taxes includes a charge of $5,934 related to an impairment of a leased facility that the Company no longer intends to occupy, a loss related to litigation settlements and contingencies of $2,500, stock based compensation related to prior years of $2,209, an impairment loss on investments of $1,950 and a gain of $7,016 from the sale of a portion of the Companys UMC investment. (3) Income before income taxes includes a loss related to litigation settlements and contingencies of $3,165, a write off of acquired in process R&D of $4,500 related to the acquisition of AccelChip and an impairment loss on investments of $1,418. (4) Income before income taxes includes a write off of acquired in process R&D of $7,198 related to the acquisition of Hier Design Inc. and impairment loss on investments of $3,099. (5) Income before income taxes includes an impairment loss on excess facilities of $3,376, a loss related to litigation settlements and contingencies of $6,400 and a write off of acquired in process R&D of $6,969 related to the acquisition of Triscend Corporation. Net income includes a $34,418 reduction in taxes associated with an IRS tax settlement. (6) The Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)) in fiscal 2007. Results for prior fiscal years do not include the effects of stock based compensation (see Notes 2 and 3 to our consolidated financial statements in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and to Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. This annual report includes trademarks and service marks of Xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and registered in the United States and other countries. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Companys management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. If any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry. The down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. Weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write downs. We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Due to these and other factors, our past results are much less reliable predictors of the future than with companies in older, more stable industries. The nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers products and those products achieving market acceptance. Due to the complexity of our products, the design to production process requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. In addition, we are increasingly dependent upon turns, orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter and we have historically derived a significant portion of our quarterly revenue during the last weeks of the quarter. These factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. The difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result in inventory write downs or failure to meet customer requirements. In addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward looking revenue and earnings guidance. Global economic conditions, the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from international sales. International sales accounted for approximately 61% of our net revenues in fiscal 2008, and 60% and 59% of our net revenues in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. We also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors and our regional headquarters in Ireland and Singapore. Sales and operations outside of the U.S. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. For example, we have sales and operations in the Asia Pacific region, Japan and Europe. Past economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues, and such conditions may occur in the future. Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. While the recent movement of the Euro and Yen against the U.S. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our European and Japanese customers. Currency instability may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers ability to repay existing obligations. Increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign currency denominated costs, assets and liabilities. Furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political instability, terrorist activity or U.S. military actions could impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. 11 We are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the U.S. which could adversely affect our business. In addition to international sales and support operations, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries and have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the U.S. All of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including tax laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, other foreign governmental regulations, reduced protection for IP, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and or operating results. Additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. Adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities or design wins; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 65nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined IP cores of logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and successful deployment of electronic systems by our customers. Our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. Revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. As a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. We rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are dependent on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. During fiscal 2008, nearly all of our wafers were manufactured either in Taiwan, by UMC or in Japan, by Toshiba or Seiko. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between Xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short term agreements that do not provide for long term supply or allocation commitments. We are dependent on these foundries, especially UMC, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. We rely on UMC to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. These attributes include an ability to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields, and deliver them in a timely manner. We cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and 12 existing process technologies. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee our foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products. Any manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could disrupt our operations. We have established other sources of wafer supply for our products in an effort to secure a continued supply of wafers. However, establishing, maintaining and managing multiple foundry relationships requires the investment of management resources as well as additional costs. If we do not manage these relationships effectively, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. If greater demand for wafers produced by the foundries is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, or market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. Such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages or shortages in materials at our production and test facilities. Such increases in wafer prices or materials could adversely affect our gross margins and shortages of wafers and materials would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands. Earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. The independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our California and Singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. UMCs foundries in Taiwan and Toshibas and Seikos foundries in Japan as well as many of our operations in California are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters. Any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities. This type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. Any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. These factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to successfully compete in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. Our PLDs compete in the logic IC industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. We expect increased competition from our primary PLD competitors, Altera Corporation, Lattice Semiconductor Corporation and Actel Corporation, from the ASIC market, which has been ongoing since the inception of FPGAs, from the ASSP market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. We believe that important competitive factors in the logic industry include: product pricing; time to market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined IP cores of logic; inventory management; access to leading edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. 13 Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high volume, low cost and low power applications as well as high performance, high density applications. In addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. However, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies. Other competitors include manufacturers of: high density programmable logic products characterized by FPGA type architectures; high volume and low cost FPGAs as programmable replacements for ASICs and ASSPs; ASICs and ASSPs with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high speed, low density CPLDs; high performance DSP devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. Several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to enter the PLD market segment. To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to the market segment. We recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. Recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our IC products. We believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in the PLD market segment. We could also face competition from our licensees. In the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. Granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. Our failure to protect and defend our intellectual properly could impair our ability to compete effectively. We rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Third parties may assert infringement claims against our indemnitees or us in the future. Assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation or indemnity claims and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. Any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Considerable amounts of our common shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and debentures, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. As of March 29, 2008, we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 280.5 million shares were outstanding. In addition, 68.9 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and 1990 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan (Employee Stock Purchase Plan), and 32.1 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 3.125% convertible debentures due March 15, 2037 (debentures). The availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the conversion or repurchase of debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. We rely on information technology systems, and failure of these systems to function properly could result in business disruption. We rely in part on various information technology (IT) systems to manage our operations including financial reporting and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. Consequently, we periodically implement new, or enhance existing, operational and IT systems, procedures and controls. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and 14 report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Further, these systems are subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failure. Failure of our IT systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. If we do not successfully manage the transitions associated with our new management, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. On January 7, 2008, we announced the appointment of Moshe N. Gavrielov as our new President and CEO concurrent with the retirement of Willem P. Roelandts from these positions. Our new CEO has made organizational changes, including changes to our management team and may make future changes to our Companys structure. It is important for us to successfully manage these transitions as our failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (the Act). Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. The identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. Further, our internal control effectiveness may be impacted if we are unable to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. From time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Certain claims are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed in Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. Should the Company fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our cash, short term and long term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating and even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements and financial market conditions. Since September 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions due to the increased concerns related to the U.S. sub prime mortgage market that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non investment grade securities. As of March 29, 2008, approximately 4% of our investment portfolio consisted of AAA rated auction rate securities which are secured primarily by pools of student loans originated under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) that are guaranteed by the U. S. Department of Education. These securities experienced failed auctions in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 due to liquidity issues in the global credit markets. In a failed auction, the interest rates are reset to a maximum rate defined by the contractual terms for each security. We have collected and expect to collect all interest payable on these securities when due. As of March 29, 2008, the securities were reclassified from short term to long term investments on the consolidated balance sheet to reflect the securities final maturity dates since there can be no assurance of a successful auction in the future. The auction rate securities described above are a type of asset backed securities. All other asset backed securities comprised less than 5% of our investment portfolio as of March 29, 2008 and were all AAA rated with the exception of approximately $37.0 million of asset backed securities that were downgraded in April 2008 to AA or A rating. These asset backed securities are secured primarily by bank, finance and insurance company obligations, collateralized loan and bank obligations, mortgage backed securities with no direct sub prime exposure and credit card debt. Substantially all of the other mortgage backed securities in the investment portfolio are AAA rated, were issued by U.S. government sponsored enterprises and agencies and represented less than 9% of the portfolio as of March 29, 2008. As a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that we may incur other than temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt and equity securities is judged to be other than temporary. Furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. Please see Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about our investments. 15 Our products could have quality problems which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. We develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. Despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. These defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers. Product defects or other performance problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. Product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. Any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. In preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. In preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. Those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long lived assets, taxes, legal matters and stock based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates. If these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected. We depend on distributors, primarily Avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. We rely on distributors throughout the world to assist us in demand creation, technical support, order processing and order fulfillment. Resale of product through Avnet accounted for 61% of the Companys worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2008 and as of March 29, 2008, Avnet accounted for 83% of our accounts receivable. If a key distributor such as Avnet materially defaults on a contract or fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. Reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. The average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. We seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. However, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins. A number of factors can impact our gross margins. A number of factors, including our product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and or market segment pricing strategies and various manufacturing cost variables cause our gross margins to fluctuate. In addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because the majority of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate offices, which include the administrative, sales, customer support, marketing, R&D and manufacturing and testing groups, are located in San Jose, California. This main site consists of adjacent buildings providing 588,000 square feet of space, which we own. We also own two parcels of land totaling approximately 121 acres in South San Jose near our corporate facility. At present, we do not have any plans to develop the land. We also have a 106,000 square foot leased facility in San Jose, which we do not occupy and is presently listed for subleasing. 16 In addition, we own a 228,000 square foot facility in the metropolitan area of Dublin, Ireland, which serves as our regional headquarters in Europe. The Irish facility is primarily used for manufacturing and testing of our products, service and support for our customers in Europe, R&D and IT support. In June 2007, we completed construction of a building in Singapore, which serves as our Asia Pacific regional headquarters. We own the building but the land is subject to a 30 year lease expiring in November 2035. This building provides 222,000 square feet of usable space. The Singapore facility is primarily used for manufacturing and testing of our products, service and support for our customers in Asia Pacific/Japan, coordination and management of certain third parties in our supply chain and R&D. Excess space in the facility is leased to tenants under long term lease agreements. We also own a 130,000 square foot facility in Longmont, Colorado. The Longmont facility serves as the primary location for our software efforts in the areas of R&D, manufacturing and quality control. In addition, we also own a 200,000 square foot facility and 40 acres of land adjacent to the Longmont facility for future expansion. The facility is partially leased to tenants under long term lease agreements and partially used by the Company. We own a 45,000 square foot facility in Albuquerque, New Mexico, which is used for the development of our CoolRunner CPLD product families as well as IP cores. We lease office facilities for our engineering design centers in Austin, Texas, Grenoble, France and Edinburgh, Scotland. We also lease sales offices in various locations throughout North America, which include the metropolitan areas of Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Los Angeles, Nashua, Ottawa, Raleigh, San Diego, San Jose and Toronto as well as international sales offices located in the metropolitan areas of Beijing, Brussels, Helsinki, Hong Kong, London, Milan, Munich, Osaka, Paris, Seoul, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Stockholm, Taipei, Tel Aviv and Tokyo. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Internal Revenue Service The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audited and issued proposed adjustments to the Companys tax returns for fiscal 1996 through 2001. The Company filed petitions with the Tax Court in response to assertions by the IRS relating to fiscal 1996 through 2000. To date, all issues have been settled with the IRS in this matter except as described in the following paragraph. On August 30, 2005, the Tax Court issued its opinion concerning whether the value of stock options must be included in the cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Tax Court agreed with the Company that no amount for stock options was to be included in the cost sharing agreement, and thus, the Company had no tax, interest, or penalties due for this issue. The Tax Court entered its decision on May 31, 2006. On August 25, 2006, the IRS appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeal for the Ninth Circuit. The Company and the IRS presented oral arguments to a three judge panel of the Appeals Court on March 12, 2008. If the Company were to lose on appeal, the amount due to the IRS would be approximately $39.3 million. Of that amount, $6.2 million would be an expense to the consolidated statement of income and the remaining $33.1 million would be an adjustment to additional paid in capital. The Company would also be required to reverse $7.6 million of interest income accrued to date on prepayments to the IRS. Patent Litigation On December 28, 2007, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed by PACT XPP Technologies, AG (PACT) against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division (PACT XPP Technologies, AG. v. Xilinx, Inc. and Avnet, Inc. Case No. 2:07 CV 563). The lawsuit pertains to eight different patents and PACT seeks injunctive relief, unspecified damages and interest and attorneys fees. Neither the likelihood, nor the amount of any potential exposure to the Company is estimable at this time. On August 21, 2007, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed by Lonestar Inventions, L.P. (Lonestar) against Xilinx in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division (Lonestar Inventions, L.P. v. Xilinx, Inc. Case No. 6:07 CV 393). The lawsuit pertains to a single patent and Lonestar seeks injunctive relief, unspecified damages and interest and attorneys fees. Neither the likelihood, nor the amount of any potential exposure to the Company is estimable at this time. Other Matters From time to time, we are involved in various disputes and litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contract 17 law, tax, distribution arrangements, employee relations and other matters. Periodically, we review the status of each matter and assess its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and a range of possible losses can be estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Legal proceedings are subject to uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict. Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we continue to reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise estimates. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report. 18 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol XLNX. As of May 7, 2008, there were approximately 885 stockholders of record. Since many holders shares are listed under their brokerage firms names, the actual number of stockholders is estimated by the Company to be over 120,000. The following table sets forth the high and low closing sale prices, for the periods indicated, for our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market: Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2007 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 30.18 $ 25.65 $ 29.31 $ 22.31 Second Quarter 28.70 24.34 23.31 19.60 Third Quarter 26.97 21.16 28.25 22.14 Fourth Quarter 24.94 19.06 26.60 22.97 Dividends Declared Per Common Share The following table presents the quarterly dividends declared on our common stock for the periods indicated. Fiscal Fiscal 2008 2007 First Quarter $0.12 $0.09 Second Quarter 0.12 0.09 Third Quarter 0.12 0.09 Fourth Quarter 0.12 0.09 On February 25, 2008, our Board of Directors approved an increase to our quarterly common stock dividend for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 from $0.12 per common share to $0.14 per common share. The dividend is payable on May 28, 2008 to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 7, 2008. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table summarizes the Companys repurchase of its common stock during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for information regarding our stock repurchase plans. Approximate Total Number of Dollar Value of (In thousands, except per share amounts) Total Number Average Shares Purchased Shares that May of Shares Price Paid as Part of Publicly Yet Be Purchased Period Purchased per Share Announced Program Under the Program December 30, 2007 to February 2, 2008 3,841 $21.41 3,841 $311,629 February 3 to March 1, 2008 4,458 $21.41 4,458 $216,167 March 2 to March 29, 2008 1,040 $21.41 1,040 $193,888 Total for the Quarter 9,339 $21.41 9,339 On February 26, 2007, we announced a repurchase program of up to $1.50 billion of common stock and during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company repurchased a total of 9.3 million shares of its common stock for $200.0 million under this repurchase program. On February 25, 2008, we announced a further repurchase program of up to an additional $800.0 million of common stock. Through March 29, 2008, the Company had repurchased $1.31 billion of the $1.50 billion of common stock approved for repurchase under the February 2007 authorization. These share repurchase programs have no stated expiration date. 19 Company Stock Price Performance The following chart shows a comparison of cumulative total return for the Companys common stock, the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index (S&P 500 Index), and the Standard & Poors 500 Semiconductors Index (S&P 500 Semiconductors). The total stockholder return assumes $100 invested on March 31, 2003 in Xilinx, Inc. common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Semiconductors and assumes all dividends are reinvested. Indexed Returns Base Years Ended Period Company / Index Mar 03 Mar 04 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Xilinx, Inc. 100 161.30 125.67 110.58 113.36 106.72 S&P 500 Index 100 135.12 144.16 161.07 180.12 170.98 S&P 500 Semiconductors 100 171.55 145.41 157.49 145.40 138.10 Note: Stock price performance and indexed returns for our Common Stock are historical and are not an indicator of future price performance or future investment returns. 20 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Consolidated Statement of Income DataFive years ended March 29, 2008(In thousands, except per share amounts) 2008(1) 2007(2) 2006(3) 2005(4) 2004(5) Net revenues $ 1,841,372 $ 1,842,739 $ 1,726,250 $ 1,573,233 $ 1,397,846 Operating income (6) 424,194 347,767 412,062 372,040 327,135 Income before income taxes (6) 474,094 431,146 456,602 400,544 350,544 Provision for income taxes 100,047 80,474 102,453 87,821 47,555 Net income 374,047 350,672 354,149 312,723 302,989 Net income per common share : Basic $ 1.27 $ 1.04 $ 1.01 $ 0.90 $ 0.89 Diluted $ 1.25 $ 1.02 $ 1.00 $ 0.87 $ 0.85 Shares used in per share calculations: Basic 295,050 337,920 349,026 347,810 341,427 Diluted 298,636 343,636 355,065 358,230 354,551 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.48 $ 0.36 $ 0.28 $ 0.20 $ (1) Income before income taxes includes a loss on the sale of the Companys remaining UMC investment of $4,732 and an impairment loss on investments of $2,850. (2) Income before income taxes includes a charge of $5,934 related to an impairment of a leased facility that the Company no longer intends to occupy, a loss related to litigation settlements and contingencies of $2,500, stock based compensation related to prior years of $2,209, an impairment loss on investments of $1,950 and a gain of $7,016 from the sale of a portion of the Companys UMC investment. (3) Income before income taxes includes a loss related to litigation settlements and contingencies of $3,165, a write off of acquired in process R&D of $4,500 related to the acquisition of AccelChip and an impairment loss on investments of $1,418. (4) Income before income taxes includes a write off of acquired in process R&D of $7,198 related to the acquisition of Hier Design Inc. and impairment loss on investments of $3,099. (5) Income before income taxes includes an impairment loss on excess facilities of $3,376, a loss related to litigation settlements and contingencies of $6,400 and a write off of acquired in process R&D of $6,969 related to the acquisition of Triscend Corporation. Net income includes a $34,418 reduction in taxes associated with an IRS tax settlement. (6) The Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)) in fiscal 2007. Results for prior fiscal years do not include the effects of stock based compensation (see Notes 2 and 3 to our consolidated financial statements in 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Cautionary Statement The statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis that are forward looking, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, involve numerous risks and uncertainties and are based on current expectations. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements for many reasons, including those risks discussed under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this document. Often, forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words, such as may, will, could, should, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. We disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward looking statement provided in this Managements Discussion and Analysis for any reason. Nature of Operations We design, develop and market complete programmable logic solutions, including advanced ICs, software design tools, predefined system functions delivered as IP cores, design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. Our PLDs include FPGAs and CPLDs. These devices are standard products that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. Our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time to market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, test and measurement, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. We sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to OEMs by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The SEC has defined critical accounting policies as those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, our critical accounting policies include: valuation of marketable and non marketable securities, which impacts losses on debt and equity securities when we record impairments; revenue recognition, which impacts the recording of revenues; and valuation of inventories, which impacts cost of revenues and gross margin. Our critical accounting policies also include: the assessment of impairment of long lived assets including acquisition related intangibles, which impacts their valuation; the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill, which impacts goodwill impairment; accounting for income taxes, which impacts the provision or benefit recognized for income taxes, as well as the valuation of deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet, and valuation and recognition of stock based compensation, which impacts gross margin, R&D expenses, and selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. Valuation of Marketable and Non marketable Securities The Companys short term and long term investments include marketable debt and equity securities and non marketable equity securities. At March 29, 2008, the Company had marketable debt securities with a fair value of $1.50 billion, non marketable equity securities in private companies of $22.6 million (adjusted cost) and a marketable equity security with a fair value of $822 thousand. The fair values for marketable debt and equity securities are determined by independent pricing sources that value the securities based on quoted market prices and pricing models except for failed auction rate securities for which the Company determined their fair value at March 29, 2008 based on internal analyses. In determining if and when a decline in market value below adjusted cost of marketable debt and equity securities is other than temporary, the Company evaluates on an ongoing basis the market conditions, trends of earnings, financial condition and other key measures for our investments. We assess other than temporary impairment of debt and equity securities in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 115 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and 22 Its Application to Certain Investments. We have not recorded any other than temporary impairment for marketable debt and equity securities for fiscal 2008 or 2007. In determining whether a decline in value of non marketable equity investments in private companies is other than temporary, the assessment is made by considering available evidence including the general market conditions in the investees industry, the investees product development status, the investees ability to meet business milestones and the financial condition and near term prospects of the individual investee, including the rate at which the investee is using its cash and the investees need for possible additional funding at a lower valuation. When a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, the Company recognizes an impairment loss in the current periods operating results to the extent of the decline. Revenue Recognition Sales to distributors are made under agreements providing distributor price adjustments and rights of return under certain circumstances. Revenue and costs relating to distributor sales are deferred until products are sold by the distributors to the distributors end customers. For fiscal 2008, approximately 83% of our net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to OEMs or their subcontract manufacturers. Revenue recognition depends on notification from the distributor that product has been sold to the distributors end customer. Also reported by the distributor are product resale price, quantity and end customer shipment information, as well as inventory on hand. Reported distributor inventory on hand is reconciled to deferred revenue balances monthly. We maintain system controls to validate distributor data and to verify that the reported information is accurate. Deferred income on shipments to distributors reflects the effects of distributor price adjustments and the amount of gross margin expected to be realized when distributors sell through product purchased from the Company. Accounts receivable from distributors are recognized and inventory is relieved when title to inventories transfers, typically upon shipment from Xilinx at which point we have a legally enforceable right to collection under normal payment terms. Revenue from sales to our direct customers is recognized upon shipment provided that persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, the price is fixed, title has transferred, collection of resulting receivables is reasonably assured, and there are no customer acceptance requirements and no remaining significant obligations. For each of the periods presented, there were no formal acceptance provisions with our direct customers. Revenue from software licenses is deferred and recognized as revenue over the term of the licenses of one year. Revenue from support services is recognized when the service is performed. Revenue from Support Products, which includes software and services sales, was less than 7% of net revenues for all of the periods presented. Allowances for end customer sales returns are recorded based on historical experience and for known pending customer returns or allowances. Valuation of Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of actual cost (determined using the first in, first out method) or market (estimated net realizable value). The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate excess or obsolete inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. We review and set standard costs quarterly to approximate current actual manufacturing costs. Our manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of actual spending over actual volumes, adjusted for excess capacity. Given the cyclicality of the market, the obsolescence of technology and product lifecycles, we write down inventory based on forecasted demand and technological obsolescence. These factors are impacted by market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product introductions and changes in strategic direction and require estimates that may include uncertain elements. The estimates of future demand that we use in the valuation of inventory are the basis for our published revenue forecasts, which are also consistent with our short term manufacturing plans. If our demand forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, we could be required to write down additional inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Impairment of Long Lived Assets Including Acquisition Related Intangibles Long lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets to be held and used are reviewed for impairment if indicators of potential impairment exist. Impairment indicators are reviewed on a quarterly basis. When indicators of impairment exist and assets are held for use, we estimate future undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets. In the event such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the recorded value of the assets, the assets are written down to their estimated fair values based on the expected discounted future cash flows attributable to the assets or based on appraisals. Factors affecting impairment of assets held for use include the ability of the specific assets to generate positive cash flows. 23 When assets are removed from operations and held for sale, we estimate impairment losses as the excess of the carrying value of the assets over their fair value. Factors affecting impairment of assets held for sale include market conditions. Changes in any of these factors could necessitate impairment recognition in future periods for assets held for use or assets held for sale. Goodwill As required by SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142), goodwill is not amortized but is subject to impairment tests on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, and goodwill is written down when it is determined to be impaired. We perform an annual impairment review in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and compare the fair value of the reporting unit in which the goodwill resides to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, the goodwill of the reporting unit is potentially impaired. For purposes of impairment testing under SFAS 142, Xilinx operates as a single reporting unit. We use the quoted market price method to determine the fair value of the reporting unit. Based on the impairment review performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, there was no impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2008. Unless there are indicators of impairment, our next impairment review for goodwill will be performed and completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. To date, no impairment indicators have been identified. Accounting for Income Taxes Xilinx is a multinational corporation operating in multiple tax jurisdictions. We must determine the allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on estimates and assumptions and apply the appropriate tax rates for these jurisdictions. We undergo routine audits by taxing authorities regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Tax audits often require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments if changes to the allocation are required between jurisdictions with different tax rates. In determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. Additionally, we must estimate the amount and likelihood of potential losses arising from audits or deficiency notices issued by taxing authorities. The taxing authorities positions and our assessment can change over time resulting in a material effect on the provision for income taxes in periods when these changes occur. We must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a reserve in the form of a valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. The Company has elected to adopt the alternative transition method provided in FSP No. FAS 123(R) 3, Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share Based Payment Awards for calculating the tax effects of stock based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R). The alternative transition method includes simplified methods to establish the beginning balance of the APIC pool related to the tax effects of employee stock based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the APIC pool and consolidated statements of cash flows of the tax effects of employee stock based compensation awards that are outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R). In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). The provisions were effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. See Notes 2 and 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Stock Based Compensation In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we adopted SFAS 123(R), which requires the measurement at fair value and recognition of compensation expense for all stock based payment awards. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of stock based awards at the date of grant requires judgment. We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of employee stock options and rights to purchase shares under the Companys Employee Stock Purchase Plan, consistent with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). Option pricing models, including the Black Scholes model, also require the use of input assumptions, including expected stock price volatility, expected life, expected dividend rate, expected forfeiture rate and expected risk free rate of return. We use implied volatility based on traded options in the open market as we believe implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility. In determining the appropriateness of implied volatility, we considered: the volume of market activity of traded options, and determined there was sufficient market activity; the ability to reasonably match the input variables of traded options to those of options granted by the Company, such as date of grant 24 and the exercise price, and determined the input assumptions were comparable; and the length of term of traded options used to derive implied volatility, which is generally one to two years and which was extrapolated to match the expected term of the employee options granted by the Company, and determined the length of the option term was reasonable. The expected life of options granted is based on the historical exercise activity as well as the expected disposition of all options outstanding. We will continue to review our input assumptions and make changes as deemed appropriate depending on new information that becomes available. Higher volatility and expected lives result in a proportional increase to stock based compensation determined at the date of grant. The expected dividend rate and expected risk free rate of return do not have as significant an effect on the calculation of fair value. In addition, SFAS 123(R) requires us to develop an estimate of the number of stock based awards which will be forfeited due to employee turnover. Quarterly changes in the estimated forfeiture rate have an effect on reported stock based compensation, as the effect of adjusting the rate for all expense amortization after April 1, 2006 is recognized in the period the forfeiture estimate is changed. If the actual forfeiture rate is higher than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to increase the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in a decrease to the expense recognized in the financial statements. If the actual forfeiture rate is lower than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to decrease the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in an increase to the expense recognized in the financial statements. The effect of forfeiture adjustments in fiscal 2008 and 2007 was insignificant. The expense we recognize in future periods could also differ significantly from the current period and or our forecasts due to adjustments in the assumed forfeiture rates. Results of Operations The following table sets forth statement of income data as a percentage of net revenues for the fiscal years indicated: 2008 2007 2006 Net Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 37.3 39.0 38.1 Gross Margin 62.7 61.0 61.9 Operating Expenses: Research and development 19.4 21.1 18.9 Selling, general and administrative 19.9 20.4 18.3 Amortization of acquisition related intangibles 0.4 0.4 0.4 Litigation settlements and contingencies 0.0 0.1 0.2 Stock based compensation related to prior years 0.0 0.1 0.0 Write off of acquired in process research and development 0.0 0.0 0.2 Total operating expenses 39.7 42.1 38.0 Operating Income 23.0 18.9 23.9 Impairment loss on investments (0.2 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Interest and other, net 2.9 4.6 2.6 Income Before Income Taxes 25.7 23.4 26.4 Provision for income taxes 5.4 4.4 5.9 Net Income 20.3 % 19.0 % 20.5 % Net Revenues (In millions) 2008 Change 2007 Change 2006 Net revenues $1,841.4 0% $1,842.7 7% $1,726.2 The relatively flat net revenues in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 was driven by strong customer demand for our New Products which was offset by decreased demand for our Mainstream and Base Products, particularly in the Communications and Data Processing end markets. Increased total unit sales during fiscal 2008 compared to the comparable prior year period were offset by declines in average unit selling prices, which also contributed to the flat net revenues in fiscal 2008. The increase in net revenues from $1.73 billion in fiscal 2006 to $1.84 billion in fiscal 2007 was due to strong demand for our New Products and growth in the Consumer and Automotive and Industrial and Other end markets. The increase in net revenues in fiscal 2007 resulted from increased unit sales, partially offset by normal declines 25 in average unit selling prices. See Net Revenues by Product and Net Revenues by End Markets for more information on our product and end market categories. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of net revenues for any of the periods presented Net Revenues by Product We classify our product offerings into four categories: New, Mainstream, Base and Support Products. These product categories, excluding Support Products, are modified on a periodic basis to better reflect advances in technology. The most recent adjustment was made on July 2, 2006, which was the beginning of our second quarter of fiscal 2007. Amounts for the prior periods presented have been reclassified to conform to the new categorization. New Products, as currently defined, include our most recent product offerings and include the Virtex 5, Virtex 4, Spartan 3, and CoolRunner II product families. Mainstream Products include the Virtex II, Spartan II, CoolRunner and Virtex E product families. Base Products consist of our mature product families and include the Virtex, Spartan, XC4000 and XC9500 products. Support Products make up the remainder of our product offerings and include configuration solutions (serial PROMs), software, IP cores, customer training, design services and support. Net revenues by product categories for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: % of % % of % % of (In millions) 2008 Total Change 2007 Total Change 2006 Total New Products $ 604.2 33 45 $ 416.8 23 102 $ 206.4 12 Mainstream Products 849.8 46 (15 ) 1,004.2 54 (4 ) 1,049.6 61 Base Products 277.7 15 (12 ) 317.2 17 (14 ) 367.3 21 Support Products 109.7 6 5 104.5 6 2 102.9 6 Total net revenues $ 1,841.4 100 0 $ 1,842.7 100 7 $ 1,726.2 100 Net revenues from New Products increased significantly in fiscal 2008 and now represent one third of our total net revenues. New Products consist primarily of our 65 nm, high performance and high density Virtex 5 family and our 90 nm products, which include the Virtex 4 family, and our high volume, low cost Spartan 3 families. These products, along with our CoolRunner II family of CPLDs, contributed to the majority of the revenue growth in New Products in fiscal 2008 and 2007. We expect sales of New Products to continue to increase over time as more customers programs go into volume production with our 65 nm and 90 nm products. Net revenues from Mainstream Products declined in fiscal 2008 and 2007 primarily due to reduced sales from older products manufactured on 150 nm and 180 nm process technologies including Spartan II, Virtex E and Virtex II. The decrease in net revenues for this product category resulted from both a decline in units sold as well as in average selling prices. The decline in net revenues from Base Products in fiscal 2008 and 2007 was expected because the average selling price continued to decline as these products matured and approached end of life. Net revenues from Support Products increased in fiscal 2008 and 2007 due to modest increases in sales from our software products. Net Revenues by End Markets Our end market revenue data is derived from our understanding of our end customers primary markets. We classify our net revenues by end markets into four categories: Communications, Industrial and Other, Consumer and Automotive, and Data Processing. The percentage change calculation in the table below represents the year to year dollar change in each end market. Net revenues by end markets for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: % Change % Change (% of total net revenues) 2008 in Dollars 2007 in Dollars 2006 Communications 43 % (5 ) 45 % (1 ) 49 % Industrial and Other 32 11 29 22 25 Consumer and Automotive 17 4 16 18 14 Data Processing 8 (14 ) 10 (10 ) 12 Total net revenues 100 % 0 100 % 7 100 % 26 Net revenues from Communications, our largest end market, decreased in fiscal 2008 compared with the prior year period due to a decline in sales in wireless communications applications, much of which was driven by merger and consolidation activity in that market. In fiscal 2007, the Communications end market decreased slightly compared to fiscal 2006 due primarily to a decline in wired telecommunications applications. Net revenues from the Industrial and Other end market increased in fiscal 2008 and 2007 compared with the prior year periods. The increases were driven by broad based strength across all applications including defense, industrial, scientific and medical and test and measurement. Net revenues from the Consumer and Automotive end market increased in fiscal 2008 compared with the prior year period primarily due to strength in automotive applications. In fiscal 2007, the increase in net revenues from the Consumer and Automotive end market was driven by broad based strength across all applications, including consumer, automotive and audio, video and broadcast. The decline in net revenues from the Data Processing end market in fiscal 2008 was driven by decreases in sales from storage, computing and data processing applications. In fiscal 2007, net revenues from the Data Processing end market declined due primarily to weakness in the storage business. Net Revenues by Geography Geographic revenue information reflects the geographic location of the distributors or OEMs who purchased our products. This may differ from the geographic location of the end customers. Net revenues by geography for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: % of % % of % % of (In millions) 2008 Total Change 2007 Total Change 2006 Total North America $ 717.8 39 (2 ) $ 731.3 40 2 $ 714.9 41 Asia Pacific 526.3 29 13 466.6 25 15 406.7 24 Europe 407.2 22 (5 ) 426.9 23 21 352.8 20 Japan 190.1 10 (13 ) 217.9 12 (13 ) 251.8 15 Total net revenues $ 1,841.4 100 0 $ 1,842.7 100 7 $ 1,726.2 100 Net revenues in North America decreased in fiscal 2008 primarily due to a decline in sales from wireless communications as well as data processing applications. The fiscal 2007 increase was driven primarily by strength in the Industrial and Other end market, particularly defense applications. Net revenues in Asia Pacific grew double digits in fiscal 2008 due to broad based end market strength, with particular strength coming from customers in the Communications and Industrial and Other end markets. Additionally, Asia Pacific sales continued to benefit from outsourcing of manufacturing operations by large U.S. and European based customers to the Asia Pacific region. The fiscal 2007 increase was due to increased sales from communications and consumer applications as well as continued outsourcing of manufacturing operations to the Asia Pacific region by some of our larger OEM customers. Net revenues in Europe decreased in fiscal 2008 due primarily to lower sales from wireless communications applications. Net revenues in fiscal 2007 increased primarily due to strength from communications and industrial applications, particularly wireless infrastructure and industrial, scientific and medical applications. Net revenues in Japan declined in fiscal 2008 due to broad based weakness across all end market categories. The fiscal 2007 decline was primarily due to a weakened telecommunications infrastructure market during the year. Gross Margin (In millions) 2008 Change 2007 Change 2006 Gross margin $1,154.4 3% $1,124.1 5% $1,069.1 Percentage of net revenues 62.7% 61.0% 61.9% The increase in the gross margin percentage in fiscal 2008 from the comparable prior year period was driven primarily by product cost reductions and improved operational efficiency. This favorable impact was partially offset by the product mix effect of New Product growth year over year. New Products generally have lower gross margins than Mainstream and 27 Base Products in the early product life cycle due to higher unit costs resulting from lower yields. As a percentage of total net revenues, New Product sales increased by approximately 10% from fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2008. The decline in the gross margin percentage in fiscal 2007 from the comparable prior year period was partially due to the effect of stock based compensation expense of $10.3 million resulting from our adoption of SFAS 123(R) effective April 2, 2006. Stock based compensation expense was zero for fiscal 2006. In addition, the impact of the production ramp of our 90 nm process and the significant growth in the New Products category also contributed to the decline of gross margin. New Products represented 23% of net revenues in fiscal 2007 compared to 12% of net revenues in the comparable prior year period. Gross margin may be adversely affected in the future due to mix shifts, competitive pricing pressure, manufacturing yield issues and wafer pricing. We expect to mitigate these risks by continuing to improve yields on our New Products and by improving manufacturing efficiency with our suppliers. Sales of inventory previously written off were not material during fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006. In order to compete effectively, we pass manufacturing cost reductions on to our customers in the form of reduced prices to the extent that we can maintain acceptable margins. Price erosion is common in the semiconductor industry, as advances in both product architecture and manufacturing process technology permit continual reductions in unit cost. We have historically been able to offset much of this revenue decline in our mature products with increased revenues from newer products. Research and Development (In millions) 2008 Change 2007 Change 2006 Research and development $358.1 (8%) $388.1 19% $326.1 Percentage of net revenues 19% 21% 19% R&D spending decreased $30.0 million or 8% during fiscal 2008 compared to the same period last year. The decrease was primarily due to reduced stock based compensation expense and lower mask and wafer spending, coupled with lower cost related to our R&D center in India. R&D spending increased $62.0 million or 19% during fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006. The increase was primarily related to stock based compensation expense of $41.6 million resulting from our adoption of SFAS 123(R) effective April 2, 2006 and expenses related to investments in resources to support new product development, particularly in the area of DSP. Stock based compensation expense was zero for fiscal 2006. We plan to continue to selectively invest in R&D efforts in areas such as new products and more advanced process development, IP cores and the development of new design and layout software. We will also consider acquisitions to complement our strategy for technology leadership and engineering resources in critical areas. Selling, General and Administrative (In millions) 2008 Change 2007 Change 2006 Selling, general and administrative $365.3 (3%) $375.5 19% $316.3 Percentage of net revenues 20% 20% 18% SG&A expenses decreased 3% during fiscal 2008 compared to the same period last year. The decrease was attributable to lower stock based compensation expense, reduced discretionary spending and lower sales commissions. The reductions in discretionary spending included consulting, travel and marketing expenses. SG&A expenses increased 19% during fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006. This increase was attributable to stock based compensation expense of $38.3 million resulting from our adoption of SFAS 123(R) effective April 2, 2006, expenses related to increased headcount, particularly in our sales organization, and legal related costs. Stock based compensation expense was zero for fiscal 2006. Amortization of Acquisition Related Intangibles (In millions) 2008 Change 2007 Change 2006 Amortization of acquisition related intangibles $6.8 (15%) $8.0 15% $7.0 28 Amortization expense was related to the intangible assets acquired from prior acquisitions. Amortization expense for these intangible assets decreased for fiscal 2008 from the same period last year, due to the complete amortization of certain intangible assets in fiscal 2007. Amortization expense for these intangible assets increased for fiscal 2007 from fiscal 2006 due to the acquisition of AccelChip in January 2006. We expect amortization of acquisition related intangibles to be approximately $5.3 million for fiscal 2009 compared with $6.8 million for fiscal 2008. Litigation Settlements and Contingencies On November 27, 2006, the Company settled a patent infringement lawsuit under which the Company agreed to pay $6.5 million. The plaintiff agreed to dismiss the patent infringement lawsuit with prejudice, granted a patent license to the Company and executed an agreement not to sue the Company under any patent owned or controlled by the plaintiff for ten years. As a result of the settlement agreement, we recorded a current period charge of $2.5 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2007. The remaining balance of $4.0 million represented the value of the prepaid patent license granted as part of the settlement. This balance is being amortized over the patents remaining useful life. In the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company accrued an additional $3.2 million that represented the settlement payment for litigation related to an agreement with a sales representative. The Company accrued amounts that represented anticipated payments for liability for legal contingencies under the provisions of SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. Stock Based Compensation (In millions) 2008 Change 2007 Change 2006 Stock based compensation included in: Cost of revenues $ 7.6 (26% ) $ 10.4 $ Research and development 31.4 (24% ) 41.6 Selling, general and administrative 27.4 (29% ) 38.3 Stock based compensation related to prior years 2.2 $ 66.4 (28% ) $ 92.5 $ We adopted SFAS 123(R) under the modified prospective transition method, effective beginning in fiscal 2007. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we accounted for stock based compensation under Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," (APB 25) and related interpretations, using the intrinsic value method and, as such, generally recognized no compensation cost for employee stock options. The 28% decrease in stock based compensation expense for fiscal 2008 was due to a decrease in the number of shares granted, declining weighted average fair values of stock awards vesting and lower expense related to a methodology change from accelerated to straight line amortization in connection with the adoption of SFAS 123(R). Total stock based compensation expense during fiscal 2007 related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) was $90.3 million, excluding one time expense of $2.2 million relating to prior years under the provisions of APB 25. In June 2006, stockholder derivative complaints were filed against the Company concerning the Companys historical option granting practices and the SEC initiated an informal inquiry on the matter. An investigation of the Companys historical stock option granting practices was conducted by outside counsel and no evidence of fraud, management misconduct or manipulation in the timing or exercise price of stock option grants was found. The investigation determined that in nearly all cases, stock options were issued as of pre set dates; however, there were some minor differences between the recorded grant dates and measurement dates for certain grants made between 1997 and 2006. As a result, a $2.2 million charge was taken to the Companys earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Subsequently the SEC informal inquiry was terminated and no enforcement action was recommended and the stockholder derivative complaints were dismissed. The income tax effect of the charge resulted in a benefit of $650 thousand, which was recorded to income tax expense. The Company assessed the implications of applicable income tax rules that may affect the Company. The tax benefit recorded is net of such potential costs. Write Off of Acquired In Process Research and Development In connection with the acquisition of AccelChip in January 2006, $4.5 million of in process R&D costs were written off. The projects identified as in process would have required additional effort in order to establish technological feasibility. These projects had identifiable technological risk factors indicating that successful completion, although expected, was not assured. If an identified project is not successfully completed, there is no alternative future use for the project, therefore, 29 the expected future income will not be realized. The acquired in process R&D represented the fair value of technologies in the development stage that had not yet reached technological feasibility and did not have alternative future uses. The acquired in process R&D components consist of algorithmic synthesis software and IP libraries for high performance DSP design in FPGAs. We plan to sell these products to new and existing Xilinx customers and over time integrate them with our existing DSP software products. These projects were approximately 45% complete at the time of acquisition and we expected to complete all of the development projects by the end of fiscal 2009 with an estimated cost to complete of $3.5 million. As of March 29, 2008, these projects were approximately 85% complete and we still expect to complete all of the development projects by the end of fiscal 2009 with a remaining estimated cost to complete of $1.0 million. To determine the value of AccelChips in process R&D, the expected future cash flow attributable to the in process technology was discounted, taking into account the percentage of completion, utilization of pre existing core technology, risks related to the characteristics and applications of the technology, existing and future markets, and technological risk associated with completing the development of the technology. We expensed these non recurring charges in the period of acquisition. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Impairment Loss on Investments (In millions) 2008 Change 2007 Change 2006 Impairment loss on investments $2.9 46% $2.0 38% $1.4 The impairment losses on investments were related to non marketable equity securities in private companies. These impairment losses resulted primarily from weak financial conditions of certain investees, certain investees diluting Xilinxs investment through the receipt of additional rounds of investment at a lower per share price or from the liquidation of certain investees. Interest and Other, Net (In millions) 2008 Change 2007 Change 2006 Interest and other, net $52.7 (38%) $85.3 86% $46.0 Percentage of net revenues 3% 5% 3% The decrease in interest and other, net in fiscal 2008 over the prior year was due to the interest expense ($32.0 million) related to the debentures issued in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 as well as a loss of approximately $4.7 million from the sale of the Companys remaining UMC investment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in interest income of $13.6 million in fiscal 2008 over the prior year due to higher yields resulting from investing in taxable securities and a larger investment portfolio. The increase in interest and other, net in fiscal 2007 over the prior year was due to higher yields from our investments, resulting from an increase in interest rates, and contributing to an increase of $23.6 million in interest income. The increase was also attributable to an increase of approximately $4.2 million in dividend income from the UMC investment compared to the prior year and a gain of approximately $7.0 million from the sale of a portion of the Companys UMC investment which was partially offset by portfolio capital losses. The increase in fiscal 2007 was also offset by interest expense related to the debentures of $2.2 million for fiscal 2007. During fiscal 2007, we began liquidating our investments with low interest rate yields (e.g., tax exempt municipal bonds) and investing in taxable securities such as floating rate notes, which had a higher rate of return than the tax exempt municipal bonds. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Provision for Income Taxes (In millions) 2008 Change 2007 Change 2006 Provision for income taxes $100.0 24% $80.5 (21)% $102.5 Percentage of net revenues 5% 4% 6% Effective tax rate 21% 19% 22% The effective tax rates in all years reflected the favorable impact of foreign income at statutory rates less than the United States rate and tax credits earned. 30 The increase in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2008, when compared with fiscal 2007, was primarily due to items unique to fiscal 2007 reducing the rates for the prior year period. The decrease in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2007 from fiscal 2006 was related to an increase in the amount of R&D tax credits recognized and an increase in the proportion of net income earned in lower tax jurisdictions. The Company also benefited from a decrease in tax reserves in fiscal 2007 due to expiration of the federal statute of limitations for fiscal 2003. These benefits were partially offset by non deductible stock based compensation resulting from the adoption of SFAS 123(R). The IRS examined the Companys tax returns for fiscal 1996 through 2001. All issues have been settled with the exception of issues related to Xilinx U.S.s cost sharing arrangement with Xilinx Ireland. On August 30, 2005, the Tax Court issued its opinion concerning whether the value of stock options must be included in the cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Tax Court agreed with the Company that no amount for stock options was to be included in the cost sharing agreement. Accordingly, there are no additional taxes, penalties or interest due for this issue. The Tax Court entered its decision on May 31, 2006. On August 25, 2006, the IRS appealed the decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The Company is opposing this appeal as it believes that the Tax Court decided the case correctly. The Company and the IRS presented oral arguments to a three judge panel of the Appeals Court on March 12, 2008. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources We have historically used a combination of cash flows from operations and equity and debt financing to support ongoing business activities, acquire or invest in critical or complementary technologies, purchase facilities and capital equipment, repurchase our common stock under our stock repurchase program, pay dividends and finance working capital. Additionally, our investments in debt securities are available for future sale. Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short term and Long term Investments The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short term and long term investments at March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007 totaled $1.86 billion and $1.81 billion, respectively. As of March 29, 2008, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.30 billion and working capital of $1.48 billion. Cash provided by operations of $581.0 million for fiscal 2008 was $29.4 million higher than the $551.6 million generated during fiscal 2007. Cash provided by operations during fiscal 2008 resulted primarily from net income as adjusted for non cash related items, decreases in inventories and prepaid expenses and increases in income taxes payable and deferred income on shipments to distributors which were partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable. The decrease in prepaid expenses in fiscal 2008 was primarily related to the utilization of the advance wafer purchase payment paid to Toshiba. In October 2004, we entered into an advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba under which the Company paid Toshiba a total of $100.0 million for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement, which expired in December 2006 and has since been extended until December 2008. The entire advance payment of $100.0 million is being reduced by future wafer purchases from Toshiba. At March 29, 2008, the unused balance of the advance payment remaining was $4.5 million. Net cash provided by investing activities was $192.0 million during fiscal 2008, as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $283.8 million in fiscal 2007. Net cash provided by investing activities during fiscal 2008 consisted of $232.2 million of net proceeds from the sale and maturity of available for sale securities, including $47.1 million of net proceeds from the sale of the remaining UMC investment, and a distribution from UMC of $10.7 million. These items were partially offset by $45.6 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment (see further discussion below) and $5.3 million of other investing activities. Net cash used in financing activities was $541.9 million in fiscal 2008, as compared to $415.3 million in fiscal 2007. Net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2008 consisted of $550.0 million for the repurchase of common stock and $140.0 million for dividend payments to stockholders. These items were partially offset by $125.6 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and $22.5 million for excess tax benefits from stock based compensation. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful accounts, customer returns and distributor pricing adjustments increased 37% from $182.3 million at the end of fiscal 2007 to $249.1 million at the end of fiscal 2008. Days sales outstanding increased to 49 days at March 29, 2008 from 36 days at March 31, 2007. The increases were primarily 31 attributable to the timing of payments from customers, credit issuance and the timing of shipments during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Inventories Inventories decreased from $174.6 million at March 31, 2007 to $130.3 million at March 29, 2008. The combined inventory days at Xilinx and distribution channel decreased to 94 days at March 29, 2008, compared to 112 days at March 31, 2007. The decreases were primarily due to improved forecasting accuracy and fewer inventory mix issues. We attempt to maintain sufficient levels of inventory in various product, package and speed configurations in order to keep lead times short and to meet forecasted customer demand. Conversely, we also attempt to minimize the handling costs associated with maintaining higher inventory levels and to fully realize the opportunities for cost reductions associated with architecture and manufacturing process advancements. We continually strive to balance these two objectives to provide excellent customer response at a competitive cost. Property, Plant and Equipment During fiscal 2008, we invested $45.6 million in property, plant and equipment compared to $110.8 million in fiscal 2007. Primary investments in fiscal 2008 were for computer equipment, software, test equipment, and building and leasehold improvements. The decrease in fiscal 2008 was primarily attributable to the accumulated construction costs incurred in fiscal 2007 in connection with our Asia Pacific regional headquarters building in Singapore, which was completed in June 2007, and the purchase in February 2007 of a parcel of land for $28.6 million near our headquarters in San Jose for future potential growth purposes, neither of which was repeated in fiscal 2008. We do not intend to build on the land at this time. We expect that property, plant and equipment expenditures will decrease in the future due to expense controls. Current Liabilities Current liabilities increased from $303.4 million at the end of fiscal 2007 to $340.7 million at the end of fiscal 2008. The increase was primarily due to the increases in deferred income on shipments to distributors and accrued payroll and related liabilities, which were partially offset by the decrease in accounts payable. The increase in deferred income on shipments to distributors was due to an increase in distributor inventories at March 29, 2008 compared to the prior year. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity decreased $100.9 million during fiscal 2008, from $1.77 billion in fiscal 2007 to $1.67 billion in fiscal 2008. The decrease in stockholders equity was attributable to the repurchase of common stock of $550.0 million, the payment of dividends to stockholders of $140.0 million and unrealized losses on available for sale securities, net of deferred tax benefits, of $1.8 million. The decreases were partially offset by net income of $374.0 million for fiscal 2008, the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans of $124.7 million, stock based compensation related amounts totaling $65.8 million, the related tax benefits associated with stock option exercises and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan of $15.8 million, the effect of the adoption of FIN 48 totaling $6.5 million, cumulative translation adjustment of $3.1 million and hedging transaction gains totaling $1.0 million. Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short term and Long term Investments The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short term and long term investments at March 31, 2007 and April 1, 2006 was $1.81 billion and $1.60 billion, respectively. As of March 31, 2007, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.14 billion and working capital of $1.40 billion. Cash provided by operations of $551.6 million for fiscal 2007 was $62.2 million higher than the $489.4 million generated during fiscal 2006. Cash provided by operations for fiscal 2007 resulted primarily from net income as adjusted for non cash related items, decreases in accounts receivable, inventories and prepaid expenses and an increase in income taxes payable (net of reclassifications), which were partially offset by increases in deferred income taxes and other assets, and decreases in accrued liabilities and deferred income on shipments to distributors. The decrease in prepaid expenses in fiscal 2007 was primarily related to the utilization of the advance wafer purchase payment paid to Toshiba. In October 2004, we entered into an advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba under which the Company paid Toshiba a total of $100.0 million for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement, which expired in December 2006 and has since been extended until December 2008. The entire advance payment of $100.0 million is being reduced by future wafer purchases from Toshiba. 32 At March 31, 2007, the unused balance of the advance payment remaining was $40.0 million. Net cash used in investing activities was $283.8 million during fiscal 2007, as compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $242.4 million in fiscal 2006. Net cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2007 consisted of $171.4 million of net purchases of available for sale securities, $110.8 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment (see further discussion below) and $1.6 million of other investing activities. The net purchases of available for sale securities during fiscal 2007 were primarily due to the portfolio mix of our short and long term security investments. Net cash used in financing activities was $415.3 million in fiscal 2007, as compared to $397.8 million in fiscal 2006. Net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2007 consisted of $1.43 billion for the repurchase of common stock and $120.8 million for dividend payments to stockholders. These items were primarily offset by $980.0 million of net proceeds from the issuance of the debentures and $128.1 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful accounts, customer returns and distributor pricing adjustments decreased 6% from $194.2 million at the end of fiscal 2006 to $182.3 million at the end of fiscal 2007. Days sales outstanding decreased to 36 days at March 31, 2007 from 41 days at April 1, 2006. The decreases were primarily attributable to strong collections during fiscal 2007 that were partially offset by increased shipments. Inventories Inventories decreased from $201.0 million at April 1, 2006 to $174.6 million at March 31, 2007. The combined inventory days at Xilinx and distribution channel decreased to 112 days at March 31, 2007, compared to 145 days at April 1, 2006. The decreases were primarily due to improved production yields (which lower our per unit inventory costs), inventory mix and greater visibility to our customers forecast and production requirements. Property, Plant and Equipment During fiscal 2007, we invested $110.8 million in property, plant and equipment compared to $67.0 million in fiscal 2006. Primary investments in fiscal 2007 were for computer equipment, IT equipment, test equipment, building and leasehold improvements, and land. The increase in fiscal 2007 was also attributable to the accumulated construction costs of the building in Singapore, which was completed in June 2007, and our purchase in February 2007 of a parcel of land for $28.6 million near our headquarters in San Jose for future potential growth purposes. Current Liabilities Current liabilities decreased from $345.0 million at the end of fiscal 2006 to $303.4 million at the end of fiscal 2007. The decrease was primarily due to the decreases in deferred income on shipments to distributors and other accrued liabilities, which were partially offset by the increases in accounts payable and accrued payroll and related liabilities. The decrease in deferred income on shipments to distributors was due to lower inventory in the distributor channel as distributors attempted to adjust their inventory level to align with end customer demand and to reduce inventory carrying costs. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity decreased $956.1 million during fiscal 2007, from $2.73 billion in fiscal 2006 to $1.77 billion in fiscal 2007. The decrease in stockholders equity was a result of the $1.43 billion repurchase of our common stock, $120.8 million of dividend payments to stockholders and $12.2 million decrease in other comprehensive income primarily due to a decrease in the fair market value of the UMC investment. The decrease was partially offset by net income of $350.7 million for fiscal 2007, the proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans of $125.8 million and the effect of stock based compensation expense and associated tax benefits of $130.4 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash generated from operations is used as our primary source of liquidity and capital resources. Our investment portfolio is also available for future cash requirements as is our $250.0 million revolving credit facility entered into in April 2007. There have been no borrowings to date under our existing revolving credit facility. We also have a shelf registration on file with the SEC pursuant to which we may offer an indeterminate amount of debt, equity and other securities. 33 We used $550.0 million of cash to repurchase 23.5 million shares of our common stock in fiscal 2008 compared with $1.43 billion used to repurchase 55.2 million shares in fiscal 2007. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, we received net proceeds of $980.0 million from the issuance of convertible debentures. As part of the $1.43 billion of stock repurchases in fiscal 2007, $930.0 million of the net proceeds from the debentures was used to repurchase 34.6 million shares of our common stock. During fiscal 2008, we paid $140.0 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing an aggregate amount of $0.48 per common share. During fiscal 2007, we paid $120.8 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing an aggregate amount of $0.36 per common share. On February 25, 2008, our Board of Directors declared an increase in the dividend rate on our common stock from $0.12 to $0.14 per common share for the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The dividend is payable on May 28, 2008. Our stock repurchase program and dividend policy could be impacted by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements relating to R&D, investments and acquisitions, legal risks, principal and interest payments on our debentures and other strategic investments. We anticipate that existing sources of liquidity and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future. However, the risk factors discussed in Item 1A included in Part I and below could affect our cash positions adversely. In addition, as a result of recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, certain types of investments such as asset backed securities may present risks arising from liquidity and or credit concerns. In the event these investments become illiquid, the Company does not expect this will materially affect its liquidity and capital resources or results of operations. We will continue to evaluate opportunities for investments to obtain additional wafer capacity, procurement of additional capital equipment and facilities, development of new products, and potential acquisitions of technologies or businesses that could complement our business. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at March 29, 2008 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. This table excludes amounts already recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as current liabilities at March 29, 2008. Payments Due by Period Less than More than Total 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years 5 years (In millions) Operating lease obligations (1) $ 31.3 $ 10.3 $ 14.2 $ 3.4 $ 3.4 Inventory and other purchase obligations (2) 74.3 74.3 Electronic design automation software licenses (3) 21.5 12.9 8.6 Intellectual property license rights obligations (4) 20.0 20.0 3.125% convertible debentures principal and interest (5) 1,905.0 31.3 62.5 62.5 1,748.7 Total $ 2,052.1 $ 128.8 $ 85.3 $ 65.9 $ 1,772.1 (1) We lease some of our facilities, office buildings and land under non cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through November 2035. Rent expense, net of rental income, under all operating leases was approximately $8.2 million for fiscal 2008. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about operating leases. (2) Due to the nature of our business, we depend entirely upon subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and some test services. The lengthy subcontractor lead times require us to order the materials and services in advance, and we are obligated to pay for the materials and services when completed. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services in the next three to six months, as the products meet delivery and quality specifications. (3) As of March 29, 2008, the Company had $21.5 million of non cancelable license obligations to providers of electronic design automation software and hardware/software maintenance expiring at various dates through September 2011. (4) In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company committed up to $20.0 million to acquire, in the future, rights to intellectual property until July 2023. License payments will be amortized over the useful life of the intellectual property acquired. (5) In March 2007, the Company issued $1.00 billion principal amount of 3.125% debentures due March 15, 2037. The debentures require payment of interest at an annual rate of 3.125% payable semiannually on March 15 and September 34 15 of each year, beginning September 15, 2007. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about our debentures. Due to the inherent uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash outflows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at March 29, 2008, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority. Therefore, $39.1 million of unrecognized tax benefits classified as long term income taxes payable in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of March 29, 2008, have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 29, 2008, we did not have any significant off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework and gives guidance regarding the methods used for measuring fair value in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 applies to other pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements; it does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 (fiscal 2009 for Xilinx), and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS 157 for financial assets and financial liabilities to have a material effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in February 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. 157 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement under Statement 13 (FSP 157 1) and FSP No. 157 2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 (FSP 157 2). FSP 157 1 removes leasing from the scope of SFAS 157 and FSP 157 2 delays the effective date of SFAS 157 from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2010 for all non financial assets and non financial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually). The Company is currently evaluating the impact that SFAS 157 will have on its financial condition and results of operations when it is applied to non financial assets and non financial liabilities beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about other recent accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.50 billion at March 29, 2008. Our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. The portfolio includes municipal bonds, floating rate notes, mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate bonds, auction rate securities and U.S. and foreign government and agency securities. In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuers credit rating. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. A hypothetical 100 basis point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by less than $9.0 million and $8.0 million, respectively. Credit Market Risk Since September 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions due to the increased concerns related to the U.S. sub prime mortgage market that have spread to other sectors of the U.S. economy. This has negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non investment grade securities. As a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that the Company may incur other than temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration. Please see Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about our investments. 35 Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained and the hedged relationship has been effective, are deferred and included in the basis of the transaction in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. Gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the consolidated statements of income as they are incurred. We enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our overseas operating expenses and other liabilities when deemed appropriate. As of March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007, we had the following outstanding forward currency exchange contracts: (In thousands and U.S. dollars) March 29, March 31, 2008 2007 Euro $ 18,616 $ Singapore dollar 11,938 16,902 Japanese Yen 5,364 4,309 British Pound 3,022 $ 38,940 $ 21,211 The net unrealized gain or loss, which approximates the fair market value of the above contracts, was immaterial at March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007. The contracts expire at various dates between April and June 2008. Our investments in several of our wholly owned subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As the financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the U.S. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments. These fluctuations are recorded within stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Other foreign denominated assets and liabilities are revalued on a monthly basis with gains and losses on revaluation reflected in net income. A hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates at March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007 would have affected the annualized foreign currency denominated operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries by less than $15.0 million and $14.0 million, respectively. In addition, a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007 would have affected the value of foreign currency denominated cash and investments by less than $6.0 million and $4.0 million, respectively. 36 
 
