Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information about our revenues from our product families. Research and Development Our research and development (R&D) activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ICs, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of logic IP cores, the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and the lowering of PLD power consumption. As a result of our R&D efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past several years including the Virtex 6, Virtex 5 and Spartan 6 families. Additionally, we have made enhancements to our IP core offerings and introduced new versions of our ISE Design Suite. We extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 65 nm, 45 nm and 40 nm complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) manufacturing technology and we were the first company in the PLD industry to ship 65 nm and 45 nm high volume FPGA devices. 7 Our R&D challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost effective solutions for customers. In fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, our R&D expenses were $355.4 million, $358.1 million and $388.1 million, respectively. We believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and we are committed to maintaining a significant level of R&D investment. Sales and Distribution We sell our products to OEMs and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to OEMs or contract manufacturers. We use dedicated global sales and marketing organizations as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. In general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing those customers in defined territories. Distributors create demand within the balance of our customer base. Distributors also provide vendor managed inventory, value added services and logistics for a wide range of our OEM customers. Whether Xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. In such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they bear all legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign currency fluctuations, but excluding indemnity and warranty liability. In accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a subsequent change in list prices. Revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributors end customers. Avnet, Inc. (Avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007. As of March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008, Avnet accounted for 81% and 83% of the Companys total accounts receivable, respectively. Resale of product through Avnet accounted for 55%, 61% and 67% of the Companys worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We also use other regional distributors throughout the world. From time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific geographies, as we deem appropriate given the level of business, their performance and financial condition. We believe distributors provide a cost effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. Since PLDs are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. See Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Concentrations of Risk to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for information about concentrations of credit risk and Note 17. Segment Information for information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations. Backlog As of March 28, 2009, our backlog from OEM customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $162.0 million, compared to $202.0 million as of March 29, 2008. Orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. As a result, backlogs from both OEM customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. Wafer Fabrication As a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our IC products or PROMs. Rather, we purchase wafers from multiple foundries including United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC), Toshiba Corporation (Toshiba), Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko), Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. and He Jian Technology (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Currently, UMC manufactures the substantial majority of our wafers. Precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by our periodic negotiations with the wafer foundries. Our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ICs and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. We continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of leading edge process technologies. In September 1995, we entered into a joint venture with UMC and other parties to construct a wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan, known as United Silicon Inc. (USIC). In January 2000, as a result of the merger of USIC into UMC, our equity position in USIC was converted into shares of UMC, which are publicly traded on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. In fiscal 2007, we sold a portion of our UMC shares and we sold the remaining shares of our UMC investment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. 8 In fiscal 1997, we signed a wafer purchasing agreement with Seiko. Seiko manufactures wafers for some of our most mature product lines. In October 2004, the Company entered into an advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba under which the Company paid Toshiba a total of $100.0 million in two equal installments for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement. The original agreement was extended to December 2008. The balance of the advance payment remaining was zero as of March 28, 2009. Sort, Assembly and Test Wafers purchased are sorted by the foundry, independent sort subcontractors, or by Xilinx. Sorted die are assembled by subcontractors. During the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. Following assembly, the packaged units are tested by Xilinx personnel at our San Jose, California, Dublin, Ireland or Singapore facilities or by independent test subcontractors. We purchase most of our assembly and some of our testing services from Siliconware Precision Industries Ltd. in Taiwan, Amkor Technology, Inc. in Korea and the Philippines and STATS ChipPAC Ltd. in Singapore. Quality Certification Xilinx has achieved quality management systems certification for ISO 9001:2000 for our facilities in San Jose, California, Dublin, Ireland, Longmont, Colorado, Singapore and Albuquerque, New Mexico. In addition, Xilinx achieved ISO 14001, TL 9000 and TS 16949 environmental and quality certifications in the San Jose, Dublin and Singapore locations, TL 9000 certifications in the Longmont and Albuquerque locations and TS 16949 certifications in the Albuquerque and Hyderabad, India locations. Patents and Licenses While our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. As of March 28, 2009, we held more than 2,000 issued United States (U.S.) patents, which vary in duration, and over 750 pending U.S. patent applications relating to our proprietary technology. We maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, circuits, software, IC architecture, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to PLDs. We have licensed some parties to certain portions of our patent portfolio and obtained licenses to certain third party patents as well. We have acquired various licenses from third parties to certain technologies that are implemented in IP cores or embedded in our PLDs, such as processors. Those licenses support our continuing ability to make and sell these PLDs to our customers. We also sublicense certain third party proprietary software and open source software, such as compilers, for our design tools. Continued use of those software components is important to the operation of the design tools upon which customers depend. We maintain the Xilinx trade name as well as numerous trademarks and registered trademarks including Xilinx, Virtex, Spartan, ISE, and associated logos. Maintaining these rights, and the goodwill associated with these trademarks and logos, is important to our business. We also have license rights to use certain trademarks owned by consortiums and other trademark owners that are related to our products and business. We intend to protect our intellectual property vigorously. We believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights (including, for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) or failure to protect our trade secrets effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the future, we may incur potentially significant litigation expenses to defend against claims of infringement or to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties. However, any such litigation may or may not be successful. Employees As of March 28, 2009, we had 3,145 employees compared to 3,415 as of the end of the prior fiscal year. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. Competition Our PLDs compete in the logic IC industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. We expect increased competition from our primary PLD competitors, Altera Corporation (Altera), Lattice Semiconductor Corporation (Lattice) and Actel Corporation (Actel), from the ASIC market, which has been ongoing since the inception of FPGAs, from the ASSP market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. Other competitors include manufacturers of: 9 high density programmable logic products characterized by FPGA type architectures; high volume and low cost FPGAs as programmable replacements for ASICs and ASSPs; ASICs and ASSPs with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high speed, low density CPLDs; high performance DSP devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. We believe that important competitive factors in the logic IC industry include: product pricing; time to market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined IP cores of logic; inventory management; access to leading edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high volume, low cost and low power applications as well as high performance, high density applications. In addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. We also recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Executive Officers of the Registrant Certain information regarding the executive officers of Xilinx as of June 1, 2009 is set forth below: Name Age Position Moshe N. Gavrielov 54 President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Scott R. Hover Smoot 54 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Jon A. Olson 55 Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Victor Peng 49 Senior Vice President, Programmable Platforms Development Raja G. Petrakian 45 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations Vincent F. Ratford 57 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Marketing Vincent L. Tong 47 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Quality and New Product Introductions Frank A. Tornaghi 54 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales There are no family relationships among the executive officers of the Company or the Board of Directors. Moshe N. Gavrielov joined the Company in January 2008 as President and CEO and was appointed to the Board of Directors in February 2008. Prior to joining the Company, he served at Cadence Design Systems, Inc., an electronic design automation company, as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Verification Division from April 2005 through November 2007. Mr. Gavrielov served as CEO of Verisity Ltd., an electronic design automation company, from March 1998 to April 2005 prior to its acquisition by Cadence Design Systems, Inc. Prior to joining Verisity, Mr. Gavrielov spent nearly 10 years at LSI Corporation (formerly LSI Logic Corporation), a semiconductor manufacturer, in a variety of executive management positions, including Executive Vice President of the Products Group, Senior Vice President and General Manager of International Marketing and Sales and Senior Vice President and General Manager of LSI Logic Europe plc. Prior to joining LSI Corporation, Mr. Gavrielov held various engineering and engineering management positions at Digital Equipment Corporation and National Semiconductor Corporation. Scott R. Hover Smoot joined the Company in October 2007 as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. From November 2001 to October 2007, Mr. Hover Smoot served as Regional Counsel and Director of Legal Operations with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd., an independent semiconductor foundry. He served as Vice President and General Counsel of California Micro Devices Corporation, a provider of application specific protection devices and display electronics devices from June 10 1994 to November 2001. Prior to joining California Micro Devices Corporation, Mr. Hover Smoot spent over 20 years working in law firms including Berliner Cohen, Flehr, Hohbach, Test, Albritton & Herbert, and Lyon & Lyon. Jon A. Olson joined the Company in June 2005 as Vice President, Finance and CFO. Mr. Olson was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Finance and CFO in August 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Olson spent more than 25 years at Intel Corporation, a semiconductor chip maker, serving in a variety of positions, including Vice President, Finance and Enterprise Services, Director of Finance. Victor Peng joined the Company in April 2008 as Senior Vice President, Silicon Engineering Group and assumed his current position of Senior Vice President, Programmable Platforms Development in November 2008. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Peng served as Corporate Vice President, Graphics Products Group at Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), a provider of processing solutions, from November 2005 to April 2008. Before joining AMD, Mr. Peng served as Vice President of Silicon Engineering in the Graphics Products Group business unit at ATI Technologies, a graphics processor unit provider, from April 2005 until its acquisition by AMD. Before joining ATI Technologies, Mr. Peng served as Vice President of Engineering at TZero Technologies, a fabless semiconductor company, from September 2004 to April 2005. From November 2000 to September 2004, Mr. Peng served as Vice President of Engineering at MIPS Technologies, a semiconductor design IP company. Raja G. Petrakian joined the Company in October 1995 and has served in a number of key roles within Operations, most recently as Senior Director of Supply Chain Management and Vice President of Supply Chain Management. Dr. Petrakian was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations in March 2009. Prior to joining Xilinx, Dr. Petrakian spent more than three years at the IBM T.J. Research Center serving as a research staff member in the Manufacturing Research Department. Vincent F. Ratford joined the Company in January 2006 as Vice President of Marketing, Business Development and Silicon Architecture. Mr. Ratford was promoted to Vice President and General Manager in October 2007. He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Solutions Development Group in April 2008 and assumed his current position of Senior Vice President, Worldwide Marketing in November 2008. Prior to joining the Company, he served as President and CEO of AccelChip, Inc. (AccelChip), a provider of synthesis software tools for designing DSP systems, from July 2004 until its acquisition by Xilinx in January 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Ratford operated the consulting firm, DeepTech Consulting, from April 2002 to July 2004. Mr. Ratford worked at Virage Logic Corporation, a provider of semiconductor IP, as Vice President of Marketing and Business Development from July 2000 to April 2002 and as Vice President of Sales and Marketing from February 1998 to July 2000. Before joining Virage Logic, Mr. Ratford served as Chief Operating Officer of the Microtec Division of Mentor Graphics, a provider of hardware and software design solutions to semiconductor companies, from October 1995 to December 1997. Before joining the Microtec Division, he was Director of Marketing for Mentor Graphics System Design Division from May 1993 to October 1995. Vincent L. Tong joined the Company in May 1990 and has served in a number of key roles, most recently as Vice President of Product Technology and as Vice President, Worldwide Quality and Reliability. In April 2008, he was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Worldwide Quality and New Product Introductions. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Tong served in a variety of engineering positions at Monolithic Memories, a producer of logic devices, and AMD. Mr. Tong serves on the board of the Global Semiconductor Alliance, a non profit semiconductor organization. Frank A. Tornaghi joined the Company in February 2008 as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales in April 2008. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Tornaghi spent 22 years at LSI Corporation. Mr. Tornaghi acted as an independent consultant from April 2006 until he joined the Company. He served as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales at LSI Corporation from July 2001 to April 2006 and as Vice President, North America Sales, from May 1993 to July 2001. From 1984 until May 1993, Mr. Tornaghi held various management positions in sales at LSI Corporation. Additional Information Our Internet address is www.xilinx.com. We make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our Annual Report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. Printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without charge, upon written request directed to Xilinx, Inc., Attn: Investor Relations, 2100 Logic Drive, San Jose, CA 95124. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10 K is located at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. The content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. 11 Additional information required by this Item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned Net Revenues Net Revenues by Geography in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and to Note 17. Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. This annual report includes trademarks and service marks of Xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and registered in the United States and other countries. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Companys management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. If any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. General economic conditions and the related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Global consumer confidence has eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations, among other concerns. These concerns have slowed global economic growth and have resulted in recessions in numerous countries, including many of those in North America, Europe and Asia. Recent economic conditions had a negative impact on our results of operations during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009 due to reduced customer demand and it is unclear when economic conditions will improve. As these economic conditions continue to persist, or if they worsen, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, which could result in production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. Any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability. The semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry, including the current downturn. Down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. Weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write downs. We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Due to these and other factors, our past results are much less reliable predictors of the future than for companies in older, more stable industries. The nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers products and those products achieving market acceptance. Due to the complexity of our customers designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. In addition, we are increasingly dependent upon turns, orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter, and we have historically derived a significant portion of our quarterly revenue during the last weeks of the quarter. These factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. The difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted in inventory write downs or failure to timely meet customer product demands. In addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward looking revenue and earnings guidance. Global economic conditions, the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could have a material adverse affect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to our U.S. operations, we also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, our regional headquarters in Ireland and Singapore and a research and development site in India. In connection with the restructuring we announced in April 2009, we expect our international operations to grow as we relocate certain operations and administrative functions. Sales and operations outside of the U.S. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. The Company derives over one half of its revenues from international sales, 12 primarily in the Asia Pacific region, Europe and Japan. Past and current economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues. The timing and nature of economic recovery in these markets as well as in the U.S. remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that global market conditions will improve in the near future. Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. While the recent movement of the Euro and Yen against the U.S. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our European and Japanese customers. Currency instability and recent volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital markets may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers ability to repay existing obligations. Increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign currency denominated costs, assets and liabilities. In addition, devaluation of the U.S. dollar relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. Furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political instability, terrorist activity or U.S. military actions could impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our cash, short term and long term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and financial market conditions. Since September 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non investment grade securities. The global credit and capital markets have recently experienced further significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system and the current uncertainty related to global economic conditions. As of March 28, 2009, less than 7% of our $1.58 billion investment portfolio consisted of asset backed securities and approximately 11% of the portfolio consisted of mortgage backed securities. Asset backed securities consisted of student loan auction rate securities and other asset backed securities. Approximately 4% of our investment portfolio consisted of student loan auction rate securities and all of these securities are rated AAA with the exception of approximately 14% that were downgraded to A rating during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. More than 98% of the underlying assets that secure the student loan auction rate securities are pools of student loans originated under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) that are substantially guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Education. These securities experienced failed auctions in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 due to liquidity issues in the global credit markets. In a failed auction, the interest rates are reset to a maximum rate defined by the contractual terms for each security. We have collected and expect to collect all interest payable on these securities when due. During fiscal 2009, $1.4 million of these student loan auction rate securities were redeemed for cash by the issuers at par value. Beginning with the quarter ended March 29, 2008, the student loan auction rate securities were reclassified from short term to long term investments on the consolidated balance sheets since there can be no assurance of a successful auction in the future. The final maturity dates range from March 2023 to November 2047. All other asset backed securities comprised less than 3% of our investment portfolio as of March 28, 2009, of which approximately 9% are AAA rated with the majority of the rest of the asset backed securities rated A or BBB. These asset backed securities are secured primarily by bank, finance and insurance company obligations, collateralized loan and bank obligations, credit card debt and mortgage backed securities with no direct U.S. subprime mortgage exposure. Substantially all of the other mortgage backed securities in the investment portfolio are AAA rated, were issued by U.S. government sponsored enterprises and agencies and represented approximately 11% of the investment portfolio as of March 28, 2009. As a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that we may incur additional other than temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated due to the continued or worsening global economic conditions. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities is judged to be other than temporary. Furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. See Note 4. Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for a table of our available for sale securities. We are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the U.S. which could adversely affect our business. In addition to international sales and support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries and have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the U.S. In connection with the restructuring we announced in April 2009, we expect these subcontractor activities to increase. All of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including tax laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, foreign governmental regulations, reduced protection for IP, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and or operating results. Additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in 13 countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. Adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities or design wins; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 65nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined IP cores of logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and market acceptance of our customers products. Our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. Revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. As a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. We rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are dependent on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. During fiscal 2009, nearly all of our wafers were manufactured either in Taiwan, by UMC or in Japan, by Toshiba or Seiko. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between Xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short term agreements that do not provide for long term supply or allocation commitments. We are dependent on these foundries, especially UMC, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. We rely on UMC to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. These attributes include an ability to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. We cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products. In addition, current economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. The insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We have established other sources of wafer supply for our products in an effort to secure a continued supply of wafers. However, establishing, maintaining and managing multiple foundry relationships requires the investment of management resources as well as additional costs. If we do not manage these relationships effectively, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. If greater demand for wafers produced by the foundries is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, or market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. Such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities. Such 14 increases in wafer prices or materials could adversely affect our gross margins and shortages of wafers and materials would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands. Earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. The independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our California and Singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. UMCs foundries in Taiwan and Toshibas and Seikos foundries in Japan as well as many of our operations in California are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters. Any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities. This type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. Any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. In addition, current economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. These factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to successfully compete in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. Our PLDs compete in the logic IC industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. We expect increased competition from our primary PLD competitors, Altera, Lattice and Actel, from the ASIC market, which has been ongoing since the inception of FPGAs, from the ASSP market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. We believe that important competitive factors in the logic IC industry include: product pricing; time to market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined IP cores of logic; inventory management; access to leading edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high volume, low cost and low power applications as well as high performance, high density applications. In addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. However, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies. Other competitors include manufacturers of: high density programmable logic products characterized by FPGA type architectures; high volume and low cost FPGAs as programmable replacements for ASICs and ASSPs; ASICs and ASSPs with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high speed, low density CPLDs; high performance DSP devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. 15 Several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell PLD products. To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment. We recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. Recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our IC products. We believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment. We could also face competition from our licensees. In the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. Granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. Our failure to protect and defend our intellectual property could impair our ability to compete effectively. We rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Third parties may assert infringement claims against our indemnitees or us in the future. Assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation or indemnity claims and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. This could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products. Any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on information technology systems, and failure of these systems to function properly could result in business disruption. We rely in part on various information technology (IT) systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. Consequently, we periodically implement new, or enhance existing, operational and IT systems, procedures and controls. For example, we recently simplified our supply chain and were required to make certain changes to our IT systems. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Further, these systems are subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failure. Failure of our IT systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (the Act). Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. The identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. Further, our internal control effectiveness may be impacted upon executing the restructuring plan announced in April 2009 if we are unable to successfully transfer certain control activities and responsibilities to new personnel in different locations. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. From time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Certain claims are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed in Item 3. Legal Proceedings, included in Part I, and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. Should the Company fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. We develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. Despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. These defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our 16 relationships with customers. Product defects or other performance problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. Product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. Any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. In preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. In preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. Those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long lived assets, taxes, legal matters and stock based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates. If these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected. We depend on distributors, primarily Avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. Resale of product through Avnet accounted for 55% of the Companys worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2009 and as of March 28, 2009, Avnet accounted for 81% of our total accounts receivable. In addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. A significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. Furthermore, if a key distributor materially defaults on a contract or otherwise fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. In addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. Current economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. This could result in the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or cause distributors to delay payment of their obligations to us and increase our credit risk exposure. Our business could be harmed if the financial health of these distributors impairs their performance and we are unable to secure alternate distributors. Reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. The average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. We seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. We also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average selling price of our products. However, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins. A number of factors can impact our gross margins. A number of factors, including our product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and or market segment pricing strategies and various manufacturing cost variables cause our gross margins to fluctuate. In addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because the majority of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. If we do not successfully implement the restructuring we announced in April 2009, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. In April 2009, we announced restructuring measures and a net reduction in our global workforce by up to 200 positions, which we expect to complete by the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. The positions will be eliminated across a variety of functions and geographies worldwide. The restructuring is designed to drive structural operating efficiencies across the Company and will align our Company with the evolving geographic distribution of our customers and supply chain. However, if we do not successfully implement this restructuring, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations with regard to our announced restructuring include: 17 the availability and hiring of the appropriately skilled workers in the Asia Pacific region; the transition of testing and other operational matters to third parties; and or the timing and execution of our programs and plans related to the restructuring. Considerable amounts of our common shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and debentures, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. As of March 28, 2009, we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 275.5 million shares were outstanding. In addition, 62.7 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and 1990 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan (Employee Stock Purchase Plan), and 22.4 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 3.125% convertible debentures due March 15, 2037 (debentures). The availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the conversion or repurchase of debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate offices, which include the administrative, sales, customer support, marketing, R&D and manufacturing and testing groups, are located in San Jose, California. This main site consists of adjacent buildings providing 588,000 square feet of space, which we own. We also own two parcels of land totaling approximately 121 acres in South San Jose near our corporate facility. At present, we do not have any plans to develop the land. We also have a 106,000 square foot leased facility in San Jose, which we do not occupy and is presently listed for subleasing. We also own a 228,000 square foot facility in the metropolitan area of Dublin, Ireland, which serves as our regional headquarters in Europe. The Irish facility is primarily used for manufacturing and testing of our products, service and support for our customers in Europe, R&D and IT support. In addition, we also own a 222,000 square foot facility in Singapore, which serves as our Asia Pacific regional headquarters. We own the building but the land is subject to a 30 year lease expiring in November 2035. The Singapore facility is primarily used for manufacturing and testing of our products, service and support for our customers in Asia Pacific/Japan, coordination and management of certain third parties in our supply chain and R&D. Excess space in the facility is leased to tenants under long term lease agreements. We also own a 130,000 square foot facility in Longmont, Colorado. The Longmont facility serves as the primary location for our software efforts in the areas of R&D, manufacturing and quality control. In addition, we also own a 200,000 square foot facility and 40 acres of land adjacent to the Longmont facility for future expansion. The facility is partially leased to tenants under long term lease agreements and partially used by the Company. We own a 45,000 square foot facility in Albuquerque, New Mexico, which is used for the development of our CoolRunner CPLD product families as well as IP cores. We lease office facilities for our engineering design centers in Portland, Oregon, Grenoble, France, Edinburgh, Scotland, Hyderabad, India and Toronto, Canada. We also lease sales offices in various locations throughout North America, which include the metropolitan areas of Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, Nashua, Ottawa, Raleigh, San Diego and Toronto as well as international sales offices located in the metropolitan areas of Beijing, Brussels, Helsinki, Hong Kong, London, Milan, Munich, Osaka, Paris, Seoul, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Stockholm, Taipei, Tel Aviv and Tokyo. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Internal Revenue Service The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audited and issued proposed adjustments to the Companys tax returns for fiscal 1996 through 2001. The Company filed petitions with the Tax Court in response to assertions by the IRS relating to fiscal 1996 through 2000. To date, all issues have been settled with the IRS in this matter except as described in the following paragraphs. On August 30, 2005, the Tax Court issued its opinion concerning whether the value of stock options must be included in the cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Tax Court agreed with the Company that no amount for stock options was to be included in the cost sharing agreement, and thus, the Company had no tax, interest, or penalties due for this issue. The Tax Court entered its decision on May 31, 2006. On August 25, 2006, the IRS appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. 18 The Company and the IRS presented oral arguments to a three judge panel of the Appeals Court on March 12, 2008. On May 27, 2009, the Company received a 2 1 adverse judicial ruling from the Appeals Court reversing the Tax Court decision and holding that the Company should include stock option amounts in its cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Company does not agree with the Appeals Court decision and is reviewing its alternatives as a result of the decision. The Company expects to record expense of $8.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 in order to reverse the interest income it accrued through March 28, 2009 on the earlier prepayment it made to the IRS. The Company is presently determining the amount of penalties and interest to be accrued under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48) in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 as a result of this decision. In a separate matter, on December 8, 2008, the IRS issued a statutory notice of deficiency reflecting proposed audit adjustments for fiscal 2005. The Company filed a petition with the Tax Court on March 2, 2009, in response to this notice of deficiency and plans to contest the proposed adjustments. The Company believes it has provided adequate reserves for any tax deficiencies that could result from this IRS action. Patent Litigation On December 28, 2007, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed by PACT XPP Technologies, AG (PACT) against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division (PACT XPP Technologies, AG. v. Xilinx, Inc. and Avnet, Inc. Case No. 2:07 CV 563). The lawsuit pertains to 11 different patents and PACT seeks injunctive relief, unspecified damages and interest and attorneys fees. Neither the likelihood, nor the amount of any potential exposure to the Company is estimable at this time. On August 21, 2007, Lonestar Inventions, L.P. (Lonestar) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Xilinx in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division (Lonestar Inventions, L.P. v. Xilinx, Inc. Case No. 6:07 CV 393). The lawsuit pertained to a single patent and Lonestar sought injunctive relief, unspecified damages and interest and attorneys fees. The parties reached a confidential agreement to settle the action and the lawsuit was dismissed with prejudice on December 18, 2008. The amount of the settlement did not have a material impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. Other Matters From time to time, we are involved in various disputes and litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contract law, tax, regulatory, distribution arrangements, employee relations and other matters. Periodically, we review the status of each matter and assess its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and a range of possible losses can be estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Legal proceedings are subject to uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict. Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we continue to reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise estimates. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report. 19 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol XLNX. As of May 6, 2009, there were approximately 793 stockholders of record. Since many holders shares are listed under their brokerage firms names, the actual number of stockholders is estimated by the Company to be over 105,000. The following table sets forth the high and low closing sale prices, for the periods indicated, for our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market: Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2008 High Low High Low First Quarter $28.16 $22.96 $30.18 $25.65 Second Quarter 27.55 22.48 28.70 24.34 Third Quarter 23.45 14.61 26.97 21.16 Fourth Quarter 20.38 15.47 24.94 19.06 Dividends Declared Per Common Share The following table presents the quarterly dividends declared on our common stock for the periods indicated: Fiscal Fiscal 2009 2008 First Quarter $0.14 $0.12 Second Quarter 0.14 0.12 Third Quarter 0.14 0.12 Fourth Quarter 0.14 0.12 On April 21, 2009, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.14 per common share for the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The dividend is payable on June 3, 2009 to stockholders of record on May 13, 2009. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Company did not repurchase any of its common stock during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. The value of shares or outstanding debentures that may yet be purchased under our current common stock and debentures repurchase program is $525.7 million. See Note 15. Stockholders Equity to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for information regarding our stock repurchase plans. On February 25, 2008, we announced a repurchase program of up to $800.0 million of common stock. On November 6, 2008, our Board of Directors approved the amendment of the Companys $800.0 million stock repurchase program to provide that the funds may also be used to repurchase outstanding debentures. This repurchase program has no stated expiration date. Through March 28, 2009, the Company had used $274.3 million of the $800.0 million authorized for the repurchase of its outstanding common stock and debentures. 20 Company Stock Price Performance The following graph shows a comparison of cumulative total return for the Companys common stock, the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index (S&P 500 Index), and the Standard & Poors 500 Semiconductors Index (S&P 500 Semiconductors Index). The graph covers the period from April 2, 2004, the last trading day before Xilinxs 2005 fiscal year, to March 27, 2009, the last trading day of Xilinxs 2009 fiscal year. The graph and table assume that $100 was invested on April 2, 2004 in Xilinx, Inc. common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Semiconductors Index and that all dividends were reinvested. Company / Index 4/2/04 4/1/05 3/31/06 3/30/07 3/28/08 3/27/09 Xilinx, Inc. 100.00 72.47 64.79 66.44 60.79 52.73 S&P 500 Index 100.00 104.55 117.58 131.49 124.11 79.01 S&P 500 Semiconductors Index 100.00 80.37 88.16 81.40 76.20 56.39 Note: Stock price performance and indexed returns for our Common Stock are historical and are not an indicator of future price performance or future investment returns. 21 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Consolidated Statement of Income DataFive years ended March 28, 2009 (In thousands, except per share amounts) 2009(1) 2008(2) 2007(3) 2006(4) 2005(5) Net revenues $ 1,825,184 $ 1,841,372 $ 1,842,739 $ 1,726,250 $ 1,573,233 Operating income (6) 429,518 424,194 347,767 412,062 372,040 Income before income taxes (6) 498,184 474,094 431,146 456,602 400,544 Provision for income taxes 122,544 100,047 80,474 102,453 87,821 Net income 375,640 374,047 350,672 354,149 312,723 Net income per common share: Basic $ 1.36 $ 1.27 $ 1.04 $ 1.01 $ 0.90 Diluted $ 1.36 $ 1.25 $ 1.02 $ 1.00 $ 0.87 Shares used in per share calculations: Basic 276,113 295,050 337,920 349,026 347,810 Diluted 276,854 298,636 343,636 355,065 358,230 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.56 $ 0.48 $ 0.36 $ 0.28 $ 0.20 (1) Income before income taxes includes restructuring charges of $22,023, a gain on early extinguishment of convertible debentures of $110,606, impairment loss on investments of $54,129 and a charge of $3,086 related to an impairment of a leased facility that the Company no longer intends to occupy. (2) Income before income taxes includes a loss on the sale of the Companys remaining UMC investment of $4,732, an impairment loss on investments of $2,850 and a charge of $1,614 related to an impairment of a leased facility that the Company no longer intends to occupy. (3) Income before income taxes includes a charge of $5,934 related to an impairment of a leased facility that the Company no longer intends to occupy, a loss related to a litigation settlement of $2,500, stock based compensation related to prior years of $2,209, an impairment loss on investments of $1,950 and a gain of $7,016 from the sale of a portion of the Companys UMC investment. (4) Income before income taxes includes a loss related to litigation settlements and contingencies of $3,165, a write off of acquired in process R&D of $4,500 related to the acquisition of AccelChip and an impairment loss on investments of $1,418. (5) Income before income taxes includes a write off of acquired in process R&D of $7,198 related to the acquisition of Hier Design Inc. and impairment loss on investments of $3,099. (6) The Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)) in fiscal 2007. Results for prior fiscal years do not include the effects of stock based compensation (see Notes 2 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Consolidated Balance Sheet DataFive years ended March 28, 2009(In thousands) 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Working capital $ 1,519,402 $ 1,479,530 $ 1,396,733 $ 1,303,224 $ 1,154,163 Total assets 2,825,515 3,137,107 3,179,355 3,173,547 3,039,196 Convertible debentures 690,125 999,851 999,597 Other long term liabilities 81,776 40,281 (1) 1,320 7,485 Stockholders equity 1,737,900 1,671,823 1,772,740 2,728,885 2,673,508 (1) Includes $39,122 of long term income taxes payable reclassified from current to non current liabilities in connection with the adoption of FIN 48. See Note 16. Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 22 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Cautionary Statement The statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis that are forward looking, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, involve numerous risks and uncertainties and are based on current expectations. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements for many reasons, including those risks discussed under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this document. Often, forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words, such as may, will, could, should, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. We disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward looking statement provided in this Managements Discussion and Analysis for any reason. Nature of Operations We design, develop and market complete programmable logic solutions, including advanced ICs, software design tools, predefined system functions delivered as IP cores, design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. Our PLDs include FPGAs and CPLDs. These devices are standard products that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. Our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time to market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. We sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to OEMs by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The SEC has defined critical accounting policies as those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, our critical accounting policies include: valuation of marketable and non marketable securities, which impacts losses on debt and equity securities when we record impairments; revenue recognition, which impacts the recording of revenues; and valuation of inventories, which impacts cost of revenues and gross margin. Our critical accounting policies also include: the assessment of impairment of long lived assets including acquisition related intangibles, which impacts their valuation; the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill, which impacts goodwill impairment; accounting for income taxes, which impacts the provision or benefit recognized for income taxes, as well as the valuation of deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet; and valuation and recognition of stock based compensation, which impacts gross margin, R&D expenses, and selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. Valuation of Marketable and Non marketable Securities The Companys short term and long term investments include marketable debt securities and non marketable equity securities. As of March 28, 2009, the Company had marketable debt securities with a fair value of $1.24 billion and non marketable equity securities in private companies of $20.5 million (adjusted cost). Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the assessment of fair value is based on the provisions of SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). The Company determines the fair values for marketable debt and equity securities using industry standard pricing services, data providers and other third party sources and by performing valuation analyses. See Note 3. Fair Value Measurements to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for details of the valuation methodologies. In determining if and when a decline in value below adjusted cost of marketable debt and equity securities is other than temporary, the Company evaluates on an ongoing basis the market conditions, trends of earnings, financial condition, credit ratings, any underlying collateral and other key measures for our investments. We assess other than temporary impairment of debt and equity securities in accordance with FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 115 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. We recorded other than temporary impairments for marketable debt securities and a marketable equity security in fiscal 2009. We did not record any other than temporary impairment for marketable debt or equity securities in fiscal 2008 or 2007. 23 The Companys investments in non marketable securities of private companies are accounted for by using the cost method. These investments are measured at fair value on a non recurring basis when they are deemed to be other than temporarily impaired. In determining whether a decline in value of non marketable equity investments in private companies has occurred and is other than temporary, an assessment is made by considering available evidence, including the general market conditions in the investees industry, the investees product development status and subsequent rounds of financing and the related valuation and or our participation in such financings. We also assess the investees ability to meet business milestones and the financial condition and near term prospects of the individual investee, including the rate at which the investee is using its cash and the investees need for possible additional funding at a lower valuation. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the assessment of fair value is based on the provisions of SFAS 157. The valuation methodology for determining the decline in value of non marketable equity securities is based on the factors noted above which require management judgment and are Level 3 inputs. See Note 3. Fair Value Measurements to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information relating to the adoption of SFAS 157. When a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, the Company recognizes an impairment loss in the current periods operating results to the extent of the decline. We recorded other than temporary impairments for non marketable equity securities in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007. Revenue Recognition Sales to distributors are made under agreements providing distributor price adjustments and rights of return under certain circumstances. Revenue and costs relating to distributor sales are deferred until products are sold by the distributors to the distributors end customers. For fiscal 2009, approximately 77% of our net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to OEMs or their subcontract manufacturers. Revenue recognition depends on notification from the distributor that product has been sold to the distributors end customer. Also reported by the distributor are product resale price, quantity and end customer shipment information, as well as inventory on hand. Reported distributor inventory on hand is reconciled to deferred revenue balances monthly. We maintain system controls to validate distributor data and to verify that the reported information is accurate. Deferred income on shipments to distributors reflects the effects of distributor price adjustments and the amount of gross margin expected to be realized when distributors sell through product purchased from the Company. Accounts receivable from distributors are recognized and inventory is relieved when title to inventories transfers, typically upon shipment from Xilinx at which point we have a legally enforceable right to collection under normal payment terms. As of March 28, 2009, we had $90.4 million of deferred revenue and $28.0 million of deferred cost of goods sold recognized as a net $62.4 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. As of March 29, 2008, we had $158.0 million of deferred revenue and $46.3 million of deferred cost of goods sold recognized as a net $111.7 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. The deferred income on shipments to distributors that will ultimately be recognized in our consolidated statement of income will be different than the amount shown on the consolidated balance sheet due to actual price adjustments issued to the distributors when the product is sold to their end customers. Revenue from sales to our direct customers is recognized upon shipment provided that persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, the price is fixed, title has transferred, collection of resulting receivables is reasonably assured, and there are no customer acceptance requirements and no remaining significant obligations. For each of the periods presented, there were no significant formal acceptance provisions with our direct customers. Revenue from software licenses is deferred and recognized as revenue over the term of the licenses of one year. Revenue from support services is recognized when the service is performed. Revenue from Support Products, which includes software and services sales, was less than 7% of net revenues for all of the periods presented. Allowances for end customer sales returns are recorded based on historical experience and for known pending customer returns or allowances. Valuation of Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of actual cost (determined using the first in, first out method) or market (estimated net realizable value). The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate excess or obsolete inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. We review and set standard costs quarterly to approximate current actual manufacturing costs. Our manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of actual spending over actual volumes, adjusted for excess capacity. Given the cyclicality of the market, the obsolescence of technology and product lifecycles, we write down inventory based on forecasted demand and technological obsolescence. These factors are impacted by market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product introductions and changes in strategic direction and require estimates that may include uncertain elements. The estimates of future demand that we use in the valuation of inventory are the basis for our published revenue forecasts, which are also consistent with our short term manufacturing plans. If our demand forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, we could be required to write down additional inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. 24 Impairment of Long Lived Assets Including Acquisition Related Intangibles Long lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets to be held and used are reviewed for impairment if indicators of potential impairment exist. Impairment indicators are reviewed on a quarterly basis. When indicators of impairment exist and assets are held for use, we estimate future undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets. In the event such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the recorded value of the assets, the assets are written down to their estimated fair values based on the expected discounted future cash flows attributable to the assets or based on appraisals. Factors affecting impairment of assets held for use include the ability of the specific assets to generate positive cash flows. When assets are removed from operations and held for sale, we estimate impairment losses as the excess of the carrying value of the assets over their fair value. Factors affecting impairment of assets held for sale include market conditions. Changes in any of these factors could necessitate impairment recognition in future periods for assets held for use or assets held for sale. Long lived assets such as goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant, and equipment, are considered nonfinancial assets, and are only measured at fair value when indicators of impairment exist. The accounting and disclosure provisions of SFAS 157 will not be effective for these assets until the first quarter of fiscal 2010. See Note 3. Fair Value Measurements to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. Goodwill As required by SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142), goodwill is not amortized but is subject to impairment tests on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, and goodwill is written down when it is determined to be impaired. We perform an annual impairment review in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and compare the fair value of the reporting unit in which the goodwill resides to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, the goodwill of the reporting unit is potentially impaired. For purposes of impairment testing under SFAS 142, Xilinx operates as a single reporting unit. We use the quoted market price method to determine the fair value of the reporting unit. Based on the impairment review performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, there was no impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2009. Unless there are indicators of impairment, our next impairment review for goodwill will be performed and completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. To date, no impairment indicators have been identified. Accounting for Income Taxes Xilinx is a multinational corporation operating in multiple tax jurisdictions. We must determine the allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on estimates and assumptions and apply the appropriate tax rates for these jurisdictions. We undergo routine audits by taxing authorities regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Tax audits often require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments if changes to the allocation are required between jurisdictions with different tax rates. In determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. Additionally, we must estimate the amount and likelihood of potential losses arising from audits or deficiency notices issued by taxing authorities. The taxing authorities positions and our assessment can change over time resulting in a material effect on the provision for income taxes in periods when these changes occur. We must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a reserve in the form of a valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. The Company has elected to adopt the alternative transition method provided in FSP No. FAS 123(R) 3, Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share Based Payment Awards for calculating the tax effects of stock based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R). The alternative transition method includes simplified methods to establish the beginning balance of the APIC pool related to the tax effects of employee stock based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the APIC pool and consolidated statements of cash flows of the tax effects of employee stock based compensation awards that are outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R). In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48. FIN 48 contains a two step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax 25 benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being ultimately realized. See Note 16. Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Stock Based Compensation In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we adopted SFAS 123(R), which requires the measurement at fair value and recognition of compensation expense for all stock based payment awards. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of stock based awards at the date of grant requires judgment. We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of employee stock options and rights to purchase shares under the Companys Employee Stock Purchase Plan, consistent with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). Option pricing models, including the Black Scholes model, also require the use of input assumptions, including expected stock price volatility, expected life, expected dividend rate, expected forfeiture rate and expected risk free rate of return. We use implied volatility based on traded options in the open market as we believe implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility. In determining the appropriateness of implied volatility, we considered: the volume of market activity of traded options, and determined there was sufficient market activity; the ability to reasonably match the input variables of traded options to those of options granted by the Company, such as date of grant and the exercise price, and determined the input assumptions were comparable; and the length of term of traded options used to derive implied volatility, which is generally one to two years and which was extrapolated to match the expected term of the employee options granted by the Company, and determined the length of the option term was reasonable. The expected life of options granted is based on the historical exercise activity as well as the expected disposition of all options outstanding. We will continue to review our input assumptions and make changes as deemed appropriate depending on new information that becomes available. Higher volatility and expected lives result in a proportional increase to stock based compensation determined at the date of grant. The expected dividend rate and expected risk free rate of return do not have as significant an effect on the calculation of fair value. In addition, SFAS 123(R) requires us to develop an estimate of the number of stock based awards which will be forfeited due to employee turnover. Quarterly changes in the estimated forfeiture rate have an effect on reported stock based compensation, as the effect of adjusting the rate for all expense amortization after April 1, 2006 is recognized in the period the forfeiture estimate is changed. If the actual forfeiture rate is higher than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to increase the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in a decrease to the expense recognized in the financial statements. If the actual forfeiture rate is lower than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to decrease the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in an increase to the expense recognized in the financial statements. The effect of forfeiture adjustments in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 was insignificant. The expense we recognize in future periods could also differ significantly from the current period and or our forecasts due to adjustments in the assumed forfeiture rates. Results of Operations The following table sets forth statement of income data as a percentage of net revenues for the fiscal years indicated: 2009 2008 2007 Net Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 36.7 37.3 39.0 Gross Margin 63.3 62.7 61.0 Operating Expenses: Research and development 19.5 19.4 21.1 Selling, general and administrative 18.8 19.9 20.4 Amortization of acquisition related intangibles 0.3 0.4 0.4 Restructuring charges 1.2 0.0 0.0 Litigation settlement 0.0 0.0 0.1 Stock based compensation related to prior years 0.0 0.0 0.1 Total operating expenses 39.8 39.7 42.1 Operating Income 23.5 23.0 18.9 Gain on early extinguishment of convertible debentures 6.1 0.0 0.0 Impairment loss on investments (3.0 ) (0.2 ) (0.1 ) Interest and other income, net 0.7 2.9 4.6 Income Before Income Taxes 27.3 25.7 23.4 Provision for income taxes 6.7 5.4 4.4 Net Income 20.6 % 20.3 % 19.0 % 26 Net Revenues (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Net revenues $1,825.2 (1)% $1,841.4 0% $1,842.7 The 1% decline in net revenues in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 was largely due to the recessionary environment we experienced during the fiscal year which impacted our sales across a broad base of end markets. New Product revenue increased considerably in fiscal 2009 but not enough to fully offset the declines in Base and Mainstream Products. Total unit sales declined in fiscal 2009 but average selling price per unit increased compared to the comparable prior year period. The relatively flat net revenues in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 was driven by strong customer demand for our New Products which was offset by decreased demand for our Mainstream and Base Products, particularly in the Communications and Data Processing end markets. Increased total unit sales during fiscal 2008 compared to the comparable prior year period were offset by declines in average unit selling prices, which also contributed to the flat net revenues in fiscal 2008. See Net Revenues by Product and Net Revenues by End Markets below for more information on our product and end market categories. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of net revenues for any of the periods presented. Net Revenues by Product We classify our product offerings into four categories: New, Mainstream, Base and Support Products. These product categories, excluding Support Products, are modified on a periodic basis to better reflect advances in technology. The most recent adjustment was made on July 2, 2006, which was the beginning of our second quarter of fiscal 2007. New Products, as currently defined, include our most recent product offerings and include the Virtex 5, Virtex 4, Spartan 3 and CoolRunner II product families. Mainstream Products include the Virtex II, Spartan II, CoolRunner and Virtex E product families. Mainstream products are generally several years old and designed into customer programs that are currently shipping in full production. Base Products consist of our older product families including the Virtex, Spartan, XC4000 and XC9500 products. Support Products make up the remainder of our product offerings and include configuration products, software, IP cores, customer training, design services and support. In fiscal 2010, we expect to reclassify our net revenues by product categories to better reflect the age of the products and advances in technologies. Net revenues by product categories for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: % of % % of % % of (In millions) 2009 Total Change 2008 Total Change 2007 Total New Products $ 847.9 47 40 $ 604.2 33 45 $ 416.8 23 Mainstream Products 673.0 37 (21 ) 849.8 46 (15 ) 1,004.2 54 Base Products 206.3 11 (26 ) 277.7 15 (12 ) 317.2 17 Support Products 98.0 5 (11 ) 109.7 6 5 104.5 6 Total net revenues $ 1,825.2 100 (1 ) $ 1,841.4 100 0 $ 1,842.7 100 Net revenues from New Products increased significantly in fiscal 2009 compared to the prior year period due to continued strong market acceptance of these products, primarily Virtex 5, Virtex 4 and Spartan 3E. In fiscal 2009, Virtex 5 sales nearly tripled and net revenues from our Virtex 4 and Spartan 3 product families each grew in double digits. These products, along with our CoolRunner II family of CPLDs, contributed to the majority of the revenue growth in New Products in fiscal 2008. We expect sales of New Products to continue to increase over time as more customers programs go into volume production with our 65 nm and 90 nm products. Net revenues from Mainstream Products declined in fiscal 2009 and 2008 primarily due to a decline in sales of some of our older generation products that were introduced to the market more than seven years ago. The decline in net revenues from Base Products in fiscal 2009 and 2008 was expected since these products are mature and approaching the end of life. Net revenues from Support Products decreased in fiscal 2009 compared to the prior year period primarily due to a decline in sales from our PROM products. Net revenues from Support Products increased in fiscal 2008 due to modest increases in sales from our software products. 27 Net Revenues by End Markets Our end market revenue data is derived from our understanding of our end customers primary markets. We classify our net revenues by end markets into four categories: Communications, Industrial and Other, Consumer and Automotive, and Data Processing. The percentage change calculation in the table below represents the year to year dollar change in each end market. Net revenues by end markets for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: % Change % Change (% of total net revenues) 2009 in Dollars 2008 in Dollars 2007 Communications 44 % 1 43 % (5 ) 45 % Industrial and Other 32 1 32 11 29 Consumer and Automotive 16 (6 ) 17 4 16 Data Processing 8 (9 ) 8 (14 ) 10 Total net revenues 100 % (1 ) 100 % 0 100 % Net revenues from Communications, our largest end market, increased in fiscal 2009 compared to the prior year period primarily due to the strength in wireless communication applications. Sales to customers in the wireless space were particularly strong during fiscal 2009 as a result of next generation wireless activity in China. In fiscal 2008, net revenues from Communications decreased primarily due to decreased sales from wireless communication applications, much of which was driven by merger and consolidation activity in that market. Net revenues from the Industrial and Other end market increased in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period due to strong sales growth from aerospace and defense and industrial, scientific and medical applications. However, this growth was offset considerably by weakness in test and measurement applications. In fiscal 2008, net revenues from the Industrial and Other end market increased due to broad based strength across all applications including defense, industrial, scientific and medical and test and measurement. Net revenues from the Consumer and Automotive end market decreased in fiscal 2009 from the comparable prior year due to weaker sales from audio, video and broadcast and automotive applications, which was partially offset by an increase in sales from consumer applications. In fiscal 2008, net revenues from the Consumer and Automotive end market increased primarily due to strength in automotive applications. The decrease in net revenues from the Data Processing end market in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period was mainly driven by decreases in sales from computing and data processing applications. In fiscal 2008, net revenues from the Data Processing end market declined due to decreases in sales from storage as well as computing and data processing applications. Net Revenues by Geography Geographic revenue information reflects the geographic location of the distributors or OEMs who purchased our products. This may differ from the geographic location of the end customers. Net revenues by geography for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: % of % % of % % of (In millions) 2009 Total Change 2008 Total Change 2007 Total North America $ 627.7 34 (13 ) $ 717.8 39 (2 ) $ 731.3 40 Asia Pacific 603.0 33 15 526.3 29 13 466.6 25 Europe 411.6 23 1 407.2 22 (5 ) 426.9 23 Japan 182.9 10 (4 ) 190.1 10 (13 ) 217.9 12 Total net revenues $ 1,825.2 100 (1 ) $ 1,841.4 100 0 $ 1,842.7 100 Net revenues in North America decreased in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period primarily due to lower sales from the Communications end market. The decrease in net revenues during fiscal 2008 was driven primarily by a decline in sales from wireless communications as well as data processing applications. Net revenues in Asia Pacific increased in double digits during fiscal 2009, driven by strength in the Communications end market, primarily from next generation wireless applications in China. The increase in net revenues in fiscal 2008 was due to broad based end market strength, with particular strength coming from customers in the Communications and Industrial and Other end markets. Asia Pacific sales continued to benefit from outsourcing of manufacturing operations by large U.S. and European based customers to the Asia Pacific region. Net revenues in Europe increased in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period primarily due to strength in wireless communication applications. Net revenues decreased in fiscal 2008 primarily due to lower sales from wireless communication applications. 28 Net revenues in Japan decreased in fiscal 2009 compared to the same period last year due to broad based weakness across most end market categories with the exception of the Consumer and Automotive end market. The fiscal 2008 decline was due to broad based weakness across all end market categories. Gross Margin (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Gross margin $1,156.0 0% $1,154.4 3% $1,124.1 Percentage of net revenues 63.3% 62.7% 61.0% The increase in the gross margin percentage in fiscal 2009 from the comparable prior year period was driven primarily by product cost reductions, higher average selling prices per unit, stabilization of our New Products and improved operational efficiency. The increase in the gross margin percentage in fiscal 2008 from the comparable prior year period was driven primarily by product cost reductions and improved operational efficiency. This favorable impact was partially offset by the product mix effect of New Product growth year over year. New Products generally have lower gross margins than Mainstream and Base Products in the early product life cycle due to higher unit costs resulting from lower yields. As a percentage of total net revenues, New Product sales increased by approximately 10% from fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2008. Gross margin may be affected in the future due to mix shifts, competitive pricing pressure, manufacturing yield issues and wafer pricing. We expect to mitigate any adverse impacts from these factors by continuing to improve yields on our New Products and by improving manufacturing efficiencies. Sales of inventory previously written off were not material during fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007. In order to compete effectively, we pass manufacturing cost reductions on to our customers in the form of reduced prices to the extent that we can maintain acceptable margins. Price erosion is common in the semiconductor industry, as advances in both product architecture and manufacturing process technology permit continual reductions in unit cost. We have historically been able to offset much of this revenue decline in our mature products with increased revenues from newer products. Research and Development (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Research and development $355.4 (1)% $358.1 (8)% $388.1 Percentage of net revenues 19% 19% 21% R&D spending decreased $2.7 million or 1% during fiscal 2009 compared to the same period last year. The decrease was attributable to lower mask and wafer spending and reduced stock based compensation expense, which was partially offset by increased outside services to support our investments in new product development. R&D spending decreased $30.0 million or 8% during fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. The decrease was primarily due to reduced stock based compensation expense and lower mask and wafer spending, coupled with lower cost related to our R&D center in India. We plan to continue to selectively invest in R&D efforts in areas such as new products and more advanced process development, IP cores and the development of new design and layout software. We will also consider acquisitions to complement our strategy for technology leadership and engineering resources in critical areas. Selling, General and Administrative (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Selling, general and administrative $343.8 (6)% $365.3 (3)% $375.5 Percentage of net revenues 19% 20% 20% SG&A expenses decreased $21.5 million or 6% during fiscal 2009 compared to the same period last year. The decrease was primarily due to headcount reduction as a result of a functional reorganization, lower sales commissions and lower stock based compensation expense, which was partially offset by higher litigation costs. 29 SG&A expenses decreased $10.2 million or 3% during fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. The decrease was attributable to lower stock based compensation expense, reduced discretionary spending and lower sales commissions. The reductions in discretionary spending included consulting, travel and marketing expenses. Amortization of Acquisition Related Intangibles (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Amortization of acquisition related intangibles $5.3 (22)% $6.8 (15)% $8.0 Amortization expense was related to the intangible assets acquired from prior acquisitions. Amortization expense for these intangible assets decreased for fiscal 2009 from the same period last year, due to the complete amortization of certain intangible assets in fiscal 2008. Amortization expense for these intangible assets decreased for fiscal 2008 from fiscal 2007, due to the complete amortization of certain intangible assets in fiscal 2007. We expect amortization of acquisition related intangibles to be approximately $1.5 million for fiscal 2010 compared with $5.3 million for fiscal 2009. Restructuring Charges In June 2008, we announced a functional reorganization pursuant to which we eliminated 249 positions, or approximately 7% of our global workforce. These employee terminations occurred across various geographies and functions worldwide. The reorganization plan was completed by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2009. We recorded total restructuring charges of $22.0 million in connection with the reorganization. These charges consisted of $19.5 million of severance pay and benefits expenses which were recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and $2.5 million of facility related costs and severance benefits expenses which were recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. The following table summarizes the restructuring accrual activity for fiscal 2009: Employee Facility severance and related (In millions) benefits costs Total Balance as of March 29, 2008 $ $ $ Accruals during the period 20.5 1.5 22.0 Cash payments (20.0 ) (0.6 ) (20.6 ) Non cash settlements (0.5 ) (0.2 ) (0.7 ) Balance as of March 28, 2009 $ $ 0.7 $ 0.7 The charges above have been shown separately as restructuring charges on the consolidated statements of income. The remaining accrual as of March 28, 2009 relates to facility related costs that are expected to be paid over the remaining lease terms of the closed facilities expiring at various dates through December 2012. We estimate that severance and benefits expenses incurred to date will result in gross annual savings of approximately $35.0 million, including approximately $30.0 million of cash savings before taxes and approximately $5.0 million of stock based compensation expense. We began realizing the majority of these savings, primarily within the SG&A and R&D expense categories, beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. There can be no assurance that these expected future savings will be completely realized as they may be partially offset by increases in other expenses. See Note 21. Subsequent Events to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for information relating to a restructuring announced on April 15, 2009. Litigation Settlement On November 27, 2006, the Company settled a patent infringement lawsuit under which the Company agreed to pay $6.5 million. The plaintiff agreed to dismiss the patent infringement lawsuit with prejudice, granted a patent license to the Company and executed an agreement not to sue the Company under any patent owned or controlled by the plaintiff for ten years. As a result of the settlement agreement, we recorded a current period charge of $2.5 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2007. The remaining balance of $4.0 million represented the value of the prepaid patent license granted as part of the settlement. This balance is being amortized over the patents remaining useful life of nine years. 30 Stock Based Compensation (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Stock based compensation included in: Cost of revenues $ 5.8 (24 )% $ 7.6 (26 )% $ 10.4 Research and development 25.0 (20 )% 31.4 (24 )% 41.6 Selling, general and administrative 23.1 (16 )% 27.4 (29 )% 38.3 Restructuring charges 0.6 Stock based compensation related to prior years 2.2 $ 54.5 (18 )% $ 66.4 (28 )% $ 92.5 The $11.9 million decrease in stock based compensation expense for fiscal 2009 was due to a decrease in the number of shares granted, declining weighted average fair values of stock awards vesting and an increase in the number of shares cancelled due to the June 2008 restructuring. The $26.1 million decrease in stock based compensation expense for fiscal 2008 was due to a decrease in the number of shares granted, declining weighted average fair values of stock awards vesting and lower expense related to a methodology change from accelerated to straight line amortization in connection with the adoption of SFAS 123(R). Total stock based compensation expense during fiscal 2007 related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) was $90.3 million, excluding one time expense of $2.2 million relating to prior years under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations, using the intrinsic value method. In June 2006, stockholder derivative complaints were filed against the Company concerning the Companys historical option granting practices and the SEC initiated an informal inquiry on the matter. An investigation of the Companys historical stock option granting practices was conducted by outside counsel and no evidence of fraud, management misconduct or manipulation in the timing or exercise price of stock option grants was found. The investigation determined that in nearly all cases, stock options were issued as of pre set dates; however, there were some minor differences between the recorded grant dates and measurement dates for certain grants made between 1997 and 2006. As a result, a $2.2 million charge was taken to the Companys earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Subsequently the SEC informal inquiry was terminated and no enforcement action was recommended and the stockholder derivative complaints were dismissed. The income tax effect of the charge resulted in a benefit of $650 thousand, which was recorded to income tax expense. The Company assessed the implications of applicable income tax rules that may affect the Company. The tax benefit recorded is net of such potential costs. Gain on Early Extinguishment of Convertible Debentures In the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009, we paid $193.2 million in cash to repurchase $310.4 million (principal amount) of our debentures and recognized a gain on early extinguishment of convertible debentures of $110.6 million, net of the write off of the pro rata portions of unamortized debt issuance costs ($5.8 million) and unamortized derivative valuation ($736 thousand). Accrued interest paid at the time of repurchases totaled $2.4 million. Impairment Loss on Investments (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Impairment loss on investments $54.1 1,799% $2.9 46% $2.0 Percentage of net revenues 3% 0% 0% During fiscal 2009, we recorded total impairment losses related to senior class asset backed securities of $38.0 million, which represented the original purchase price of these securities, excluding accrued interest. The senior class asset backed securities were partially written off in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 due to default by the issuer in October 2008. At the time of the initial write off of $19.8 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we understood, based on the issuers prospectus disclosures that investors would be repaid proportionally and without preference. In October 2008, the issuer went into receivership. The receiver subsequently sought judicial interpretation of a provision of a legal document governing the issuers securities. As a result of the outcome of the judicial determination, the receiver immediately liquidated the substantial majority of the issuers assets, and in accordance with the court order, the proceeds were used to repay short term liabilities in the order in which they fell due. In December 2008, the receiver reported to the issuers creditors the outcome of the judicial determination and that the issuers liabilities substantially exceeded its assets. As a result, the receiver estimated that the issuer would not be able to pay any liabilities falling due after October 2008 regardless of the seniority or status of the securities. Our investments in these senior class asset backed securities mature in September 2009 and September 2010. Based on these new developments, we concluded that we are not likely to recover the 31 During the second quarter of fiscal 2009, the issuer of one of the marketable debt securities in our investment portfolio filed for bankruptcy resulting in a significant decline in the fair value of this security. The original purchase price of this security, excluding accrued interest, was $10.0 million. Based upon the available market and financial data for the issuer, the decline in market value was deemed to be other than temporary and we recorded impairment losses of $9.0 million, including $8.4 million in the second quarter and $600 thousand in the third quarter of fiscal 2009. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we recognized an additional impairment loss of $1.0 million on marketable debt securities in our investment portfolio. During fiscal 2009, we recognized a $3.1 million impairment loss as a result of a continuous decline that began in fiscal 2008 in the market value of our investment in a marketable equity security. We believed that the decline in the market value was other than temporary and it was deemed to be worthless as of September 27, 2008. We recognized an impairment loss on our investment in this marketable equity security during the first and second quarters of fiscal 2009. We recorded impairment losses of $3.0 million, $2.9 million and $2.0 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to our investment in non marketable equity securities in private companies. These impairment losses resulted primarily from weak financial conditions of certain investees, certain investees diluting our investment through the receipt of additional rounds of investment at a lower valuation or from the liquidation of certain investees. Interest and Other Income, Net (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Interest and other income, net $12.2 (77)% $52.7 (38)% $85.3 Percentage of net revenues 1% 3% 5% The decrease in interest and other income, net in fiscal 2009 over the prior year was due primarily to a decrease in interest rates and a smaller investment portfolio. The average interest rate yield decreased by approximately 200 basis points (two percentage points) year over year. The decrease in interest and other income, net in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007 was due to the interest expense ($32.0 million) related to the debentures issued in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 as well as a loss of approximately $4.7 million from the sale of the Companys remaining UMC investment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in interest income of $13.6 million in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007 due to higher yields resulting from investing in taxable securities and a larger investment portfolio. See Note 12. Interest and Other Income, Net to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Provision for Income Taxes (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Provision for income taxes $122.5 22% $100.0 24% $80.5 Percentage of net revenues 7% 5% 4% Effective tax rate 25% 21% 19% The effective tax rates in all years reflected the favorable impact of foreign income at statutory rates less than the U.S. rate and tax credits earned. The increase in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2009, when compared with fiscal 2008, was primarily due to the gain on early extinguishment of debentures taxable at U.S. tax rates. The increase was partially offset by the benefit of retroactive extension of the research credit in fiscal 2009. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 was signed into law. This legislation extended the federal research credit through the end of calendar 2009. The increase in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2008, when compared with fiscal 2007, was primarily due to items unique to fiscal 2007 reducing the rates for the prior year period. The IRS examined the Companys tax returns for fiscal 1996 through 2001. All issues have been settled with the exception of issues related to Xilinx U.S.s cost sharing arrangement with Xilinx Ireland. On August 30, 2005, the Tax Court issued its opinion concerning whether the value of stock options must be included in the cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Tax Court agreed with the Company that no amount for stock options was to be included in the cost sharing agreement. Accordingly, there were no additional taxes, penalties or interest due for this issue. The Tax Court entered its decision on May 31, 2006. On August 25, 2006, the IRS appealed the decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. On May 27, 2009, the Company received a 2 1 adverse judicial ruling from the Appeals Court reversing the Tax Court decision and holding that the Company should include stock option amounts in its cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Company does not agree with the Appeals Court decision and is reviewing its alternatives as a result of the decision. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings included in Part I and Note 16. Income Taxes, Note 18. Litigation Settlements and Contingencies, and Note 21. Subsequent Events to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 32 Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources We have historically used a combination of cash flows from operations and equity and debt financing to support ongoing business activities, acquire or invest in critical or complementary technologies, purchase facilities and capital equipment, repurchase our common stock and debentures under our repurchase program, pay dividends and finance working capital. Additionally, our investments in debt securities are available for future sale. Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short term and Long term Investments The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short term and long term investments as of March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008 totaled $1.67 billion and $1.86 billion, respectively. As of March 28, 2009, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.32 billion and working capital of $1.52 billion. Cash provided by operations of $442.5 million for fiscal 2009 was $138.5 million lower than the $581.0 million generated during fiscal 2008. Cash provided by operations during fiscal 2009 resulted primarily from net income as adjusted for non cash related items, an increase in deferred income taxes and a decrease in accounts receivable, which were partially offset by decreases in accrued liabilities and deferred income on shipments to distributors. Net cash provided by investing activities was $274.5 million during fiscal 2009, as compared to $192.0 million in fiscal 2008. Net cash provided by investing activities during fiscal 2009 consisted of $314.4 million of net proceeds from the sale and maturity of available for sale securities. These items were partially offset by $39.1 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment (see further discussion below) and $793 thousand of other investing activities. Net cash used in financing activities was $518.1 million in fiscal 2009, as compared to $541.9 million in fiscal 2008. Net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2009 consisted of $193.2 million for the repurchase of debentures, $275.0 million for the repurchase of common stock and $154.5 million for dividend payments to stockholders. These items were partially offset by $99.8 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and $4.8 million for excess tax benefits from stock based compensation. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful accounts, customer returns and distributor pricing adjustments decreased 13% from $249.1 million at the end of fiscal 2008 to $216.4 million at the end of fiscal 2009. Days sales outstanding decreased to 43 days as of March 28, 2009 from 49 days as of March 29, 2008. The decreases were primarily attributable to a decrease in net shipments and weaker linearity of shipments at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 compared to the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Inventories Inventories decreased from $130.3 million as of March 29, 2008 to $119.8 million as of March 28, 2009. The combined inventory days at Xilinx and distribution channel decreased to 80 days as of March 28, 2009, compared to 94 days as of March 29, 2008. The decreases were primarily due to lower inventory at Xilinx and in the distributor channel as a result of declining revenues due to lower anticipated demand and more effective inventory management processes. We attempt to maintain sufficient levels of inventory in various product, package and speed configurations in order to keep lead times short and to meet forecasted customer demand. Conversely, we also attempt to minimize the handling costs associated with maintaining higher inventory levels and to fully realize the opportunities for cost reductions associated with architecture and manufacturing process advancements. We continually strive to balance these two objectives to provide excellent customer response at a competitive cost. Property, Plant and Equipment During fiscal 2009, we invested $39.1 million in property, plant and equipment compared to $45.6 million in fiscal 2008. Primary investments in fiscal 2009 were for building improvements, test equipment, computer equipment and software. We expect that property, plant and equipment expenditures will decrease in the near future due to expense controls and the current recessionary economic environment. 33 Current Liabilities Current liabilities decreased from $340.7 million at the end of fiscal 2008 to $233.1 million at the end of fiscal 2009. The decrease was primarily due to the decreases in income taxes payable and deferred income on shipments to distributors. The decrease in deferred income on shipments to distributors was due to a decrease in distributor inventories as of March 28, 2009 compared to the prior year. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity increased $66.1 million during fiscal 2009, from $1.67 billion in fiscal 2008 to $1.74 billion in fiscal 2009. The increase in stockholders equity was attributable to net income of $375.6 million for fiscal 2009, the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and other of $96.4 million, stock based compensation related amounts totaling $54.1 million and the related tax benefits associated with stock option exercises and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan of $4.2 million. The increases were partially offset by the repurchase of common stock of $275.0 million, the payment of dividends to stockholders of $154.5 million, an adjustment to the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 of $10.1 million, unrealized losses on available for sale securities, net of deferred tax benefits, of $14.9 million, cumulative translation adjustment of $7.7 million and unrealized hedging transaction losses totaling $2.0 million. Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short term and Long term Investments The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short term and long term investments as of March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007 totaled $1.86 billion and $1.81 billion, respectively. As of March 29, 2008, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.30 billion and working capital of $1.48 billion. Cash provided by operations of $581.0 million for fiscal 2008 was $29.4 million higher than the $551.6 million generated during fiscal 2007. Cash provided by operations during fiscal 2008 resulted primarily from net income as adjusted for non cash related items, decreases in inventories and prepaid expenses and increases in income taxes payable and deferred income on shipments to distributors which were partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable. The decrease in prepaid expenses in fiscal 2008 was primarily related to the utilization of the advance wafer purchase payment paid to Toshiba. In October 2004, we entered into an advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba under which the Company paid Toshiba a total of $100.0 million for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement, which expired in December 2006 and was extended until December 2008. The entire advance payment of $100.0 million was reduced by wafer purchases from Toshiba. As of March 29, 2008, the unused balance of the advance payment remaining was $4.5 million. Net cash provided by investing activities was $192.0 million during fiscal 2008, as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $283.8 million in fiscal 2007. Net cash provided by investing activities during fiscal 2008 consisted of $232.2 million of net proceeds from the sale and maturity of available for sale securities, including $47.1 million of net proceeds from the sale of the remaining UMC investment, and a distribution from UMC of $10.7 million. These items were partially offset by $45.6 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment (see further discussion below) and $5.3 million of other investing activities. Net cash used in financing activities was $541.9 million in fiscal 2008, as compared to $415.3 million in fiscal 2007. Net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2008 consisted of $550.0 million for the repurchase of common stock and $140.0 million for dividend payments to stockholders. These items were partially offset by $125.6 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and $22.5 million for excess tax benefits from stock based compensation. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful accounts, customer returns and distributor pricing adjustments increased 37% from $182.3 million at the end of fiscal 2007 to $249.1 million at the end of fiscal 2008. Days sales outstanding increased to 49 days as of March 29, 2008 from 36 days as of March 31, 2007. The increases were primarily attributable to the timing of payments from customers, credit issuance and the timing of shipments during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Inventories Inventories decreased from $174.6 million as of March 31, 2007 to $130.3 million as of March 29, 2008. The combined inventory days at Xilinx and distribution channel decreased to 94 days as of March 29, 2008, compared to 112 days as of March 31, 2007. The decreases were primarily due to improved forecasting accuracy and fewer inventory mix issues. 34 Property, Plant and Equipment During fiscal 2008, we invested $45.6 million in property, plant and equipment compared to $110.8 million in fiscal 2007. Primary investments in fiscal 2008 were for computer equipment, software, test equipment, and building and leasehold improvements. The decrease in fiscal 2008 was primarily attributable to the accumulated construction costs incurred in fiscal 2007 in connection with our Asia Pacific regional headquarters building in Singapore, which was completed in June 2007, and the purchase in February 2007 of a parcel of land for $28.6 million near our headquarters in San Jose for future potential growth purposes, neither of which was repeated in fiscal 2008. We do not intend to build on the land for the foreseeable future. Current Liabilities Current liabilities increased from $303.4 million at the end of fiscal 2007 to $340.7 million at the end of fiscal 2008. The increase was primarily due to the increases in deferred income on shipments to distributors and accrued payroll and related liabilities, which were partially offset by the decrease in accounts payable. The increase in deferred income on shipments to distributors was due to an increase in distributor inventories at March 29, 2008 compared to the prior year. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity decreased $100.9 million during fiscal 2008, from $1.77 billion in fiscal 2007 to $1.67 billion in fiscal 2008. The decrease in stockholders equity was attributable to the repurchase of common stock of $550.0 million, the payment of dividends to stockholders of $140.0 million and unrealized losses on available for sale securities, net of deferred tax benefits, of $1.8 million. The decreases were partially offset by net income of $374.0 million for fiscal 2008, the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans of $124.7 million, stock based compensation related amounts totaling $65.8 million, the related tax benefits associated with stock option exercises and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan of $15.8 million, the effect of the adoption of FIN 48 totaling $6.5 million, cumulative translation adjustment of $3.1 million and hedging transaction gains totaling $1.0 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash generated from operations is used as our primary source of liquidity and capital resources. Our investment portfolio is also available for future cash requirements as is our $250.0 million revolving credit facility entered into in April 2007. We are not aware of any lack of access to the revolving credit facility; however, we can provide no assurance that access to the credit facility will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. Our credit facility is not reliant upon a single bank. There have been no borrowings to date under our existing revolving credit facility. We also have a shelf registration on file with the SEC pursuant to which we may offer an indeterminate amount of debt, equity and other securities in the future to augment our liquidity and capital resources. We used $275.0 million of cash to repurchase 10.8 million shares of our common stock in fiscal 2009 compared with $550.0 million used to repurchase 23.5 million shares in fiscal 2008. In addition, during fiscal 2009, we paid $193.2 million of cash to repurchase $310.4 million (principal amount) of our debentures resulting in a net gain on early extinguishment of debentures of $110.6 million. During fiscal 2009, we paid $154.5 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing an aggregate amount of $0.56 per common share. During fiscal 2008, we paid $140.0 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing an aggregate amount of $0.48 per common share. In addition, on April 21, 2009, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.14 per common share for the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The dividend is payable on June 3, 2009 to stockholders of record on May 13, 2009. Our common stock and debentures repurchase program and dividend policy could be impacted by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements relating to R&D, investments and acquisitions, legal risks, principal and interest payments on our debentures and other strategic investments. The global credit crisis has imposed exceptional levels of volatility and disruption in the capital markets, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, and increased counterparty risk. Nevertheless, we anticipate that existing sources of liquidity and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future. We will continue to evaluate opportunities for investments to obtain additional wafer capacity, procurement of additional capital equipment and facilities, development of new products, and potential acquisitions of technologies or businesses that could complement our business. However, the risk factors discussed in Item 1A included in Part I and below could affect our cash positions adversely. In addition, certain types of investments such as asset backed securities may present risks arising from liquidity and or credit concerns. In the event that our investments in auction rate securities and senior class asset backed securities become illiquid, we do not expect this will materially affect our liquidity and capital resources or results of operations. As of March 28, 2009, marketable securities measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs were comprised of $58.4 million of student loan auction rate securities and $36.5 million of asset backed securities within our available for sale investment portfolio. The amount of assets and liabilities measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) as a percentage of the total assets and liabilities measured at fair value was less than 6% as of March 28, 2009. See Note 3. Fair Value Measurements to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. Auction failures 35 during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and the lack of market activity and liquidity required that our student loan auction rate securities be measured using observable market data and Level 3 inputs. The fair values of our student loan auction rate securities were based on our assessment of the underlying collateral and the creditworthiness of the issuers of the securities. More than 98% of the underlying assets that secure the student loan auction rate securities are pools of student loans originated under FFELP that are substantially guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Education. The fair values of our student loan auction rate securities were determined using a discounted cash flow pricing model that incorporated financial inputs such as projected cash flows, discount rates, expected interest rates to be paid to investors and an estimated liquidity discount. The weighted average life over which cash flows were projected was determined to be approximately nine years, given the collateral composition of the securities. The discount rates that were applied to the pricing model were based on market data and information for comparable or similar term student loan asset backed securities. The discount rates increased by approximately 215 to 300 basis points (2.15 and 3.00 percentage points) in fiscal 2009 due to a widening of credit spreads and increased liquidity discount as a result of the global credit crisis noted above. The expected interest rate to be paid to investors in a failed auction was determined by the contractual terms for each security. The liquidity discount represents an estimate of the additional return an investor would require to compensate for the lack of liquidity of the student loan auction rate securities. We have the ability and intent to hold the student loan auction rate securities until anticipated recovery, which could be at final maturity that ranges from March 2023 to November 2047. All of the Companys student loan auction rate securities are rated AAA with the exception of $8.1 million that were downgraded to A rating during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Our $36.5 million of senior class asset backed securities are secured primarily by bank, finance and insurance company obligations, collateralized loan and bank obligations, credit card debt and mortgage backed securities with no direct U.S. subprime mortgage exposure. The $36.5 million of senior class asset backed securities were measured using observable market data and Level 3 inputs due to the lack of market activity and liquidity. The fair values of these senior class asset backed securities were based on our assessment of the underlying collateral and the creditworthiness of the issuers of the securities. We determined the fair values for the $36.5 million of senior class asset backed securities by using prices from pricing services that could not be corroborated by observable market data. We corroborated the prices from the pricing services using comparable benchmark indexes and securities prices. We have the ability and intent to hold the $36.5 million of senior class asset backed securities until final maturity in November 2009. The $36.5 million of senior class asset backed securities were downgraded by at least one credit rating agency during the past two fiscal quarters and are currently rated or split rated between AAA and BBB rating. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of March 28, 2009 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. This table excludes amounts already recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as current liabilities as of March 28, 2009. Payments Due by Period Less than More than Total 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years 5 years (In millions) Operating lease obligations (1) $ 22.8 $ 8.9 $ 8.4 $ 3.0 $ 2.5 Inventory and other purchase obligations (2) 46.5 46.5 Electronic design automation software licenses (3) 19.7 10.4 9.3 Intellectual property license rights obligations (4) 5.0 5.0 3.125% convertible debentures principal and interest (5) 1,293.1 21.6 43.1 43.1 1,185.3 Total $ 1,387.1 $ 87.4 $ 60.8 $ 46.1 $ 1,192.8 (1) We lease some of our facilities, office buildings and land under non cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through November 2035. Rent expense, net of rental income, under all operating leases was approximately $9.2 million for fiscal 2009. See Note 10. Commitments to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about operating leases. (2) Due to the nature of our business, we depend entirely upon subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and some test services. The lengthy subcontractor lead times require us to order the materials and services in advance, and we are obligated to pay for the materials and services when completed. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services in the next three to six months, as the products meet delivery and quality specifications. (3) As of March 28, 2009, the Company had $19.7 million of non cancelable license obligations to providers of electronic design automation software and hardware/software maintenance expiring at various dates through September 2011. 36 (4) In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company committed up to $20.0 million to acquire, in the future, rights to intellectual property until July 2023. This commitment was reduced to $5.0 million in May 2009. License payments will be amortized over the useful life of the intellectual property acquired. (5) In March 2007, the Company issued $1.00 billion principal amount of 3.125% debentures due March 15, 2037. As a result of the repurchases in fiscal 2009, the remaining carrying value of the debentures on the Companys consolidated balance sheet as of March 28, 2009 was $690.1 million. The debentures require payment of interest at an annual rate of 3.125% payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning September 15, 2007. For purposes of this table we have assumed the principal of our debentures will be paid on March 15, 2037. See Note 14. Convertible Debentures and Revolving Credit Facility to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about our debentures. As of March 28, 2009, $80.7 million of FIN 48 liabilities and related interest and penalties were classified as long term income taxes payable in the consolidated balance sheet. Due to the inherent uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash outflows associated with our FIN 48 liabilities as of March 28, 2009, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority. Therefore, FIN 48 liabilities have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 28, 2009, we did not have any significant off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Concentrations of Risk to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for information about recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.24 billion as of March 28, 2009. Our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. Our investment portfolio includes municipal bonds, floating rate notes, mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate bonds, student loan auction rate securities and U.S. and foreign government and agency securities. In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuers credit rating. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. A hypothetical 100 basis point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by less than $6.0 million and $9.0 million, respectively. Credit Market Risk Since September 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non investment grade securities. The global credit and capital markets have recently experienced further significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system and the current uncertainty related to global economic conditions. As a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that we may incur additional other than temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration. See Note 4. Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about our investments. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained and the hedged relationship has been effective, are deferred and included in income or expenses in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. Gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the consolidated statements of income as they are incurred. 37 We enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our overseas operating expenses and other liabilities when deemed appropriate. As of March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008, we had the following outstanding forward currency exchange contracts: (In thousands and U.S. dollars) March 28, March 29, 2009 2008 Euro $ 51,072 $ 18,616 Singapore dollar 30,123 11,938 Japanese Yen 12,563 5,364 British Pound 6,408 3,022 $ 100,166 $ 38,940 Effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, as part of our strategy to reduce volatility of operating expenses due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, we expanded our hedging program from a one quarter forward outlook to a five quarter forward outlook for major foreign currency denominated operating expenses. The contracts expire at various dates between April 2009 and April 2010. The net unrealized gain or loss, which approximates the fair market value of the above contracts, was immaterial as of March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008. Our investments in several of our wholly owned subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As the financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the U.S. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments. These fluctuations are recorded within stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Other foreign denominated assets and liabilities are revalued on a monthly basis with gains and losses on revaluation reflected in net income. A hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates at March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008 would have affected the annualized foreign currency denominated operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries by less than $8.0 million and $15.0 million, respectively. In addition, a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008 would have affected the value of foreign currency denominated cash and investments by less than $6.0 million as of each date. 38 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and to Note 17. Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. This annual report includes trademarks and service marks of Xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and registered in the United States and other countries. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Companys management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. If any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. General economic conditions and the related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Global consumer confidence has eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations, among other concerns. These concerns have slowed global economic growth and have resulted in recessions in numerous countries, including many of those in North America, Europe and Asia. Recent economic conditions had a negative impact on our results of operations during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009 due to reduced customer demand and it is unclear when economic conditions will improve. As these economic conditions continue to persist, or if they worsen, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, which could result in production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. Any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability. The semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry, including the current downturn. Down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. Weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write downs. We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Due to these and other factors, our past results are much less reliable predictors of the future than for companies in older, more stable industries. The nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers products and those products achieving market acceptance. Due to the complexity of our customers designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. In addition, we are increasingly dependent upon turns, orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter, and we have historically derived a significant portion of our quarterly revenue during the last weeks of the quarter. These factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. The difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted in inventory write downs or failure to timely meet customer product demands. In addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward looking revenue and earnings guidance. Global economic conditions, the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could have a material adverse affect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to our U.S. operations, we also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, our regional headquarters in Ireland and Singapore and a research and development site in India. In connection with the restructuring we announced in April 2009, we expect our international operations to grow as we relocate certain operations and administrative functions. Sales and operations outside of the U.S. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. The Company derives over one half of its revenues from international sales, 12 primarily in the Asia Pacific region, Europe and Japan. Past and current economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues. The timing and nature of economic recovery in these markets as well as in the U.S. remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that global market conditions will improve in the near future. Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. While the recent movement of the Euro and Yen against the U.S. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our European and Japanese customers. Currency instability and recent volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital markets may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers ability to repay existing obligations. Increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign currency denominated costs, assets and liabilities. In addition, devaluation of the U.S. dollar relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. Furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political instability, terrorist activity or U.S. military actions could impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our cash, short term and long term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and financial market conditions. Since September 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non investment grade securities. The global credit and capital markets have recently experienced further significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system and the current uncertainty related to global economic conditions. As of March 28, 2009, less than 7% of our $1.58 billion investment portfolio consisted of asset backed securities and approximately 11% of the portfolio consisted of mortgage backed securities. Asset backed securities consisted of student loan auction rate securities and other asset backed securities. Approximately 4% of our investment portfolio consisted of student loan auction rate securities and all of these securities are rated AAA with the exception of approximately 14% that were downgraded to A rating during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. More than 98% of the underlying assets that secure the student loan auction rate securities are pools of student loans originated under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) that are substantially guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Education. These securities experienced failed auctions in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 due to liquidity issues in the global credit markets. In a failed auction, the interest rates are reset to a maximum rate defined by the contractual terms for each security. We have collected and expect to collect all interest payable on these securities when due. During fiscal 2009, $1.4 million of these student loan auction rate securities were redeemed for cash by the issuers at par value. Beginning with the quarter ended March 29, 2008, the student loan auction rate securities were reclassified from short term to long term investments on the consolidated balance sheets since there can be no assurance of a successful auction in the future. The final maturity dates range from March 2023 to November 2047. All other asset backed securities comprised less than 3% of our investment portfolio as of March 28, 2009, of which approximately 9% are AAA rated with the majority of the rest of the asset backed securities rated A or BBB. These asset backed securities are secured primarily by bank, finance and insurance company obligations, collateralized loan and bank obligations, credit card debt and mortgage backed securities with no direct U.S. subprime mortgage exposure. Substantially all of the other mortgage backed securities in the investment portfolio are AAA rated, were issued by U.S. government sponsored enterprises and agencies and represented approximately 11% of the investment portfolio as of March 28, 2009. As a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that we may incur additional other than temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated due to the continued or worsening global economic conditions. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities is judged to be other than temporary. Furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. See Note 4. Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for a table of our available for sale securities. We are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the U.S. which could adversely affect our business. In addition to international sales and support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries and have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the U.S. In connection with the restructuring we announced in April 2009, we expect these subcontractor activities to increase. All of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including tax laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, foreign governmental regulations, reduced protection for IP, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and or operating results. Additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in 13 countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. Adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: timely completion of new product designs; ability to generate new design opportunities or design wins; availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 65nm and smaller; achieving acceptable yields; ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors; ability to obtain advanced packaging; availability of supporting software design tools; utilization of predefined IP cores of logic; customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and market acceptance of our customers products. Our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. Revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. As a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. We rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are dependent on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations. During fiscal 2009, nearly all of our wafers were manufactured either in Taiwan, by UMC or in Japan, by Toshiba or Seiko. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between Xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short term agreements that do not provide for long term supply or allocation commitments. We are dependent on these foundries, especially UMC, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. We rely on UMC to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. These attributes include an ability to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. We cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products. In addition, current economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. The insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We have established other sources of wafer supply for our products in an effort to secure a continued supply of wafers. However, establishing, maintaining and managing multiple foundry relationships requires the investment of management resources as well as additional costs. If we do not manage these relationships effectively, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. If greater demand for wafers produced by the foundries is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, or market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. Such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities. Such 14 increases in wafer prices or materials could adversely affect our gross margins and shortages of wafers and materials would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands. Earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. The independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our California and Singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. UMCs foundries in Taiwan and Toshibas and Seikos foundries in Japan as well as many of our operations in California are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters. Any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities. This type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. Any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. In addition, current economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. These factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to successfully compete in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected. Our PLDs compete in the logic IC industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. We expect increased competition from our primary PLD competitors, Altera, Lattice and Actel, from the ASIC market, which has been ongoing since the inception of FPGAs, from the ASSP market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. We believe that important competitive factors in the logic IC industry include: product pricing; time to market; product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; field upgradability; adaptability of products to specific applications; ease of use and functionality of software design tools; availability and functionality of predefined IP cores of logic; inventory management; access to leading edge process technology and assembly capacity; and ability to provide timely customer service and support. Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high volume, low cost and low power applications as well as high performance, high density applications. In addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. However, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies. Other competitors include manufacturers of: high density programmable logic products characterized by FPGA type architectures; high volume and low cost FPGAs as programmable replacements for ASICs and ASSPs; ASICs and ASSPs with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high speed, low density CPLDs; high performance DSP devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi gigabit transceivers; and other new or emerging programmable logic products. 15 Several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell PLD products. To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment. We recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. Recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our IC products. We believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment. We could also face competition from our licensees. In the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. Granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products. Our failure to protect and defend our intellectual property could impair our ability to compete effectively. We rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Third parties may assert infringement claims against our indemnitees or us in the future. Assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation or indemnity claims and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. This could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products. Any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on information technology systems, and failure of these systems to function properly could result in business disruption. We rely in part on various information technology (IT) systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. Consequently, we periodically implement new, or enhance existing, operational and IT systems, procedures and controls. For example, we recently simplified our supply chain and were required to make certain changes to our IT systems. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Further, these systems are subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failure. Failure of our IT systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (the Act). Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. The identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. Further, our internal control effectiveness may be impacted upon executing the restructuring plan announced in April 2009 if we are unable to successfully transfer certain control activities and responsibilities to new personnel in different locations. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. From time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Certain claims are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed in Item 3. Legal Proceedings, included in Part I, and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. Should the Company fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us. We develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. Despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. These defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our 16 relationships with customers. Product defects or other performance problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. Product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. Any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. In preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous. In preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. Those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long lived assets, taxes, legal matters and stock based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates. If these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected. We depend on distributors, primarily Avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment. Resale of product through Avnet accounted for 55% of the Companys worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2009 and as of March 28, 2009, Avnet accounted for 81% of our total accounts receivable. In addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. A significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. Furthermore, if a key distributor materially defaults on a contract or otherwise fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer. In addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. Current economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. This could result in the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or cause distributors to delay payment of their obligations to us and increase our credit risk exposure. Our business could be harmed if the financial health of these distributors impairs their performance and we are unable to secure alternate distributors. Reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins. The average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. We seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. We also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average selling price of our products. However, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins. A number of factors can impact our gross margins. A number of factors, including our product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and or market segment pricing strategies and various manufacturing cost variables cause our gross margins to fluctuate. In addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because the majority of our business is based on turns within the same quarter. If we do not successfully implement the restructuring we announced in April 2009, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. In April 2009, we announced restructuring measures and a net reduction in our global workforce by up to 200 positions, which we expect to complete by the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. The positions will be eliminated across a variety of functions and geographies worldwide. The restructuring is designed to drive structural operating efficiencies across the Company and will align our Company with the evolving geographic distribution of our customers and supply chain. However, if we do not successfully implement this restructuring, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations with regard to our announced restructuring include: 17 the availability and hiring of the appropriately skilled workers in the Asia Pacific region; the transition of testing and other operational matters to third parties; and or the timing and execution of our programs and plans related to the restructuring. Considerable amounts of our common shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and debentures, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common shares. As of March 28, 2009, we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 275.5 million shares were outstanding. In addition, 62.7 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and 1990 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan (Employee Stock Purchase Plan), and 22.4 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 3.125% convertible debentures due March 15, 2037 (debentures). The availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the conversion or repurchase of debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate offices, which include the administrative, sales, customer support, marketing, R&D and manufacturing and testing groups, are located in San Jose, California. This main site consists of adjacent buildings providing 588,000 square feet of space, which we own. We also own two parcels of land totaling approximately 121 acres in South San Jose near our corporate facility. At present, we do not have any plans to develop the land. We also have a 106,000 square foot leased facility in San Jose, which we do not occupy and is presently listed for subleasing. We also own a 228,000 square foot facility in the metropolitan area of Dublin, Ireland, which serves as our regional headquarters in Europe. The Irish facility is primarily used for manufacturing and testing of our products, service and support for our customers in Europe, R&D and IT support. In addition, we also own a 222,000 square foot facility in Singapore, which serves as our Asia Pacific regional headquarters. We own the building but the land is subject to a 30 year lease expiring in November 2035. The Singapore facility is primarily used for manufacturing and testing of our products, service and support for our customers in Asia Pacific/Japan, coordination and management of certain third parties in our supply chain and R&D. Excess space in the facility is leased to tenants under long term lease agreements. We also own a 130,000 square foot facility in Longmont, Colorado. The Longmont facility serves as the primary location for our software efforts in the areas of R&D, manufacturing and quality control. In addition, we also own a 200,000 square foot facility and 40 acres of land adjacent to the Longmont facility for future expansion. The facility is partially leased to tenants under long term lease agreements and partially used by the Company. We own a 45,000 square foot facility in Albuquerque, New Mexico, which is used for the development of our CoolRunner CPLD product families as well as IP cores. We lease office facilities for our engineering design centers in Portland, Oregon, Grenoble, France, Edinburgh, Scotland, Hyderabad, India and Toronto, Canada. We also lease sales offices in various locations throughout North America, which include the metropolitan areas of Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, Nashua, Ottawa, Raleigh, San Diego and Toronto as well as international sales offices located in the metropolitan areas of Beijing, Brussels, Helsinki, Hong Kong, London, Milan, Munich, Osaka, Paris, Seoul, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Stockholm, Taipei, Tel Aviv and Tokyo. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Internal Revenue Service The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audited and issued proposed adjustments to the Companys tax returns for fiscal 1996 through 2001. The Company filed petitions with the Tax Court in response to assertions by the IRS relating to fiscal 1996 through 2000. To date, all issues have been settled with the IRS in this matter except as described in the following paragraphs. On August 30, 2005, the Tax Court issued its opinion concerning whether the value of stock options must be included in the cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Tax Court agreed with the Company that no amount for stock options was to be included in the cost sharing agreement, and thus, the Company had no tax, interest, or penalties due for this issue. The Tax Court entered its decision on May 31, 2006. On August 25, 2006, the IRS appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. 18 The Company and the IRS presented oral arguments to a three judge panel of the Appeals Court on March 12, 2008. On May 27, 2009, the Company received a 2 1 adverse judicial ruling from the Appeals Court reversing the Tax Court decision and holding that the Company should include stock option amounts in its cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Company does not agree with the Appeals Court decision and is reviewing its alternatives as a result of the decision. The Company expects to record expense of $8.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 in order to reverse the interest income it accrued through March 28, 2009 on the earlier prepayment it made to the IRS. The Company is presently determining the amount of penalties and interest to be accrued under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48) in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 as a result of this decision. In a separate matter, on December 8, 2008, the IRS issued a statutory notice of deficiency reflecting proposed audit adjustments for fiscal 2005. The Company filed a petition with the Tax Court on March 2, 2009, in response to this notice of deficiency and plans to contest the proposed adjustments. The Company believes it has provided adequate reserves for any tax deficiencies that could result from this IRS action. Patent Litigation On December 28, 2007, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed by PACT XPP Technologies, AG (PACT) against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division (PACT XPP Technologies, AG. v. Xilinx, Inc. and Avnet, Inc. Case No. 2:07 CV 563). The lawsuit pertains to 11 different patents and PACT seeks injunctive relief, unspecified damages and interest and attorneys fees. Neither the likelihood, nor the amount of any potential exposure to the Company is estimable at this time. On August 21, 2007, Lonestar Inventions, L.P. (Lonestar) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Xilinx in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division (Lonestar Inventions, L.P. v. Xilinx, Inc. Case No. 6:07 CV 393). The lawsuit pertained to a single patent and Lonestar sought injunctive relief, unspecified damages and interest and attorneys fees. The parties reached a confidential agreement to settle the action and the lawsuit was dismissed with prejudice on December 18, 2008. The amount of the settlement did not have a material impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. Other Matters From time to time, we are involved in various disputes and litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contract law, tax, regulatory, distribution arrangements, employee relations and other matters. Periodically, we review the status of each matter and assess its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and a range of possible losses can be estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Legal proceedings are subject to uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict. Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we continue to reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise estimates. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report. 19 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol XLNX. As of May 6, 2009, there were approximately 793 stockholders of record. Since many holders shares are listed under their brokerage firms names, the actual number of stockholders is estimated by the Company to be over 105,000. The following table sets forth the high and low closing sale prices, for the periods indicated, for our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market: Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2008 High Low High Low First Quarter $28.16 $22.96 $30.18 $25.65 Second Quarter 27.55 22.48 28.70 24.34 Third Quarter 23.45 14.61 26.97 21.16 Fourth Quarter 20.38 15.47 24.94 19.06 Dividends Declared Per Common Share The following table presents the quarterly dividends declared on our common stock for the periods indicated: Fiscal Fiscal 2009 2008 First Quarter $0.14 $0.12 Second Quarter 0.14 0.12 Third Quarter 0.14 0.12 Fourth Quarter 0.14 0.12 On April 21, 2009, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.14 per common share for the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The dividend is payable on June 3, 2009 to stockholders of record on May 13, 2009. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Company did not repurchase any of its common stock during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. The value of shares or outstanding debentures that may yet be purchased under our current common stock and debentures repurchase program is $525.7 million. See Note 15. Stockholders Equity to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for information regarding our stock repurchase plans. On February 25, 2008, we announced a repurchase program of up to $800.0 million of common stock. On November 6, 2008, our Board of Directors approved the amendment of the Companys $800.0 million stock repurchase program to provide that the funds may also be used to repurchase outstanding debentures. This repurchase program has no stated expiration date. Through March 28, 2009, the Company had used $274.3 million of the $800.0 million authorized for the repurchase of its outstanding common stock and debentures. 20 Company Stock Price Performance The following graph shows a comparison of cumulative total return for the Companys common stock, the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index (S&P 500 Index), and the Standard & Poors 500 Semiconductors Index (S&P 500 Semiconductors Index). The graph covers the period from April 2, 2004, the last trading day before Xilinxs 2005 fiscal year, to March 27, 2009, the last trading day of Xilinxs 2009 fiscal year. The graph and table assume that $100 was invested on April 2, 2004 in Xilinx, Inc. common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Semiconductors Index and that all dividends were reinvested. Company / Index 4/2/04 4/1/05 3/31/06 3/30/07 3/28/08 3/27/09 Xilinx, Inc. 100.00 72.47 64.79 66.44 60.79 52.73 S&P 500 Index 100.00 104.55 117.58 131.49 124.11 79.01 S&P 500 Semiconductors Index 100.00 80.37 88.16 81.40 76.20 56.39 Note: Stock price performance and indexed returns for our Common Stock are historical and are not an indicator of future price performance or future investment returns. 21 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Consolidated Statement of Income DataFive years ended March 28, 2009 (In thousands, except per share amounts) 2009(1) 2008(2) 2007(3) 2006(4) 2005(5) Net revenues $ 1,825,184 $ 1,841,372 $ 1,842,739 $ 1,726,250 $ 1,573,233 Operating income (6) 429,518 424,194 347,767 412,062 372,040 Income before income taxes (6) 498,184 474,094 431,146 456,602 400,544 Provision for income taxes 122,544 100,047 80,474 102,453 87,821 Net income 375,640 374,047 350,672 354,149 312,723 Net income per common share: Basic $ 1.36 $ 1.27 $ 1.04 $ 1.01 $ 0.90 Diluted $ 1.36 $ 1.25 $ 1.02 $ 1.00 $ 0.87 Shares used in per share calculations: Basic 276,113 295,050 337,920 349,026 347,810 Diluted 276,854 298,636 343,636 355,065 358,230 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.56 $ 0.48 $ 0.36 $ 0.28 $ 0.20 (1) Income before income taxes includes restructuring charges of $22,023, a gain on early extinguishment of convertible debentures of $110,606, impairment loss on investments of $54,129 and a charge of $3,086 related to an impairment of a leased facility that the Company no longer intends to occupy. (2) Income before income taxes includes a loss on the sale of the Companys remaining UMC investment of $4,732, an impairment loss on investments of $2,850 and a charge of $1,614 related to an impairment of a leased facility that the Company no longer intends to occupy. (3) Income before income taxes includes a charge of $5,934 related to an impairment of a leased facility that the Company no longer intends to occupy, a loss related to a litigation settlement of $2,500, stock based compensation related to prior years of $2,209, an impairment loss on investments of $1,950 and a gain of $7,016 from the sale of a portion of the Companys UMC investment. (4) Income before income taxes includes a loss related to litigation settlements and contingencies of $3,165, a write off of acquired in process R&D of $4,500 related to the acquisition of AccelChip and an impairment loss on investments of $1,418. (5) Income before income taxes includes a write off of acquired in process R&D of $7,198 related to the acquisition of Hier Design Inc. and impairment loss on investments of $3,099. (6) The Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)) in fiscal 2007. Results for prior fiscal years do not include the effects of stock based compensation (see Notes 2 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Consolidated Balance Sheet DataFive years ended March 28, 2009(In thousands) 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Working capital $ 1,519,402 $ 1,479,530 $ 1,396,733 $ 1,303,224 $ 1,154,163 Total assets 2,825,515 3,137,107 3,179,355 3,173,547 3,039,196 Convertible debentures 690,125 999,851 999,597 Other long term liabilities 81,776 40,281 (1) 1,320 7,485 Stockholders equity 1,737,900 1,671,823 1,772,740 2,728,885 2,673,508 (1) Includes $39,122 of long term income taxes payable reclassified from current to non current liabilities in connection with the adoption of FIN 48. See Note 16. Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 22 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Cautionary Statement The statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis that are forward looking, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, involve numerous risks and uncertainties and are based on current expectations. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements for many reasons, including those risks discussed under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this document. Often, forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words, such as may, will, could, should, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. We disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward looking statement provided in this Managements Discussion and Analysis for any reason. Nature of Operations We design, develop and market complete programmable logic solutions, including advanced ICs, software design tools, predefined system functions delivered as IP cores, design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. Our PLDs include FPGAs and CPLDs. These devices are standard products that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. Our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time to market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. We sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to OEMs by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The SEC has defined critical accounting policies as those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, our critical accounting policies include: valuation of marketable and non marketable securities, which impacts losses on debt and equity securities when we record impairments; revenue recognition, which impacts the recording of revenues; and valuation of inventories, which impacts cost of revenues and gross margin. Our critical accounting policies also include: the assessment of impairment of long lived assets including acquisition related intangibles, which impacts their valuation; the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill, which impacts goodwill impairment; accounting for income taxes, which impacts the provision or benefit recognized for income taxes, as well as the valuation of deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet; and valuation and recognition of stock based compensation, which impacts gross margin, R&D expenses, and selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. Valuation of Marketable and Non marketable Securities The Companys short term and long term investments include marketable debt securities and non marketable equity securities. As of March 28, 2009, the Company had marketable debt securities with a fair value of $1.24 billion and non marketable equity securities in private companies of $20.5 million (adjusted cost). Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the assessment of fair value is based on the provisions of SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). The Company determines the fair values for marketable debt and equity securities using industry standard pricing services, data providers and other third party sources and by performing valuation analyses. See Note 3. Fair Value Measurements to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for details of the valuation methodologies. In determining if and when a decline in value below adjusted cost of marketable debt and equity securities is other than temporary, the Company evaluates on an ongoing basis the market conditions, trends of earnings, financial condition, credit ratings, any underlying collateral and other key measures for our investments. We assess other than temporary impairment of debt and equity securities in accordance with FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 115 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. We recorded other than temporary impairments for marketable debt securities and a marketable equity security in fiscal 2009. We did not record any other than temporary impairment for marketable debt or equity securities in fiscal 2008 or 2007. 23 The Companys investments in non marketable securities of private companies are accounted for by using the cost method. These investments are measured at fair value on a non recurring basis when they are deemed to be other than temporarily impaired. In determining whether a decline in value of non marketable equity investments in private companies has occurred and is other than temporary, an assessment is made by considering available evidence, including the general market conditions in the investees industry, the investees product development status and subsequent rounds of financing and the related valuation and or our participation in such financings. We also assess the investees ability to meet business milestones and the financial condition and near term prospects of the individual investee, including the rate at which the investee is using its cash and the investees need for possible additional funding at a lower valuation. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the assessment of fair value is based on the provisions of SFAS 157. The valuation methodology for determining the decline in value of non marketable equity securities is based on the factors noted above which require management judgment and are Level 3 inputs. See Note 3. Fair Value Measurements to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information relating to the adoption of SFAS 157. When a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, the Company recognizes an impairment loss in the current periods operating results to the extent of the decline. We recorded other than temporary impairments for non marketable equity securities in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007. Revenue Recognition Sales to distributors are made under agreements providing distributor price adjustments and rights of return under certain circumstances. Revenue and costs relating to distributor sales are deferred until products are sold by the distributors to the distributors end customers. For fiscal 2009, approximately 77% of our net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to OEMs or their subcontract manufacturers. Revenue recognition depends on notification from the distributor that product has been sold to the distributors end customer. Also reported by the distributor are product resale price, quantity and end customer shipment information, as well as inventory on hand. Reported distributor inventory on hand is reconciled to deferred revenue balances monthly. We maintain system controls to validate distributor data and to verify that the reported information is accurate. Deferred income on shipments to distributors reflects the effects of distributor price adjustments and the amount of gross margin expected to be realized when distributors sell through product purchased from the Company. Accounts receivable from distributors are recognized and inventory is relieved when title to inventories transfers, typically upon shipment from Xilinx at which point we have a legally enforceable right to collection under normal payment terms. As of March 28, 2009, we had $90.4 million of deferred revenue and $28.0 million of deferred cost of goods sold recognized as a net $62.4 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. As of March 29, 2008, we had $158.0 million of deferred revenue and $46.3 million of deferred cost of goods sold recognized as a net $111.7 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. The deferred income on shipments to distributors that will ultimately be recognized in our consolidated statement of income will be different than the amount shown on the consolidated balance sheet due to actual price adjustments issued to the distributors when the product is sold to their end customers. Revenue from sales to our direct customers is recognized upon shipment provided that persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, the price is fixed, title has transferred, collection of resulting receivables is reasonably assured, and there are no customer acceptance requirements and no remaining significant obligations. For each of the periods presented, there were no significant formal acceptance provisions with our direct customers. Revenue from software licenses is deferred and recognized as revenue over the term of the licenses of one year. Revenue from support services is recognized when the service is performed. Revenue from Support Products, which includes software and services sales, was less than 7% of net revenues for all of the periods presented. Allowances for end customer sales returns are recorded based on historical experience and for known pending customer returns or allowances. Valuation of Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of actual cost (determined using the first in, first out method) or market (estimated net realizable value). The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate excess or obsolete inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. We review and set standard costs quarterly to approximate current actual manufacturing costs. Our manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of actual spending over actual volumes, adjusted for excess capacity. Given the cyclicality of the market, the obsolescence of technology and product lifecycles, we write down inventory based on forecasted demand and technological obsolescence. These factors are impacted by market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product introductions and changes in strategic direction and require estimates that may include uncertain elements. The estimates of future demand that we use in the valuation of inventory are the basis for our published revenue forecasts, which are also consistent with our short term manufacturing plans. If our demand forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, we could be required to write down additional inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. 24 Impairment of Long Lived Assets Including Acquisition Related Intangibles Long lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets to be held and used are reviewed for impairment if indicators of potential impairment exist. Impairment indicators are reviewed on a quarterly basis. When indicators of impairment exist and assets are held for use, we estimate future undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets. In the event such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the recorded value of the assets, the assets are written down to their estimated fair values based on the expected discounted future cash flows attributable to the assets or based on appraisals. Factors affecting impairment of assets held for use include the ability of the specific assets to generate positive cash flows. When assets are removed from operations and held for sale, we estimate impairment losses as the excess of the carrying value of the assets over their fair value. Factors affecting impairment of assets held for sale include market conditions. Changes in any of these factors could necessitate impairment recognition in future periods for assets held for use or assets held for sale. Long lived assets such as goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant, and equipment, are considered nonfinancial assets, and are only measured at fair value when indicators of impairment exist. The accounting and disclosure provisions of SFAS 157 will not be effective for these assets until the first quarter of fiscal 2010. See Note 3. Fair Value Measurements to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. Goodwill As required by SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142), goodwill is not amortized but is subject to impairment tests on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, and goodwill is written down when it is determined to be impaired. We perform an annual impairment review in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and compare the fair value of the reporting unit in which the goodwill resides to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, the goodwill of the reporting unit is potentially impaired. For purposes of impairment testing under SFAS 142, Xilinx operates as a single reporting unit. We use the quoted market price method to determine the fair value of the reporting unit. Based on the impairment review performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, there was no impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2009. Unless there are indicators of impairment, our next impairment review for goodwill will be performed and completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. To date, no impairment indicators have been identified. Accounting for Income Taxes Xilinx is a multinational corporation operating in multiple tax jurisdictions. We must determine the allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on estimates and assumptions and apply the appropriate tax rates for these jurisdictions. We undergo routine audits by taxing authorities regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Tax audits often require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments if changes to the allocation are required between jurisdictions with different tax rates. In determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. Additionally, we must estimate the amount and likelihood of potential losses arising from audits or deficiency notices issued by taxing authorities. The taxing authorities positions and our assessment can change over time resulting in a material effect on the provision for income taxes in periods when these changes occur. We must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a reserve in the form of a valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. The Company has elected to adopt the alternative transition method provided in FSP No. FAS 123(R) 3, Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share Based Payment Awards for calculating the tax effects of stock based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R). The alternative transition method includes simplified methods to establish the beginning balance of the APIC pool related to the tax effects of employee stock based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the APIC pool and consolidated statements of cash flows of the tax effects of employee stock based compensation awards that are outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R). In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48. FIN 48 contains a two step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax 25 benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being ultimately realized. See Note 16. Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Stock Based Compensation In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we adopted SFAS 123(R), which requires the measurement at fair value and recognition of compensation expense for all stock based payment awards. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of stock based awards at the date of grant requires judgment. We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of employee stock options and rights to purchase shares under the Companys Employee Stock Purchase Plan, consistent with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). Option pricing models, including the Black Scholes model, also require the use of input assumptions, including expected stock price volatility, expected life, expected dividend rate, expected forfeiture rate and expected risk free rate of return. We use implied volatility based on traded options in the open market as we believe implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility. In determining the appropriateness of implied volatility, we considered: the volume of market activity of traded options, and determined there was sufficient market activity; the ability to reasonably match the input variables of traded options to those of options granted by the Company, such as date of grant and the exercise price, and determined the input assumptions were comparable; and the length of term of traded options used to derive implied volatility, which is generally one to two years and which was extrapolated to match the expected term of the employee options granted by the Company, and determined the length of the option term was reasonable. The expected life of options granted is based on the historical exercise activity as well as the expected disposition of all options outstanding. We will continue to review our input assumptions and make changes as deemed appropriate depending on new information that becomes available. Higher volatility and expected lives result in a proportional increase to stock based compensation determined at the date of grant. The expected dividend rate and expected risk free rate of return do not have as significant an effect on the calculation of fair value. In addition, SFAS 123(R) requires us to develop an estimate of the number of stock based awards which will be forfeited due to employee turnover. Quarterly changes in the estimated forfeiture rate have an effect on reported stock based compensation, as the effect of adjusting the rate for all expense amortization after April 1, 2006 is recognized in the period the forfeiture estimate is changed. If the actual forfeiture rate is higher than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to increase the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in a decrease to the expense recognized in the financial statements. If the actual forfeiture rate is lower than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to decrease the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in an increase to the expense recognized in the financial statements. The effect of forfeiture adjustments in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 was insignificant. The expense we recognize in future periods could also differ significantly from the current period and or our forecasts due to adjustments in the assumed forfeiture rates. Results of Operations The following table sets forth statement of income data as a percentage of net revenues for the fiscal years indicated: 2009 2008 2007 Net Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 36.7 37.3 39.0 Gross Margin 63.3 62.7 61.0 Operating Expenses: Research and development 19.5 19.4 21.1 Selling, general and administrative 18.8 19.9 20.4 Amortization of acquisition related intangibles 0.3 0.4 0.4 Restructuring charges 1.2 0.0 0.0 Litigation settlement 0.0 0.0 0.1 Stock based compensation related to prior years 0.0 0.0 0.1 Total operating expenses 39.8 39.7 42.1 Operating Income 23.5 23.0 18.9 Gain on early extinguishment of convertible debentures 6.1 0.0 0.0 Impairment loss on investments (3.0 ) (0.2 ) (0.1 ) Interest and other income, net 0.7 2.9 4.6 Income Before Income Taxes 27.3 25.7 23.4 Provision for income taxes 6.7 5.4 4.4 Net Income 20.6 % 20.3 % 19.0 % 26 Net Revenues (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Net revenues $1,825.2 (1)% $1,841.4 0% $1,842.7 The 1% decline in net revenues in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 was largely due to the recessionary environment we experienced during the fiscal year which impacted our sales across a broad base of end markets. New Product revenue increased considerably in fiscal 2009 but not enough to fully offset the declines in Base and Mainstream Products. Total unit sales declined in fiscal 2009 but average selling price per unit increased compared to the comparable prior year period. The relatively flat net revenues in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 was driven by strong customer demand for our New Products which was offset by decreased demand for our Mainstream and Base Products, particularly in the Communications and Data Processing end markets. Increased total unit sales during fiscal 2008 compared to the comparable prior year period were offset by declines in average unit selling prices, which also contributed to the flat net revenues in fiscal 2008. See Net Revenues by Product and Net Revenues by End Markets below for more information on our product and end market categories. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of net revenues for any of the periods presented. Net Revenues by Product We classify our product offerings into four categories: New, Mainstream, Base and Support Products. These product categories, excluding Support Products, are modified on a periodic basis to better reflect advances in technology. The most recent adjustment was made on July 2, 2006, which was the beginning of our second quarter of fiscal 2007. New Products, as currently defined, include our most recent product offerings and include the Virtex 5, Virtex 4, Spartan 3 and CoolRunner II product families. Mainstream Products include the Virtex II, Spartan II, CoolRunner and Virtex E product families. Mainstream products are generally several years old and designed into customer programs that are currently shipping in full production. Base Products consist of our older product families including the Virtex, Spartan, XC4000 and XC9500 products. Support Products make up the remainder of our product offerings and include configuration products, software, IP cores, customer training, design services and support. In fiscal 2010, we expect to reclassify our net revenues by product categories to better reflect the age of the products and advances in technologies. Net revenues by product categories for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: % of % % of % % of (In millions) 2009 Total Change 2008 Total Change 2007 Total New Products $ 847.9 47 40 $ 604.2 33 45 $ 416.8 23 Mainstream Products 673.0 37 (21 ) 849.8 46 (15 ) 1,004.2 54 Base Products 206.3 11 (26 ) 277.7 15 (12 ) 317.2 17 Support Products 98.0 5 (11 ) 109.7 6 5 104.5 6 Total net revenues $ 1,825.2 100 (1 ) $ 1,841.4 100 0 $ 1,842.7 100 Net revenues from New Products increased significantly in fiscal 2009 compared to the prior year period due to continued strong market acceptance of these products, primarily Virtex 5, Virtex 4 and Spartan 3E. In fiscal 2009, Virtex 5 sales nearly tripled and net revenues from our Virtex 4 and Spartan 3 product families each grew in double digits. These products, along with our CoolRunner II family of CPLDs, contributed to the majority of the revenue growth in New Products in fiscal 2008. We expect sales of New Products to continue to increase over time as more customers programs go into volume production with our 65 nm and 90 nm products. Net revenues from Mainstream Products declined in fiscal 2009 and 2008 primarily due to a decline in sales of some of our older generation products that were introduced to the market more than seven years ago. The decline in net revenues from Base Products in fiscal 2009 and 2008 was expected since these products are mature and approaching the end of life. Net revenues from Support Products decreased in fiscal 2009 compared to the prior year period primarily due to a decline in sales from our PROM products. Net revenues from Support Products increased in fiscal 2008 due to modest increases in sales from our software products. 27 Net Revenues by End Markets Our end market revenue data is derived from our understanding of our end customers primary markets. We classify our net revenues by end markets into four categories: Communications, Industrial and Other, Consumer and Automotive, and Data Processing. The percentage change calculation in the table below represents the year to year dollar change in each end market. Net revenues by end markets for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: % Change % Change (% of total net revenues) 2009 in Dollars 2008 in Dollars 2007 Communications 44 % 1 43 % (5 ) 45 % Industrial and Other 32 1 32 11 29 Consumer and Automotive 16 (6 ) 17 4 16 Data Processing 8 (9 ) 8 (14 ) 10 Total net revenues 100 % (1 ) 100 % 0 100 % Net revenues from Communications, our largest end market, increased in fiscal 2009 compared to the prior year period primarily due to the strength in wireless communication applications. Sales to customers in the wireless space were particularly strong during fiscal 2009 as a result of next generation wireless activity in China. In fiscal 2008, net revenues from Communications decreased primarily due to decreased sales from wireless communication applications, much of which was driven by merger and consolidation activity in that market. Net revenues from the Industrial and Other end market increased in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period due to strong sales growth from aerospace and defense and industrial, scientific and medical applications. However, this growth was offset considerably by weakness in test and measurement applications. In fiscal 2008, net revenues from the Industrial and Other end market increased due to broad based strength across all applications including defense, industrial, scientific and medical and test and measurement. Net revenues from the Consumer and Automotive end market decreased in fiscal 2009 from the comparable prior year due to weaker sales from audio, video and broadcast and automotive applications, which was partially offset by an increase in sales from consumer applications. In fiscal 2008, net revenues from the Consumer and Automotive end market increased primarily due to strength in automotive applications. The decrease in net revenues from the Data Processing end market in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period was mainly driven by decreases in sales from computing and data processing applications. In fiscal 2008, net revenues from the Data Processing end market declined due to decreases in sales from storage as well as computing and data processing applications. Net Revenues by Geography Geographic revenue information reflects the geographic location of the distributors or OEMs who purchased our products. This may differ from the geographic location of the end customers. Net revenues by geography for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: % of % % of % % of (In millions) 2009 Total Change 2008 Total Change 2007 Total North America $ 627.7 34 (13 ) $ 717.8 39 (2 ) $ 731.3 40 Asia Pacific 603.0 33 15 526.3 29 13 466.6 25 Europe 411.6 23 1 407.2 22 (5 ) 426.9 23 Japan 182.9 10 (4 ) 190.1 10 (13 ) 217.9 12 Total net revenues $ 1,825.2 100 (1 ) $ 1,841.4 100 0 $ 1,842.7 100 Net revenues in North America decreased in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period primarily due to lower sales from the Communications end market. The decrease in net revenues during fiscal 2008 was driven primarily by a decline in sales from wireless communications as well as data processing applications. Net revenues in Asia Pacific increased in double digits during fiscal 2009, driven by strength in the Communications end market, primarily from next generation wireless applications in China. The increase in net revenues in fiscal 2008 was due to broad based end market strength, with particular strength coming from customers in the Communications and Industrial and Other end markets. Asia Pacific sales continued to benefit from outsourcing of manufacturing operations by large U.S. and European based customers to the Asia Pacific region. Net revenues in Europe increased in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period primarily due to strength in wireless communication applications. Net revenues decreased in fiscal 2008 primarily due to lower sales from wireless communication applications. 28 Net revenues in Japan decreased in fiscal 2009 compared to the same period last year due to broad based weakness across most end market categories with the exception of the Consumer and Automotive end market. The fiscal 2008 decline was due to broad based weakness across all end market categories. Gross Margin (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Gross margin $1,156.0 0% $1,154.4 3% $1,124.1 Percentage of net revenues 63.3% 62.7% 61.0% The increase in the gross margin percentage in fiscal 2009 from the comparable prior year period was driven primarily by product cost reductions, higher average selling prices per unit, stabilization of our New Products and improved operational efficiency. The increase in the gross margin percentage in fiscal 2008 from the comparable prior year period was driven primarily by product cost reductions and improved operational efficiency. This favorable impact was partially offset by the product mix effect of New Product growth year over year. New Products generally have lower gross margins than Mainstream and Base Products in the early product life cycle due to higher unit costs resulting from lower yields. As a percentage of total net revenues, New Product sales increased by approximately 10% from fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2008. Gross margin may be affected in the future due to mix shifts, competitive pricing pressure, manufacturing yield issues and wafer pricing. We expect to mitigate any adverse impacts from these factors by continuing to improve yields on our New Products and by improving manufacturing efficiencies. Sales of inventory previously written off were not material during fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007. In order to compete effectively, we pass manufacturing cost reductions on to our customers in the form of reduced prices to the extent that we can maintain acceptable margins. Price erosion is common in the semiconductor industry, as advances in both product architecture and manufacturing process technology permit continual reductions in unit cost. We have historically been able to offset much of this revenue decline in our mature products with increased revenues from newer products. Research and Development (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Research and development $355.4 (1)% $358.1 (8)% $388.1 Percentage of net revenues 19% 19% 21% R&D spending decreased $2.7 million or 1% during fiscal 2009 compared to the same period last year. The decrease was attributable to lower mask and wafer spending and reduced stock based compensation expense, which was partially offset by increased outside services to support our investments in new product development. R&D spending decreased $30.0 million or 8% during fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. The decrease was primarily due to reduced stock based compensation expense and lower mask and wafer spending, coupled with lower cost related to our R&D center in India. We plan to continue to selectively invest in R&D efforts in areas such as new products and more advanced process development, IP cores and the development of new design and layout software. We will also consider acquisitions to complement our strategy for technology leadership and engineering resources in critical areas. Selling, General and Administrative (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Selling, general and administrative $343.8 (6)% $365.3 (3)% $375.5 Percentage of net revenues 19% 20% 20% SG&A expenses decreased $21.5 million or 6% during fiscal 2009 compared to the same period last year. The decrease was primarily due to headcount reduction as a result of a functional reorganization, lower sales commissions and lower stock based compensation expense, which was partially offset by higher litigation costs. 29 SG&A expenses decreased $10.2 million or 3% during fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. The decrease was attributable to lower stock based compensation expense, reduced discretionary spending and lower sales commissions. The reductions in discretionary spending included consulting, travel and marketing expenses. Amortization of Acquisition Related Intangibles (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Amortization of acquisition related intangibles $5.3 (22)% $6.8 (15)% $8.0 Amortization expense was related to the intangible assets acquired from prior acquisitions. Amortization expense for these intangible assets decreased for fiscal 2009 from the same period last year, due to the complete amortization of certain intangible assets in fiscal 2008. Amortization expense for these intangible assets decreased for fiscal 2008 from fiscal 2007, due to the complete amortization of certain intangible assets in fiscal 2007. We expect amortization of acquisition related intangibles to be approximately $1.5 million for fiscal 2010 compared with $5.3 million for fiscal 2009. Restructuring Charges In June 2008, we announced a functional reorganization pursuant to which we eliminated 249 positions, or approximately 7% of our global workforce. These employee terminations occurred across various geographies and functions worldwide. The reorganization plan was completed by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2009. We recorded total restructuring charges of $22.0 million in connection with the reorganization. These charges consisted of $19.5 million of severance pay and benefits expenses which were recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and $2.5 million of facility related costs and severance benefits expenses which were recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. The following table summarizes the restructuring accrual activity for fiscal 2009: Employee Facility severance and related (In millions) benefits costs Total Balance as of March 29, 2008 $ $ $ Accruals during the period 20.5 1.5 22.0 Cash payments (20.0 ) (0.6 ) (20.6 ) Non cash settlements (0.5 ) (0.2 ) (0.7 ) Balance as of March 28, 2009 $ $ 0.7 $ 0.7 The charges above have been shown separately as restructuring charges on the consolidated statements of income. The remaining accrual as of March 28, 2009 relates to facility related costs that are expected to be paid over the remaining lease terms of the closed facilities expiring at various dates through December 2012. We estimate that severance and benefits expenses incurred to date will result in gross annual savings of approximately $35.0 million, including approximately $30.0 million of cash savings before taxes and approximately $5.0 million of stock based compensation expense. We began realizing the majority of these savings, primarily within the SG&A and R&D expense categories, beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. There can be no assurance that these expected future savings will be completely realized as they may be partially offset by increases in other expenses. See Note 21. Subsequent Events to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for information relating to a restructuring announced on April 15, 2009. Litigation Settlement On November 27, 2006, the Company settled a patent infringement lawsuit under which the Company agreed to pay $6.5 million. The plaintiff agreed to dismiss the patent infringement lawsuit with prejudice, granted a patent license to the Company and executed an agreement not to sue the Company under any patent owned or controlled by the plaintiff for ten years. As a result of the settlement agreement, we recorded a current period charge of $2.5 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2007. The remaining balance of $4.0 million represented the value of the prepaid patent license granted as part of the settlement. This balance is being amortized over the patents remaining useful life of nine years. 30 Stock Based Compensation (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Stock based compensation included in: Cost of revenues $ 5.8 (24 )% $ 7.6 (26 )% $ 10.4 Research and development 25.0 (20 )% 31.4 (24 )% 41.6 Selling, general and administrative 23.1 (16 )% 27.4 (29 )% 38.3 Restructuring charges 0.6 Stock based compensation related to prior years 2.2 $ 54.5 (18 )% $ 66.4 (28 )% $ 92.5 The $11.9 million decrease in stock based compensation expense for fiscal 2009 was due to a decrease in the number of shares granted, declining weighted average fair values of stock awards vesting and an increase in the number of shares cancelled due to the June 2008 restructuring. The $26.1 million decrease in stock based compensation expense for fiscal 2008 was due to a decrease in the number of shares granted, declining weighted average fair values of stock awards vesting and lower expense related to a methodology change from accelerated to straight line amortization in connection with the adoption of SFAS 123(R). Total stock based compensation expense during fiscal 2007 related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) was $90.3 million, excluding one time expense of $2.2 million relating to prior years under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations, using the intrinsic value method. In June 2006, stockholder derivative complaints were filed against the Company concerning the Companys historical option granting practices and the SEC initiated an informal inquiry on the matter. An investigation of the Companys historical stock option granting practices was conducted by outside counsel and no evidence of fraud, management misconduct or manipulation in the timing or exercise price of stock option grants was found. The investigation determined that in nearly all cases, stock options were issued as of pre set dates; however, there were some minor differences between the recorded grant dates and measurement dates for certain grants made between 1997 and 2006. As a result, a $2.2 million charge was taken to the Companys earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Subsequently the SEC informal inquiry was terminated and no enforcement action was recommended and the stockholder derivative complaints were dismissed. The income tax effect of the charge resulted in a benefit of $650 thousand, which was recorded to income tax expense. The Company assessed the implications of applicable income tax rules that may affect the Company. The tax benefit recorded is net of such potential costs. Gain on Early Extinguishment of Convertible Debentures In the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009, we paid $193.2 million in cash to repurchase $310.4 million (principal amount) of our debentures and recognized a gain on early extinguishment of convertible debentures of $110.6 million, net of the write off of the pro rata portions of unamortized debt issuance costs ($5.8 million) and unamortized derivative valuation ($736 thousand). Accrued interest paid at the time of repurchases totaled $2.4 million. Impairment Loss on Investments (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Impairment loss on investments $54.1 1,799% $2.9 46% $2.0 Percentage of net revenues 3% 0% 0% During fiscal 2009, we recorded total impairment losses related to senior class asset backed securities of $38.0 million, which represented the original purchase price of these securities, excluding accrued interest. The senior class asset backed securities were partially written off in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 due to default by the issuer in October 2008. At the time of the initial write off of $19.8 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we understood, based on the issuers prospectus disclosures that investors would be repaid proportionally and without preference. In October 2008, the issuer went into receivership. The receiver subsequently sought judicial interpretation of a provision of a legal document governing the issuers securities. As a result of the outcome of the judicial determination, the receiver immediately liquidated the substantial majority of the issuers assets, and in accordance with the court order, the proceeds were used to repay short term liabilities in the order in which they fell due. In December 2008, the receiver reported to the issuers creditors the outcome of the judicial determination and that the issuers liabilities substantially exceeded its assets. As a result, the receiver estimated that the issuer would not be able to pay any liabilities falling due after October 2008 regardless of the seniority or status of the securities. Our investments in these senior class asset backed securities mature in September 2009 and September 2010. Based on these new developments, we concluded that we are not likely to recover the 31 During the second quarter of fiscal 2009, the issuer of one of the marketable debt securities in our investment portfolio filed for bankruptcy resulting in a significant decline in the fair value of this security. The original purchase price of this security, excluding accrued interest, was $10.0 million. Based upon the available market and financial data for the issuer, the decline in market value was deemed to be other than temporary and we recorded impairment losses of $9.0 million, including $8.4 million in the second quarter and $600 thousand in the third quarter of fiscal 2009. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we recognized an additional impairment loss of $1.0 million on marketable debt securities in our investment portfolio. During fiscal 2009, we recognized a $3.1 million impairment loss as a result of a continuous decline that began in fiscal 2008 in the market value of our investment in a marketable equity security. We believed that the decline in the market value was other than temporary and it was deemed to be worthless as of September 27, 2008. We recognized an impairment loss on our investment in this marketable equity security during the first and second quarters of fiscal 2009. We recorded impairment losses of $3.0 million, $2.9 million and $2.0 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to our investment in non marketable equity securities in private companies. These impairment losses resulted primarily from weak financial conditions of certain investees, certain investees diluting our investment through the receipt of additional rounds of investment at a lower valuation or from the liquidation of certain investees. Interest and Other Income, Net (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Interest and other income, net $12.2 (77)% $52.7 (38)% $85.3 Percentage of net revenues 1% 3% 5% The decrease in interest and other income, net in fiscal 2009 over the prior year was due primarily to a decrease in interest rates and a smaller investment portfolio. The average interest rate yield decreased by approximately 200 basis points (two percentage points) year over year. The decrease in interest and other income, net in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007 was due to the interest expense ($32.0 million) related to the debentures issued in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 as well as a loss of approximately $4.7 million from the sale of the Companys remaining UMC investment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in interest income of $13.6 million in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007 due to higher yields resulting from investing in taxable securities and a larger investment portfolio. See Note 12. Interest and Other Income, Net to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Provision for Income Taxes (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Provision for income taxes $122.5 22% $100.0 24% $80.5 Percentage of net revenues 7% 5% 4% Effective tax rate 25% 21% 19% The effective tax rates in all years reflected the favorable impact of foreign income at statutory rates less than the U.S. rate and tax credits earned. The increase in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2009, when compared with fiscal 2008, was primarily due to the gain on early extinguishment of debentures taxable at U.S. tax rates. The increase was partially offset by the benefit of retroactive extension of the research credit in fiscal 2009. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 was signed into law. This legislation extended the federal research credit through the end of calendar 2009. The increase in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2008, when compared with fiscal 2007, was primarily due to items unique to fiscal 2007 reducing the rates for the prior year period. The IRS examined the Companys tax returns for fiscal 1996 through 2001. All issues have been settled with the exception of issues related to Xilinx U.S.s cost sharing arrangement with Xilinx Ireland. On August 30, 2005, the Tax Court issued its opinion concerning whether the value of stock options must be included in the cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Tax Court agreed with the Company that no amount for stock options was to be included in the cost sharing agreement. Accordingly, there were no additional taxes, penalties or interest due for this issue. The Tax Court entered its decision on May 31, 2006. On August 25, 2006, the IRS appealed the decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. On May 27, 2009, the Company received a 2 1 adverse judicial ruling from the Appeals Court reversing the Tax Court decision and holding that the Company should include stock option amounts in its cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Company does not agree with the Appeals Court decision and is reviewing its alternatives as a result of the decision. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings included in Part I and Note 16. Income Taxes, Note 18. Litigation Settlements and Contingencies, and Note 21. Subsequent Events to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 32 Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources We have historically used a combination of cash flows from operations and equity and debt financing to support ongoing business activities, acquire or invest in critical or complementary technologies, purchase facilities and capital equipment, repurchase our common stock and debentures under our repurchase program, pay dividends and finance working capital. Additionally, our investments in debt securities are available for future sale. Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short term and Long term Investments The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short term and long term investments as of March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008 totaled $1.67 billion and $1.86 billion, respectively. As of March 28, 2009, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.32 billion and working capital of $1.52 billion. Cash provided by operations of $442.5 million for fiscal 2009 was $138.5 million lower than the $581.0 million generated during fiscal 2008. Cash provided by operations during fiscal 2009 resulted primarily from net income as adjusted for non cash related items, an increase in deferred income taxes and a decrease in accounts receivable, which were partially offset by decreases in accrued liabilities and deferred income on shipments to distributors. Net cash provided by investing activities was $274.5 million during fiscal 2009, as compared to $192.0 million in fiscal 2008. Net cash provided by investing activities during fiscal 2009 consisted of $314.4 million of net proceeds from the sale and maturity of available for sale securities. These items were partially offset by $39.1 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment (see further discussion below) and $793 thousand of other investing activities. Net cash used in financing activities was $518.1 million in fiscal 2009, as compared to $541.9 million in fiscal 2008. Net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2009 consisted of $193.2 million for the repurchase of debentures, $275.0 million for the repurchase of common stock and $154.5 million for dividend payments to stockholders. These items were partially offset by $99.8 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and $4.8 million for excess tax benefits from stock based compensation. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful accounts, customer returns and distributor pricing adjustments decreased 13% from $249.1 million at the end of fiscal 2008 to $216.4 million at the end of fiscal 2009. Days sales outstanding decreased to 43 days as of March 28, 2009 from 49 days as of March 29, 2008. The decreases were primarily attributable to a decrease in net shipments and weaker linearity of shipments at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 compared to the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Inventories Inventories decreased from $130.3 million as of March 29, 2008 to $119.8 million as of March 28, 2009. The combined inventory days at Xilinx and distribution channel decreased to 80 days as of March 28, 2009, compared to 94 days as of March 29, 2008. The decreases were primarily due to lower inventory at Xilinx and in the distributor channel as a result of declining revenues due to lower anticipated demand and more effective inventory management processes. We attempt to maintain sufficient levels of inventory in various product, package and speed configurations in order to keep lead times short and to meet forecasted customer demand. Conversely, we also attempt to minimize the handling costs associated with maintaining higher inventory levels and to fully realize the opportunities for cost reductions associated with architecture and manufacturing process advancements. We continually strive to balance these two objectives to provide excellent customer response at a competitive cost. Property, Plant and Equipment During fiscal 2009, we invested $39.1 million in property, plant and equipment compared to $45.6 million in fiscal 2008. Primary investments in fiscal 2009 were for building improvements, test equipment, computer equipment and software. We expect that property, plant and equipment expenditures will decrease in the near future due to expense controls and the current recessionary economic environment. 33 Current Liabilities Current liabilities decreased from $340.7 million at the end of fiscal 2008 to $233.1 million at the end of fiscal 2009. The decrease was primarily due to the decreases in income taxes payable and deferred income on shipments to distributors. The decrease in deferred income on shipments to distributors was due to a decrease in distributor inventories as of March 28, 2009 compared to the prior year. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity increased $66.1 million during fiscal 2009, from $1.67 billion in fiscal 2008 to $1.74 billion in fiscal 2009. The increase in stockholders equity was attributable to net income of $375.6 million for fiscal 2009, the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and other of $96.4 million, stock based compensation related amounts totaling $54.1 million and the related tax benefits associated with stock option exercises and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan of $4.2 million. The increases were partially offset by the repurchase of common stock of $275.0 million, the payment of dividends to stockholders of $154.5 million, an adjustment to the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 of $10.1 million, unrealized losses on available for sale securities, net of deferred tax benefits, of $14.9 million, cumulative translation adjustment of $7.7 million and unrealized hedging transaction losses totaling $2.0 million. Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short term and Long term Investments The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short term and long term investments as of March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007 totaled $1.86 billion and $1.81 billion, respectively. As of March 29, 2008, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.30 billion and working capital of $1.48 billion. Cash provided by operations of $581.0 million for fiscal 2008 was $29.4 million higher than the $551.6 million generated during fiscal 2007. Cash provided by operations during fiscal 2008 resulted primarily from net income as adjusted for non cash related items, decreases in inventories and prepaid expenses and increases in income taxes payable and deferred income on shipments to distributors which were partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable. The decrease in prepaid expenses in fiscal 2008 was primarily related to the utilization of the advance wafer purchase payment paid to Toshiba. In October 2004, we entered into an advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba under which the Company paid Toshiba a total of $100.0 million for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement, which expired in December 2006 and was extended until December 2008. The entire advance payment of $100.0 million was reduced by wafer purchases from Toshiba. As of March 29, 2008, the unused balance of the advance payment remaining was $4.5 million. Net cash provided by investing activities was $192.0 million during fiscal 2008, as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $283.8 million in fiscal 2007. Net cash provided by investing activities during fiscal 2008 consisted of $232.2 million of net proceeds from the sale and maturity of available for sale securities, including $47.1 million of net proceeds from the sale of the remaining UMC investment, and a distribution from UMC of $10.7 million. These items were partially offset by $45.6 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment (see further discussion below) and $5.3 million of other investing activities. Net cash used in financing activities was $541.9 million in fiscal 2008, as compared to $415.3 million in fiscal 2007. Net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2008 consisted of $550.0 million for the repurchase of common stock and $140.0 million for dividend payments to stockholders. These items were partially offset by $125.6 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and $22.5 million for excess tax benefits from stock based compensation. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful accounts, customer returns and distributor pricing adjustments increased 37% from $182.3 million at the end of fiscal 2007 to $249.1 million at the end of fiscal 2008. Days sales outstanding increased to 49 days as of March 29, 2008 from 36 days as of March 31, 2007. The increases were primarily attributable to the timing of payments from customers, credit issuance and the timing of shipments during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Inventories Inventories decreased from $174.6 million as of March 31, 2007 to $130.3 million as of March 29, 2008. The combined inventory days at Xilinx and distribution channel decreased to 94 days as of March 29, 2008, compared to 112 days as of March 31, 2007. The decreases were primarily due to improved forecasting accuracy and fewer inventory mix issues. 34 Property, Plant and Equipment During fiscal 2008, we invested $45.6 million in property, plant and equipment compared to $110.8 million in fiscal 2007. Primary investments in fiscal 2008 were for computer equipment, software, test equipment, and building and leasehold improvements. The decrease in fiscal 2008 was primarily attributable to the accumulated construction costs incurred in fiscal 2007 in connection with our Asia Pacific regional headquarters building in Singapore, which was completed in June 2007, and the purchase in February 2007 of a parcel of land for $28.6 million near our headquarters in San Jose for future potential growth purposes, neither of which was repeated in fiscal 2008. We do not intend to build on the land for the foreseeable future. Current Liabilities Current liabilities increased from $303.4 million at the end of fiscal 2007 to $340.7 million at the end of fiscal 2008. The increase was primarily due to the increases in deferred income on shipments to distributors and accrued payroll and related liabilities, which were partially offset by the decrease in accounts payable. The increase in deferred income on shipments to distributors was due to an increase in distributor inventories at March 29, 2008 compared to the prior year. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity decreased $100.9 million during fiscal 2008, from $1.77 billion in fiscal 2007 to $1.67 billion in fiscal 2008. The decrease in stockholders equity was attributable to the repurchase of common stock of $550.0 million, the payment of dividends to stockholders of $140.0 million and unrealized losses on available for sale securities, net of deferred tax benefits, of $1.8 million. The decreases were partially offset by net income of $374.0 million for fiscal 2008, the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans of $124.7 million, stock based compensation related amounts totaling $65.8 million, the related tax benefits associated with stock option exercises and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan of $15.8 million, the effect of the adoption of FIN 48 totaling $6.5 million, cumulative translation adjustment of $3.1 million and hedging transaction gains totaling $1.0 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash generated from operations is used as our primary source of liquidity and capital resources. Our investment portfolio is also available for future cash requirements as is our $250.0 million revolving credit facility entered into in April 2007. We are not aware of any lack of access to the revolving credit facility; however, we can provide no assurance that access to the credit facility will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. Our credit facility is not reliant upon a single bank. There have been no borrowings to date under our existing revolving credit facility. We also have a shelf registration on file with the SEC pursuant to which we may offer an indeterminate amount of debt, equity and other securities in the future to augment our liquidity and capital resources. We used $275.0 million of cash to repurchase 10.8 million shares of our common stock in fiscal 2009 compared with $550.0 million used to repurchase 23.5 million shares in fiscal 2008. In addition, during fiscal 2009, we paid $193.2 million of cash to repurchase $310.4 million (principal amount) of our debentures resulting in a net gain on early extinguishment of debentures of $110.6 million. During fiscal 2009, we paid $154.5 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing an aggregate amount of $0.56 per common share. During fiscal 2008, we paid $140.0 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing an aggregate amount of $0.48 per common share. In addition, on April 21, 2009, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.14 per common share for the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The dividend is payable on June 3, 2009 to stockholders of record on May 13, 2009. Our common stock and debentures repurchase program and dividend policy could be impacted by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements relating to R&D, investments and acquisitions, legal risks, principal and interest payments on our debentures and other strategic investments. The global credit crisis has imposed exceptional levels of volatility and disruption in the capital markets, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, and increased counterparty risk. Nevertheless, we anticipate that existing sources of liquidity and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future. We will continue to evaluate opportunities for investments to obtain additional wafer capacity, procurement of additional capital equipment and facilities, development of new products, and potential acquisitions of technologies or businesses that could complement our business. However, the risk factors discussed in Item 1A included in Part I and below could affect our cash positions adversely. In addition, certain types of investments such as asset backed securities may present risks arising from liquidity and or credit concerns. In the event that our investments in auction rate securities and senior class asset backed securities become illiquid, we do not expect this will materially affect our liquidity and capital resources or results of operations. As of March 28, 2009, marketable securities measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs were comprised of $58.4 million of student loan auction rate securities and $36.5 million of asset backed securities within our available for sale investment portfolio. The amount of assets and liabilities measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) as a percentage of the total assets and liabilities measured at fair value was less than 6% as of March 28, 2009. See Note 3. Fair Value Measurements to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. Auction failures 35 during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and the lack of market activity and liquidity required that our student loan auction rate securities be measured using observable market data and Level 3 inputs. The fair values of our student loan auction rate securities were based on our assessment of the underlying collateral and the creditworthiness of the issuers of the securities. More than 98% of the underlying assets that secure the student loan auction rate securities are pools of student loans originated under FFELP that are substantially guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Education. The fair values of our student loan auction rate securities were determined using a discounted cash flow pricing model that incorporated financial inputs such as projected cash flows, discount rates, expected interest rates to be paid to investors and an estimated liquidity discount. The weighted average life over which cash flows were projected was determined to be approximately nine years, given the collateral composition of the securities. The discount rates that were applied to the pricing model were based on market data and information for comparable or similar term student loan asset backed securities. The discount rates increased by approximately 215 to 300 basis points (2.15 and 3.00 percentage points) in fiscal 2009 due to a widening of credit spreads and increased liquidity discount as a result of the global credit crisis noted above. The expected interest rate to be paid to investors in a failed auction was determined by the contractual terms for each security. The liquidity discount represents an estimate of the additional return an investor would require to compensate for the lack of liquidity of the student loan auction rate securities. We have the ability and intent to hold the student loan auction rate securities until anticipated recovery, which could be at final maturity that ranges from March 2023 to November 2047. All of the Companys student loan auction rate securities are rated AAA with the exception of $8.1 million that were downgraded to A rating during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Our $36.5 million of senior class asset backed securities are secured primarily by bank, finance and insurance company obligations, collateralized loan and bank obligations, credit card debt and mortgage backed securities with no direct U.S. subprime mortgage exposure. The $36.5 million of senior class asset backed securities were measured using observable market data and Level 3 inputs due to the lack of market activity and liquidity. The fair values of these senior class asset backed securities were based on our assessment of the underlying collateral and the creditworthiness of the issuers of the securities. We determined the fair values for the $36.5 million of senior class asset backed securities by using prices from pricing services that could not be corroborated by observable market data. We corroborated the prices from the pricing services using comparable benchmark indexes and securities prices. We have the ability and intent to hold the $36.5 million of senior class asset backed securities until final maturity in November 2009. The $36.5 million of senior class asset backed securities were downgraded by at least one credit rating agency during the past two fiscal quarters and are currently rated or split rated between AAA and BBB rating. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of March 28, 2009 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. This table excludes amounts already recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as current liabilities as of March 28, 2009. Payments Due by Period Less than More than Total 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years 5 years (In millions) Operating lease obligations (1) $ 22.8 $ 8.9 $ 8.4 $ 3.0 $ 2.5 Inventory and other purchase obligations (2) 46.5 46.5 Electronic design automation software licenses (3) 19.7 10.4 9.3 Intellectual property license rights obligations (4) 5.0 5.0 3.125% convertible debentures principal and interest (5) 1,293.1 21.6 43.1 43.1 1,185.3 Total $ 1,387.1 $ 87.4 $ 60.8 $ 46.1 $ 1,192.8 (1) We lease some of our facilities, office buildings and land under non cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through November 2035. Rent expense, net of rental income, under all operating leases was approximately $9.2 million for fiscal 2009. See Note 10. Commitments to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about operating leases. (2) Due to the nature of our business, we depend entirely upon subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and some test services. The lengthy subcontractor lead times require us to order the materials and services in advance, and we are obligated to pay for the materials and services when completed. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services in the next three to six months, as the products meet delivery and quality specifications. (3) As of March 28, 2009, the Company had $19.7 million of non cancelable license obligations to providers of electronic design automation software and hardware/software maintenance expiring at various dates through September 2011. 36 (4) In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company committed up to $20.0 million to acquire, in the future, rights to intellectual property until July 2023. This commitment was reduced to $5.0 million in May 2009. License payments will be amortized over the useful life of the intellectual property acquired. (5) In March 2007, the Company issued $1.00 billion principal amount of 3.125% debentures due March 15, 2037. As a result of the repurchases in fiscal 2009, the remaining carrying value of the debentures on the Companys consolidated balance sheet as of March 28, 2009 was $690.1 million. The debentures require payment of interest at an annual rate of 3.125% payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning September 15, 2007. For purposes of this table we have assumed the principal of our debentures will be paid on March 15, 2037. See Note 14. Convertible Debentures and Revolving Credit Facility to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about our debentures. As of March 28, 2009, $80.7 million of FIN 48 liabilities and related interest and penalties were classified as long term income taxes payable in the consolidated balance sheet. Due to the inherent uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash outflows associated with our FIN 48 liabilities as of March 28, 2009, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority. Therefore, FIN 48 liabilities have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 28, 2009, we did not have any significant off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Concentrations of Risk to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for information about recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.24 billion as of March 28, 2009. Our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. Our investment portfolio includes municipal bonds, floating rate notes, mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate bonds, student loan auction rate securities and U.S. and foreign government and agency securities. In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuers credit rating. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. A hypothetical 100 basis point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by less than $6.0 million and $9.0 million, respectively. Credit Market Risk Since September 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non investment grade securities. The global credit and capital markets have recently experienced further significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system and the current uncertainty related to global economic conditions. As a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that we may incur additional other than temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration. See Note 4. Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about our investments. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained and the hedged relationship has been effective, are deferred and included in income or expenses in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. Gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the consolidated statements of income as they are incurred. 37 We enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our overseas operating expenses and other liabilities when deemed appropriate. As of March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008, we had the following outstanding forward currency exchange contracts: (In thousands and U.S. dollars) March 28, March 29, 2009 2008 Euro $ 51,072 $ 18,616 Singapore dollar 30,123 11,938 Japanese Yen 12,563 5,364 British Pound 6,408 3,022 $ 100,166 $ 38,940 Effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, as part of our strategy to reduce volatility of operating expenses due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, we expanded our hedging program from a one quarter forward outlook to a five quarter forward outlook for major foreign currency denominated operating expenses. The contracts expire at various dates between April 2009 and April 2010. The net unrealized gain or loss, which approximates the fair market value of the above contracts, was immaterial as of March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008. Our investments in several of our wholly owned subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As the financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the U.S. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments. These fluctuations are recorded within stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Other foreign denominated assets and liabilities are revalued on a monthly basis with gains and losses on revaluation reflected in net income. A hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates at March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008 would have affected the annualized foreign currency denominated operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries by less than $8.0 million and $15.0 million, respectively. In addition, a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008 would have affected the value of foreign currency denominated cash and investments by less than $6.0 million as of each date. 38 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Cautionary Statement The statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis that are forward looking, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, involve numerous risks and uncertainties and are based on current expectations. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements for many reasons, including those risks discussed under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this document. Often, forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words, such as may, will, could, should, expect, believe, anticipate, estimate, continue, plan, intend, project and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. We disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward looking statement provided in this Managements Discussion and Analysis for any reason. Nature of Operations We design, develop and market complete programmable logic solutions, including advanced ICs, software design tools, predefined system functions delivered as IP cores, design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. Our PLDs include FPGAs and CPLDs. These devices are standard products that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. Our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time to market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. We sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to OEMs by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The SEC has defined critical accounting policies as those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, our critical accounting policies include: valuation of marketable and non marketable securities, which impacts losses on debt and equity securities when we record impairments; revenue recognition, which impacts the recording of revenues; and valuation of inventories, which impacts cost of revenues and gross margin. Our critical accounting policies also include: the assessment of impairment of long lived assets including acquisition related intangibles, which impacts their valuation; the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill, which impacts goodwill impairment; accounting for income taxes, which impacts the provision or benefit recognized for income taxes, as well as the valuation of deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet; and valuation and recognition of stock based compensation, which impacts gross margin, R&D expenses, and selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. Valuation of Marketable and Non marketable Securities The Companys short term and long term investments include marketable debt securities and non marketable equity securities. As of March 28, 2009, the Company had marketable debt securities with a fair value of $1.24 billion and non marketable equity securities in private companies of $20.5 million (adjusted cost). Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the assessment of fair value is based on the provisions of SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). The Company determines the fair values for marketable debt and equity securities using industry standard pricing services, data providers and other third party sources and by performing valuation analyses. See Note 3. Fair Value Measurements to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for details of the valuation methodologies. In determining if and when a decline in value below adjusted cost of marketable debt and equity securities is other than temporary, the Company evaluates on an ongoing basis the market conditions, trends of earnings, financial condition, credit ratings, any underlying collateral and other key measures for our investments. We assess other than temporary impairment of debt and equity securities in accordance with FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 115 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. We recorded other than temporary impairments for marketable debt securities and a marketable equity security in fiscal 2009. We did not record any other than temporary impairment for marketable debt or equity securities in fiscal 2008 or 2007. 23 The Companys investments in non marketable securities of private companies are accounted for by using the cost method. These investments are measured at fair value on a non recurring basis when they are deemed to be other than temporarily impaired. In determining whether a decline in value of non marketable equity investments in private companies has occurred and is other than temporary, an assessment is made by considering available evidence, including the general market conditions in the investees industry, the investees product development status and subsequent rounds of financing and the related valuation and or our participation in such financings. We also assess the investees ability to meet business milestones and the financial condition and near term prospects of the individual investee, including the rate at which the investee is using its cash and the investees need for possible additional funding at a lower valuation. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the assessment of fair value is based on the provisions of SFAS 157. The valuation methodology for determining the decline in value of non marketable equity securities is based on the factors noted above which require management judgment and are Level 3 inputs. See Note 3. Fair Value Measurements to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information relating to the adoption of SFAS 157. When a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, the Company recognizes an impairment loss in the current periods operating results to the extent of the decline. We recorded other than temporary impairments for non marketable equity securities in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007. Revenue Recognition Sales to distributors are made under agreements providing distributor price adjustments and rights of return under certain circumstances. Revenue and costs relating to distributor sales are deferred until products are sold by the distributors to the distributors end customers. For fiscal 2009, approximately 77% of our net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to OEMs or their subcontract manufacturers. Revenue recognition depends on notification from the distributor that product has been sold to the distributors end customer. Also reported by the distributor are product resale price, quantity and end customer shipment information, as well as inventory on hand. Reported distributor inventory on hand is reconciled to deferred revenue balances monthly. We maintain system controls to validate distributor data and to verify that the reported information is accurate. Deferred income on shipments to distributors reflects the effects of distributor price adjustments and the amount of gross margin expected to be realized when distributors sell through product purchased from the Company. Accounts receivable from distributors are recognized and inventory is relieved when title to inventories transfers, typically upon shipment from Xilinx at which point we have a legally enforceable right to collection under normal payment terms. As of March 28, 2009, we had $90.4 million of deferred revenue and $28.0 million of deferred cost of goods sold recognized as a net $62.4 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. As of March 29, 2008, we had $158.0 million of deferred revenue and $46.3 million of deferred cost of goods sold recognized as a net $111.7 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. The deferred income on shipments to distributors that will ultimately be recognized in our consolidated statement of income will be different than the amount shown on the consolidated balance sheet due to actual price adjustments issued to the distributors when the product is sold to their end customers. Revenue from sales to our direct customers is recognized upon shipment provided that persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, the price is fixed, title has transferred, collection of resulting receivables is reasonably assured, and there are no customer acceptance requirements and no remaining significant obligations. For each of the periods presented, there were no significant formal acceptance provisions with our direct customers. Revenue from software licenses is deferred and recognized as revenue over the term of the licenses of one year. Revenue from support services is recognized when the service is performed. Revenue from Support Products, which includes software and services sales, was less than 7% of net revenues for all of the periods presented. Allowances for end customer sales returns are recorded based on historical experience and for known pending customer returns or allowances. Valuation of Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of actual cost (determined using the first in, first out method) or market (estimated net realizable value). The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate excess or obsolete inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. We review and set standard costs quarterly to approximate current actual manufacturing costs. Our manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of actual spending over actual volumes, adjusted for excess capacity. Given the cyclicality of the market, the obsolescence of technology and product lifecycles, we write down inventory based on forecasted demand and technological obsolescence. These factors are impacted by market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product introductions and changes in strategic direction and require estimates that may include uncertain elements. The estimates of future demand that we use in the valuation of inventory are the basis for our published revenue forecasts, which are also consistent with our short term manufacturing plans. If our demand forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, we could be required to write down additional inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. 24 Impairment of Long Lived Assets Including Acquisition Related Intangibles Long lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets to be held and used are reviewed for impairment if indicators of potential impairment exist. Impairment indicators are reviewed on a quarterly basis. When indicators of impairment exist and assets are held for use, we estimate future undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets. In the event such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the recorded value of the assets, the assets are written down to their estimated fair values based on the expected discounted future cash flows attributable to the assets or based on appraisals. Factors affecting impairment of assets held for use include the ability of the specific assets to generate positive cash flows. When assets are removed from operations and held for sale, we estimate impairment losses as the excess of the carrying value of the assets over their fair value. Factors affecting impairment of assets held for sale include market conditions. Changes in any of these factors could necessitate impairment recognition in future periods for assets held for use or assets held for sale. Long lived assets such as goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant, and equipment, are considered nonfinancial assets, and are only measured at fair value when indicators of impairment exist. The accounting and disclosure provisions of SFAS 157 will not be effective for these assets until the first quarter of fiscal 2010. See Note 3. Fair Value Measurements to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. Goodwill As required by SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142), goodwill is not amortized but is subject to impairment tests on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, and goodwill is written down when it is determined to be impaired. We perform an annual impairment review in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and compare the fair value of the reporting unit in which the goodwill resides to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, the goodwill of the reporting unit is potentially impaired. For purposes of impairment testing under SFAS 142, Xilinx operates as a single reporting unit. We use the quoted market price method to determine the fair value of the reporting unit. Based on the impairment review performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, there was no impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2009. Unless there are indicators of impairment, our next impairment review for goodwill will be performed and completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. To date, no impairment indicators have been identified. Accounting for Income Taxes Xilinx is a multinational corporation operating in multiple tax jurisdictions. We must determine the allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on estimates and assumptions and apply the appropriate tax rates for these jurisdictions. We undergo routine audits by taxing authorities regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Tax audits often require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments if changes to the allocation are required between jurisdictions with different tax rates. In determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. Additionally, we must estimate the amount and likelihood of potential losses arising from audits or deficiency notices issued by taxing authorities. The taxing authorities positions and our assessment can change over time resulting in a material effect on the provision for income taxes in periods when these changes occur. We must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a reserve in the form of a valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable. The Company has elected to adopt the alternative transition method provided in FSP No. FAS 123(R) 3, Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share Based Payment Awards for calculating the tax effects of stock based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R). The alternative transition method includes simplified methods to establish the beginning balance of the APIC pool related to the tax effects of employee stock based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the APIC pool and consolidated statements of cash flows of the tax effects of employee stock based compensation awards that are outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R). In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48. FIN 48 contains a two step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax 25 benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being ultimately realized. See Note 16. Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Stock Based Compensation In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we adopted SFAS 123(R), which requires the measurement at fair value and recognition of compensation expense for all stock based payment awards. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of stock based awards at the date of grant requires judgment. We use the Black Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of employee stock options and rights to purchase shares under the Companys Employee Stock Purchase Plan, consistent with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). Option pricing models, including the Black Scholes model, also require the use of input assumptions, including expected stock price volatility, expected life, expected dividend rate, expected forfeiture rate and expected risk free rate of return. We use implied volatility based on traded options in the open market as we believe implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility. In determining the appropriateness of implied volatility, we considered: the volume of market activity of traded options, and determined there was sufficient market activity; the ability to reasonably match the input variables of traded options to those of options granted by the Company, such as date of grant and the exercise price, and determined the input assumptions were comparable; and the length of term of traded options used to derive implied volatility, which is generally one to two years and which was extrapolated to match the expected term of the employee options granted by the Company, and determined the length of the option term was reasonable. The expected life of options granted is based on the historical exercise activity as well as the expected disposition of all options outstanding. We will continue to review our input assumptions and make changes as deemed appropriate depending on new information that becomes available. Higher volatility and expected lives result in a proportional increase to stock based compensation determined at the date of grant. The expected dividend rate and expected risk free rate of return do not have as significant an effect on the calculation of fair value. In addition, SFAS 123(R) requires us to develop an estimate of the number of stock based awards which will be forfeited due to employee turnover. Quarterly changes in the estimated forfeiture rate have an effect on reported stock based compensation, as the effect of adjusting the rate for all expense amortization after April 1, 2006 is recognized in the period the forfeiture estimate is changed. If the actual forfeiture rate is higher than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to increase the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in a decrease to the expense recognized in the financial statements. If the actual forfeiture rate is lower than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to decrease the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in an increase to the expense recognized in the financial statements. The effect of forfeiture adjustments in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 was insignificant. The expense we recognize in future periods could also differ significantly from the current period and or our forecasts due to adjustments in the assumed forfeiture rates. Results of Operations The following table sets forth statement of income data as a percentage of net revenues for the fiscal years indicated: 2009 2008 2007 Net Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 36.7 37.3 39.0 Gross Margin 63.3 62.7 61.0 Operating Expenses: Research and development 19.5 19.4 21.1 Selling, general and administrative 18.8 19.9 20.4 Amortization of acquisition related intangibles 0.3 0.4 0.4 Restructuring charges 1.2 0.0 0.0 Litigation settlement 0.0 0.0 0.1 Stock based compensation related to prior years 0.0 0.0 0.1 Total operating expenses 39.8 39.7 42.1 Operating Income 23.5 23.0 18.9 Gain on early extinguishment of convertible debentures 6.1 0.0 0.0 Impairment loss on investments (3.0 ) (0.2 ) (0.1 ) Interest and other income, net 0.7 2.9 4.6 Income Before Income Taxes 27.3 25.7 23.4 Provision for income taxes 6.7 5.4 4.4 Net Income 20.6 % 20.3 % 19.0 % 26 Net Revenues (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Net revenues $1,825.2 (1)% $1,841.4 0% $1,842.7 The 1% decline in net revenues in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 was largely due to the recessionary environment we experienced during the fiscal year which impacted our sales across a broad base of end markets. New Product revenue increased considerably in fiscal 2009 but not enough to fully offset the declines in Base and Mainstream Products. Total unit sales declined in fiscal 2009 but average selling price per unit increased compared to the comparable prior year period. The relatively flat net revenues in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 was driven by strong customer demand for our New Products which was offset by decreased demand for our Mainstream and Base Products, particularly in the Communications and Data Processing end markets. Increased total unit sales during fiscal 2008 compared to the comparable prior year period were offset by declines in average unit selling prices, which also contributed to the flat net revenues in fiscal 2008. See Net Revenues by Product and Net Revenues by End Markets below for more information on our product and end market categories. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of net revenues for any of the periods presented. Net Revenues by Product We classify our product offerings into four categories: New, Mainstream, Base and Support Products. These product categories, excluding Support Products, are modified on a periodic basis to better reflect advances in technology. The most recent adjustment was made on July 2, 2006, which was the beginning of our second quarter of fiscal 2007. New Products, as currently defined, include our most recent product offerings and include the Virtex 5, Virtex 4, Spartan 3 and CoolRunner II product families. Mainstream Products include the Virtex II, Spartan II, CoolRunner and Virtex E product families. Mainstream products are generally several years old and designed into customer programs that are currently shipping in full production. Base Products consist of our older product families including the Virtex, Spartan, XC4000 and XC9500 products. Support Products make up the remainder of our product offerings and include configuration products, software, IP cores, customer training, design services and support. In fiscal 2010, we expect to reclassify our net revenues by product categories to better reflect the age of the products and advances in technologies. Net revenues by product categories for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: % of % % of % % of (In millions) 2009 Total Change 2008 Total Change 2007 Total New Products $ 847.9 47 40 $ 604.2 33 45 $ 416.8 23 Mainstream Products 673.0 37 (21 ) 849.8 46 (15 ) 1,004.2 54 Base Products 206.3 11 (26 ) 277.7 15 (12 ) 317.2 17 Support Products 98.0 5 (11 ) 109.7 6 5 104.5 6 Total net revenues $ 1,825.2 100 (1 ) $ 1,841.4 100 0 $ 1,842.7 100 Net revenues from New Products increased significantly in fiscal 2009 compared to the prior year period due to continued strong market acceptance of these products, primarily Virtex 5, Virtex 4 and Spartan 3E. In fiscal 2009, Virtex 5 sales nearly tripled and net revenues from our Virtex 4 and Spartan 3 product families each grew in double digits. These products, along with our CoolRunner II family of CPLDs, contributed to the majority of the revenue growth in New Products in fiscal 2008. We expect sales of New Products to continue to increase over time as more customers programs go into volume production with our 65 nm and 90 nm products. Net revenues from Mainstream Products declined in fiscal 2009 and 2008 primarily due to a decline in sales of some of our older generation products that were introduced to the market more than seven years ago. The decline in net revenues from Base Products in fiscal 2009 and 2008 was expected since these products are mature and approaching the end of life. Net revenues from Support Products decreased in fiscal 2009 compared to the prior year period primarily due to a decline in sales from our PROM products. Net revenues from Support Products increased in fiscal 2008 due to modest increases in sales from our software products. 27 Net Revenues by End Markets Our end market revenue data is derived from our understanding of our end customers primary markets. We classify our net revenues by end markets into four categories: Communications, Industrial and Other, Consumer and Automotive, and Data Processing. The percentage change calculation in the table below represents the year to year dollar change in each end market. Net revenues by end markets for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: % Change % Change (% of total net revenues) 2009 in Dollars 2008 in Dollars 2007 Communications 44 % 1 43 % (5 ) 45 % Industrial and Other 32 1 32 11 29 Consumer and Automotive 16 (6 ) 17 4 16 Data Processing 8 (9 ) 8 (14 ) 10 Total net revenues 100 % (1 ) 100 % 0 100 % Net revenues from Communications, our largest end market, increased in fiscal 2009 compared to the prior year period primarily due to the strength in wireless communication applications. Sales to customers in the wireless space were particularly strong during fiscal 2009 as a result of next generation wireless activity in China. In fiscal 2008, net revenues from Communications decreased primarily due to decreased sales from wireless communication applications, much of which was driven by merger and consolidation activity in that market. Net revenues from the Industrial and Other end market increased in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period due to strong sales growth from aerospace and defense and industrial, scientific and medical applications. However, this growth was offset considerably by weakness in test and measurement applications. In fiscal 2008, net revenues from the Industrial and Other end market increased due to broad based strength across all applications including defense, industrial, scientific and medical and test and measurement. Net revenues from the Consumer and Automotive end market decreased in fiscal 2009 from the comparable prior year due to weaker sales from audio, video and broadcast and automotive applications, which was partially offset by an increase in sales from consumer applications. In fiscal 2008, net revenues from the Consumer and Automotive end market increased primarily due to strength in automotive applications. The decrease in net revenues from the Data Processing end market in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period was mainly driven by decreases in sales from computing and data processing applications. In fiscal 2008, net revenues from the Data Processing end market declined due to decreases in sales from storage as well as computing and data processing applications. Net Revenues by Geography Geographic revenue information reflects the geographic location of the distributors or OEMs who purchased our products. This may differ from the geographic location of the end customers. Net revenues by geography for the fiscal years indicated were as follows: % of % % of % % of (In millions) 2009 Total Change 2008 Total Change 2007 Total North America $ 627.7 34 (13 ) $ 717.8 39 (2 ) $ 731.3 40 Asia Pacific 603.0 33 15 526.3 29 13 466.6 25 Europe 411.6 23 1 407.2 22 (5 ) 426.9 23 Japan 182.9 10 (4 ) 190.1 10 (13 ) 217.9 12 Total net revenues $ 1,825.2 100 (1 ) $ 1,841.4 100 0 $ 1,842.7 100 Net revenues in North America decreased in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period primarily due to lower sales from the Communications end market. The decrease in net revenues during fiscal 2008 was driven primarily by a decline in sales from wireless communications as well as data processing applications. Net revenues in Asia Pacific increased in double digits during fiscal 2009, driven by strength in the Communications end market, primarily from next generation wireless applications in China. The increase in net revenues in fiscal 2008 was due to broad based end market strength, with particular strength coming from customers in the Communications and Industrial and Other end markets. Asia Pacific sales continued to benefit from outsourcing of manufacturing operations by large U.S. and European based customers to the Asia Pacific region. Net revenues in Europe increased in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period primarily due to strength in wireless communication applications. Net revenues decreased in fiscal 2008 primarily due to lower sales from wireless communication applications. 28 Net revenues in Japan decreased in fiscal 2009 compared to the same period last year due to broad based weakness across most end market categories with the exception of the Consumer and Automotive end market. The fiscal 2008 decline was due to broad based weakness across all end market categories. Gross Margin (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Gross margin $1,156.0 0% $1,154.4 3% $1,124.1 Percentage of net revenues 63.3% 62.7% 61.0% The increase in the gross margin percentage in fiscal 2009 from the comparable prior year period was driven primarily by product cost reductions, higher average selling prices per unit, stabilization of our New Products and improved operational efficiency. The increase in the gross margin percentage in fiscal 2008 from the comparable prior year period was driven primarily by product cost reductions and improved operational efficiency. This favorable impact was partially offset by the product mix effect of New Product growth year over year. New Products generally have lower gross margins than Mainstream and Base Products in the early product life cycle due to higher unit costs resulting from lower yields. As a percentage of total net revenues, New Product sales increased by approximately 10% from fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2008. Gross margin may be affected in the future due to mix shifts, competitive pricing pressure, manufacturing yield issues and wafer pricing. We expect to mitigate any adverse impacts from these factors by continuing to improve yields on our New Products and by improving manufacturing efficiencies. Sales of inventory previously written off were not material during fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007. In order to compete effectively, we pass manufacturing cost reductions on to our customers in the form of reduced prices to the extent that we can maintain acceptable margins. Price erosion is common in the semiconductor industry, as advances in both product architecture and manufacturing process technology permit continual reductions in unit cost. We have historically been able to offset much of this revenue decline in our mature products with increased revenues from newer products. Research and Development (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Research and development $355.4 (1)% $358.1 (8)% $388.1 Percentage of net revenues 19% 19% 21% R&D spending decreased $2.7 million or 1% during fiscal 2009 compared to the same period last year. The decrease was attributable to lower mask and wafer spending and reduced stock based compensation expense, which was partially offset by increased outside services to support our investments in new product development. R&D spending decreased $30.0 million or 8% during fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. The decrease was primarily due to reduced stock based compensation expense and lower mask and wafer spending, coupled with lower cost related to our R&D center in India. We plan to continue to selectively invest in R&D efforts in areas such as new products and more advanced process development, IP cores and the development of new design and layout software. We will also consider acquisitions to complement our strategy for technology leadership and engineering resources in critical areas. Selling, General and Administrative (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Selling, general and administrative $343.8 (6)% $365.3 (3)% $375.5 Percentage of net revenues 19% 20% 20% SG&A expenses decreased $21.5 million or 6% during fiscal 2009 compared to the same period last year. The decrease was primarily due to headcount reduction as a result of a functional reorganization, lower sales commissions and lower stock based compensation expense, which was partially offset by higher litigation costs. 29 SG&A expenses decreased $10.2 million or 3% during fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007. The decrease was attributable to lower stock based compensation expense, reduced discretionary spending and lower sales commissions. The reductions in discretionary spending included consulting, travel and marketing expenses. Amortization of Acquisition Related Intangibles (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Amortization of acquisition related intangibles $5.3 (22)% $6.8 (15)% $8.0 Amortization expense was related to the intangible assets acquired from prior acquisitions. Amortization expense for these intangible assets decreased for fiscal 2009 from the same period last year, due to the complete amortization of certain intangible assets in fiscal 2008. Amortization expense for these intangible assets decreased for fiscal 2008 from fiscal 2007, due to the complete amortization of certain intangible assets in fiscal 2007. We expect amortization of acquisition related intangibles to be approximately $1.5 million for fiscal 2010 compared with $5.3 million for fiscal 2009. Restructuring Charges In June 2008, we announced a functional reorganization pursuant to which we eliminated 249 positions, or approximately 7% of our global workforce. These employee terminations occurred across various geographies and functions worldwide. The reorganization plan was completed by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2009. We recorded total restructuring charges of $22.0 million in connection with the reorganization. These charges consisted of $19.5 million of severance pay and benefits expenses which were recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and $2.5 million of facility related costs and severance benefits expenses which were recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. The following table summarizes the restructuring accrual activity for fiscal 2009: Employee Facility severance and related (In millions) benefits costs Total Balance as of March 29, 2008 $ $ $ Accruals during the period 20.5 1.5 22.0 Cash payments (20.0 ) (0.6 ) (20.6 ) Non cash settlements (0.5 ) (0.2 ) (0.7 ) Balance as of March 28, 2009 $ $ 0.7 $ 0.7 The charges above have been shown separately as restructuring charges on the consolidated statements of income. The remaining accrual as of March 28, 2009 relates to facility related costs that are expected to be paid over the remaining lease terms of the closed facilities expiring at various dates through December 2012. We estimate that severance and benefits expenses incurred to date will result in gross annual savings of approximately $35.0 million, including approximately $30.0 million of cash savings before taxes and approximately $5.0 million of stock based compensation expense. We began realizing the majority of these savings, primarily within the SG&A and R&D expense categories, beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. There can be no assurance that these expected future savings will be completely realized as they may be partially offset by increases in other expenses. See Note 21. Subsequent Events to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for information relating to a restructuring announced on April 15, 2009. Litigation Settlement On November 27, 2006, the Company settled a patent infringement lawsuit under which the Company agreed to pay $6.5 million. The plaintiff agreed to dismiss the patent infringement lawsuit with prejudice, granted a patent license to the Company and executed an agreement not to sue the Company under any patent owned or controlled by the plaintiff for ten years. As a result of the settlement agreement, we recorded a current period charge of $2.5 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2007. The remaining balance of $4.0 million represented the value of the prepaid patent license granted as part of the settlement. This balance is being amortized over the patents remaining useful life of nine years. 30 Stock Based Compensation (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Stock based compensation included in: Cost of revenues $ 5.8 (24 )% $ 7.6 (26 )% $ 10.4 Research and development 25.0 (20 )% 31.4 (24 )% 41.6 Selling, general and administrative 23.1 (16 )% 27.4 (29 )% 38.3 Restructuring charges 0.6 Stock based compensation related to prior years 2.2 $ 54.5 (18 )% $ 66.4 (28 )% $ 92.5 The $11.9 million decrease in stock based compensation expense for fiscal 2009 was due to a decrease in the number of shares granted, declining weighted average fair values of stock awards vesting and an increase in the number of shares cancelled due to the June 2008 restructuring. The $26.1 million decrease in stock based compensation expense for fiscal 2008 was due to a decrease in the number of shares granted, declining weighted average fair values of stock awards vesting and lower expense related to a methodology change from accelerated to straight line amortization in connection with the adoption of SFAS 123(R). Total stock based compensation expense during fiscal 2007 related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) was $90.3 million, excluding one time expense of $2.2 million relating to prior years under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations, using the intrinsic value method. In June 2006, stockholder derivative complaints were filed against the Company concerning the Companys historical option granting practices and the SEC initiated an informal inquiry on the matter. An investigation of the Companys historical stock option granting practices was conducted by outside counsel and no evidence of fraud, management misconduct or manipulation in the timing or exercise price of stock option grants was found. The investigation determined that in nearly all cases, stock options were issued as of pre set dates; however, there were some minor differences between the recorded grant dates and measurement dates for certain grants made between 1997 and 2006. As a result, a $2.2 million charge was taken to the Companys earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Subsequently the SEC informal inquiry was terminated and no enforcement action was recommended and the stockholder derivative complaints were dismissed. The income tax effect of the charge resulted in a benefit of $650 thousand, which was recorded to income tax expense. The Company assessed the implications of applicable income tax rules that may affect the Company. The tax benefit recorded is net of such potential costs. Gain on Early Extinguishment of Convertible Debentures In the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009, we paid $193.2 million in cash to repurchase $310.4 million (principal amount) of our debentures and recognized a gain on early extinguishment of convertible debentures of $110.6 million, net of the write off of the pro rata portions of unamortized debt issuance costs ($5.8 million) and unamortized derivative valuation ($736 thousand). Accrued interest paid at the time of repurchases totaled $2.4 million. Impairment Loss on Investments (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Impairment loss on investments $54.1 1,799% $2.9 46% $2.0 Percentage of net revenues 3% 0% 0% During fiscal 2009, we recorded total impairment losses related to senior class asset backed securities of $38.0 million, which represented the original purchase price of these securities, excluding accrued interest. The senior class asset backed securities were partially written off in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 due to default by the issuer in October 2008. At the time of the initial write off of $19.8 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we understood, based on the issuers prospectus disclosures that investors would be repaid proportionally and without preference. In October 2008, the issuer went into receivership. The receiver subsequently sought judicial interpretation of a provision of a legal document governing the issuers securities. As a result of the outcome of the judicial determination, the receiver immediately liquidated the substantial majority of the issuers assets, and in accordance with the court order, the proceeds were used to repay short term liabilities in the order in which they fell due. In December 2008, the receiver reported to the issuers creditors the outcome of the judicial determination and that the issuers liabilities substantially exceeded its assets. As a result, the receiver estimated that the issuer would not be able to pay any liabilities falling due after October 2008 regardless of the seniority or status of the securities. Our investments in these senior class asset backed securities mature in September 2009 and September 2010. Based on these new developments, we concluded that we are not likely to recover the 31 During the second quarter of fiscal 2009, the issuer of one of the marketable debt securities in our investment portfolio filed for bankruptcy resulting in a significant decline in the fair value of this security. The original purchase price of this security, excluding accrued interest, was $10.0 million. Based upon the available market and financial data for the issuer, the decline in market value was deemed to be other than temporary and we recorded impairment losses of $9.0 million, including $8.4 million in the second quarter and $600 thousand in the third quarter of fiscal 2009. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we recognized an additional impairment loss of $1.0 million on marketable debt securities in our investment portfolio. During fiscal 2009, we recognized a $3.1 million impairment loss as a result of a continuous decline that began in fiscal 2008 in the market value of our investment in a marketable equity security. We believed that the decline in the market value was other than temporary and it was deemed to be worthless as of September 27, 2008. We recognized an impairment loss on our investment in this marketable equity security during the first and second quarters of fiscal 2009. We recorded impairment losses of $3.0 million, $2.9 million and $2.0 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to our investment in non marketable equity securities in private companies. These impairment losses resulted primarily from weak financial conditions of certain investees, certain investees diluting our investment through the receipt of additional rounds of investment at a lower valuation or from the liquidation of certain investees. Interest and Other Income, Net (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Interest and other income, net $12.2 (77)% $52.7 (38)% $85.3 Percentage of net revenues 1% 3% 5% The decrease in interest and other income, net in fiscal 2009 over the prior year was due primarily to a decrease in interest rates and a smaller investment portfolio. The average interest rate yield decreased by approximately 200 basis points (two percentage points) year over year. The decrease in interest and other income, net in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007 was due to the interest expense ($32.0 million) related to the debentures issued in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 as well as a loss of approximately $4.7 million from the sale of the Companys remaining UMC investment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in interest income of $13.6 million in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007 due to higher yields resulting from investing in taxable securities and a larger investment portfolio. See Note 12. Interest and Other Income, Net to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Provision for Income Taxes (In millions) 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Provision for income taxes $122.5 22% $100.0 24% $80.5 Percentage of net revenues 7% 5% 4% Effective tax rate 25% 21% 19% The effective tax rates in all years reflected the favorable impact of foreign income at statutory rates less than the U.S. rate and tax credits earned. The increase in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2009, when compared with fiscal 2008, was primarily due to the gain on early extinguishment of debentures taxable at U.S. tax rates. The increase was partially offset by the benefit of retroactive extension of the research credit in fiscal 2009. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 was signed into law. This legislation extended the federal research credit through the end of calendar 2009. The increase in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2008, when compared with fiscal 2007, was primarily due to items unique to fiscal 2007 reducing the rates for the prior year period. The IRS examined the Companys tax returns for fiscal 1996 through 2001. All issues have been settled with the exception of issues related to Xilinx U.S.s cost sharing arrangement with Xilinx Ireland. On August 30, 2005, the Tax Court issued its opinion concerning whether the value of stock options must be included in the cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Tax Court agreed with the Company that no amount for stock options was to be included in the cost sharing agreement. Accordingly, there were no additional taxes, penalties or interest due for this issue. The Tax Court entered its decision on May 31, 2006. On August 25, 2006, the IRS appealed the decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. On May 27, 2009, the Company received a 2 1 adverse judicial ruling from the Appeals Court reversing the Tax Court decision and holding that the Company should include stock option amounts in its cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Company does not agree with the Appeals Court decision and is reviewing its alternatives as a result of the decision. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings included in Part I and Note 16. Income Taxes, Note 18. Litigation Settlements and Contingencies, and Note 21. Subsequent Events to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 32 Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources We have historically used a combination of cash flows from operations and equity and debt financing to support ongoing business activities, acquire or invest in critical or complementary technologies, purchase facilities and capital equipment, repurchase our common stock and debentures under our repurchase program, pay dividends and finance working capital. Additionally, our investments in debt securities are available for future sale. Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short term and Long term Investments The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short term and long term investments as of March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008 totaled $1.67 billion and $1.86 billion, respectively. As of March 28, 2009, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.32 billion and working capital of $1.52 billion. Cash provided by operations of $442.5 million for fiscal 2009 was $138.5 million lower than the $581.0 million generated during fiscal 2008. Cash provided by operations during fiscal 2009 resulted primarily from net income as adjusted for non cash related items, an increase in deferred income taxes and a decrease in accounts receivable, which were partially offset by decreases in accrued liabilities and deferred income on shipments to distributors. Net cash provided by investing activities was $274.5 million during fiscal 2009, as compared to $192.0 million in fiscal 2008. Net cash provided by investing activities during fiscal 2009 consisted of $314.4 million of net proceeds from the sale and maturity of available for sale securities. These items were partially offset by $39.1 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment (see further discussion below) and $793 thousand of other investing activities. Net cash used in financing activities was $518.1 million in fiscal 2009, as compared to $541.9 million in fiscal 2008. Net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2009 consisted of $193.2 million for the repurchase of debentures, $275.0 million for the repurchase of common stock and $154.5 million for dividend payments to stockholders. These items were partially offset by $99.8 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and $4.8 million for excess tax benefits from stock based compensation. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful accounts, customer returns and distributor pricing adjustments decreased 13% from $249.1 million at the end of fiscal 2008 to $216.4 million at the end of fiscal 2009. Days sales outstanding decreased to 43 days as of March 28, 2009 from 49 days as of March 29, 2008. The decreases were primarily attributable to a decrease in net shipments and weaker linearity of shipments at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 compared to the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Inventories Inventories decreased from $130.3 million as of March 29, 2008 to $119.8 million as of March 28, 2009. The combined inventory days at Xilinx and distribution channel decreased to 80 days as of March 28, 2009, compared to 94 days as of March 29, 2008. The decreases were primarily due to lower inventory at Xilinx and in the distributor channel as a result of declining revenues due to lower anticipated demand and more effective inventory management processes. We attempt to maintain sufficient levels of inventory in various product, package and speed configurations in order to keep lead times short and to meet forecasted customer demand. Conversely, we also attempt to minimize the handling costs associated with maintaining higher inventory levels and to fully realize the opportunities for cost reductions associated with architecture and manufacturing process advancements. We continually strive to balance these two objectives to provide excellent customer response at a competitive cost. Property, Plant and Equipment During fiscal 2009, we invested $39.1 million in property, plant and equipment compared to $45.6 million in fiscal 2008. Primary investments in fiscal 2009 were for building improvements, test equipment, computer equipment and software. We expect that property, plant and equipment expenditures will decrease in the near future due to expense controls and the current recessionary economic environment. 33 Current Liabilities Current liabilities decreased from $340.7 million at the end of fiscal 2008 to $233.1 million at the end of fiscal 2009. The decrease was primarily due to the decreases in income taxes payable and deferred income on shipments to distributors. The decrease in deferred income on shipments to distributors was due to a decrease in distributor inventories as of March 28, 2009 compared to the prior year. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity increased $66.1 million during fiscal 2009, from $1.67 billion in fiscal 2008 to $1.74 billion in fiscal 2009. The increase in stockholders equity was attributable to net income of $375.6 million for fiscal 2009, the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and other of $96.4 million, stock based compensation related amounts totaling $54.1 million and the related tax benefits associated with stock option exercises and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan of $4.2 million. The increases were partially offset by the repurchase of common stock of $275.0 million, the payment of dividends to stockholders of $154.5 million, an adjustment to the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 of $10.1 million, unrealized losses on available for sale securities, net of deferred tax benefits, of $14.9 million, cumulative translation adjustment of $7.7 million and unrealized hedging transaction losses totaling $2.0 million. Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007 Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short term and Long term Investments The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short term and long term investments as of March 29, 2008 and March 31, 2007 totaled $1.86 billion and $1.81 billion, respectively. As of March 29, 2008, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.30 billion and working capital of $1.48 billion. Cash provided by operations of $581.0 million for fiscal 2008 was $29.4 million higher than the $551.6 million generated during fiscal 2007. Cash provided by operations during fiscal 2008 resulted primarily from net income as adjusted for non cash related items, decreases in inventories and prepaid expenses and increases in income taxes payable and deferred income on shipments to distributors which were partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable. The decrease in prepaid expenses in fiscal 2008 was primarily related to the utilization of the advance wafer purchase payment paid to Toshiba. In October 2004, we entered into an advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba under which the Company paid Toshiba a total of $100.0 million for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement, which expired in December 2006 and was extended until December 2008. The entire advance payment of $100.0 million was reduced by wafer purchases from Toshiba. As of March 29, 2008, the unused balance of the advance payment remaining was $4.5 million. Net cash provided by investing activities was $192.0 million during fiscal 2008, as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $283.8 million in fiscal 2007. Net cash provided by investing activities during fiscal 2008 consisted of $232.2 million of net proceeds from the sale and maturity of available for sale securities, including $47.1 million of net proceeds from the sale of the remaining UMC investment, and a distribution from UMC of $10.7 million. These items were partially offset by $45.6 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment (see further discussion below) and $5.3 million of other investing activities. Net cash used in financing activities was $541.9 million in fiscal 2008, as compared to $415.3 million in fiscal 2007. Net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2008 consisted of $550.0 million for the repurchase of common stock and $140.0 million for dividend payments to stockholders. These items were partially offset by $125.6 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and $22.5 million for excess tax benefits from stock based compensation. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful accounts, customer returns and distributor pricing adjustments increased 37% from $182.3 million at the end of fiscal 2007 to $249.1 million at the end of fiscal 2008. Days sales outstanding increased to 49 days as of March 29, 2008 from 36 days as of March 31, 2007. The increases were primarily attributable to the timing of payments from customers, credit issuance and the timing of shipments during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Inventories Inventories decreased from $174.6 million as of March 31, 2007 to $130.3 million as of March 29, 2008. The combined inventory days at Xilinx and distribution channel decreased to 94 days as of March 29, 2008, compared to 112 days as of March 31, 2007. The decreases were primarily due to improved forecasting accuracy and fewer inventory mix issues. 34 Property, Plant and Equipment During fiscal 2008, we invested $45.6 million in property, plant and equipment compared to $110.8 million in fiscal 2007. Primary investments in fiscal 2008 were for computer equipment, software, test equipment, and building and leasehold improvements. The decrease in fiscal 2008 was primarily attributable to the accumulated construction costs incurred in fiscal 2007 in connection with our Asia Pacific regional headquarters building in Singapore, which was completed in June 2007, and the purchase in February 2007 of a parcel of land for $28.6 million near our headquarters in San Jose for future potential growth purposes, neither of which was repeated in fiscal 2008. We do not intend to build on the land for the foreseeable future. Current Liabilities Current liabilities increased from $303.4 million at the end of fiscal 2007 to $340.7 million at the end of fiscal 2008. The increase was primarily due to the increases in deferred income on shipments to distributors and accrued payroll and related liabilities, which were partially offset by the decrease in accounts payable. The increase in deferred income on shipments to distributors was due to an increase in distributor inventories at March 29, 2008 compared to the prior year. Stockholders Equity Stockholders equity decreased $100.9 million during fiscal 2008, from $1.77 billion in fiscal 2007 to $1.67 billion in fiscal 2008. The decrease in stockholders equity was attributable to the repurchase of common stock of $550.0 million, the payment of dividends to stockholders of $140.0 million and unrealized losses on available for sale securities, net of deferred tax benefits, of $1.8 million. The decreases were partially offset by net income of $374.0 million for fiscal 2008, the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans of $124.7 million, stock based compensation related amounts totaling $65.8 million, the related tax benefits associated with stock option exercises and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan of $15.8 million, the effect of the adoption of FIN 48 totaling $6.5 million, cumulative translation adjustment of $3.1 million and hedging transaction gains totaling $1.0 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash generated from operations is used as our primary source of liquidity and capital resources. Our investment portfolio is also available for future cash requirements as is our $250.0 million revolving credit facility entered into in April 2007. We are not aware of any lack of access to the revolving credit facility; however, we can provide no assurance that access to the credit facility will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. Our credit facility is not reliant upon a single bank. There have been no borrowings to date under our existing revolving credit facility. We also have a shelf registration on file with the SEC pursuant to which we may offer an indeterminate amount of debt, equity and other securities in the future to augment our liquidity and capital resources. We used $275.0 million of cash to repurchase 10.8 million shares of our common stock in fiscal 2009 compared with $550.0 million used to repurchase 23.5 million shares in fiscal 2008. In addition, during fiscal 2009, we paid $193.2 million of cash to repurchase $310.4 million (principal amount) of our debentures resulting in a net gain on early extinguishment of debentures of $110.6 million. During fiscal 2009, we paid $154.5 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing an aggregate amount of $0.56 per common share. During fiscal 2008, we paid $140.0 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing an aggregate amount of $0.48 per common share. In addition, on April 21, 2009, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.14 per common share for the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The dividend is payable on June 3, 2009 to stockholders of record on May 13, 2009. Our common stock and debentures repurchase program and dividend policy could be impacted by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements relating to R&D, investments and acquisitions, legal risks, principal and interest payments on our debentures and other strategic investments. The global credit crisis has imposed exceptional levels of volatility and disruption in the capital markets, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, and increased counterparty risk. Nevertheless, we anticipate that existing sources of liquidity and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future. We will continue to evaluate opportunities for investments to obtain additional wafer capacity, procurement of additional capital equipment and facilities, development of new products, and potential acquisitions of technologies or businesses that could complement our business. However, the risk factors discussed in Item 1A included in Part I and below could affect our cash positions adversely. In addition, certain types of investments such as asset backed securities may present risks arising from liquidity and or credit concerns. In the event that our investments in auction rate securities and senior class asset backed securities become illiquid, we do not expect this will materially affect our liquidity and capital resources or results of operations. As of March 28, 2009, marketable securities measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs were comprised of $58.4 million of student loan auction rate securities and $36.5 million of asset backed securities within our available for sale investment portfolio. The amount of assets and liabilities measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) as a percentage of the total assets and liabilities measured at fair value was less than 6% as of March 28, 2009. See Note 3. Fair Value Measurements to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information. Auction failures 35 during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and the lack of market activity and liquidity required that our student loan auction rate securities be measured using observable market data and Level 3 inputs. The fair values of our student loan auction rate securities were based on our assessment of the underlying collateral and the creditworthiness of the issuers of the securities. More than 98% of the underlying assets that secure the student loan auction rate securities are pools of student loans originated under FFELP that are substantially guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Education. The fair values of our student loan auction rate securities were determined using a discounted cash flow pricing model that incorporated financial inputs such as projected cash flows, discount rates, expected interest rates to be paid to investors and an estimated liquidity discount. The weighted average life over which cash flows were projected was determined to be approximately nine years, given the collateral composition of the securities. The discount rates that were applied to the pricing model were based on market data and information for comparable or similar term student loan asset backed securities. The discount rates increased by approximately 215 to 300 basis points (2.15 and 3.00 percentage points) in fiscal 2009 due to a widening of credit spreads and increased liquidity discount as a result of the global credit crisis noted above. The expected interest rate to be paid to investors in a failed auction was determined by the contractual terms for each security. The liquidity discount represents an estimate of the additional return an investor would require to compensate for the lack of liquidity of the student loan auction rate securities. We have the ability and intent to hold the student loan auction rate securities until anticipated recovery, which could be at final maturity that ranges from March 2023 to November 2047. All of the Companys student loan auction rate securities are rated AAA with the exception of $8.1 million that were downgraded to A rating during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Our $36.5 million of senior class asset backed securities are secured primarily by bank, finance and insurance company obligations, collateralized loan and bank obligations, credit card debt and mortgage backed securities with no direct U.S. subprime mortgage exposure. The $36.5 million of senior class asset backed securities were measured using observable market data and Level 3 inputs due to the lack of market activity and liquidity. The fair values of these senior class asset backed securities were based on our assessment of the underlying collateral and the creditworthiness of the issuers of the securities. We determined the fair values for the $36.5 million of senior class asset backed securities by using prices from pricing services that could not be corroborated by observable market data. We corroborated the prices from the pricing services using comparable benchmark indexes and securities prices. We have the ability and intent to hold the $36.5 million of senior class asset backed securities until final maturity in November 2009. The $36.5 million of senior class asset backed securities were downgraded by at least one credit rating agency during the past two fiscal quarters and are currently rated or split rated between AAA and BBB rating. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of March 28, 2009 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. This table excludes amounts already recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as current liabilities as of March 28, 2009. Payments Due by Period Less than More than Total 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years 5 years (In millions) Operating lease obligations (1) $ 22.8 $ 8.9 $ 8.4 $ 3.0 $ 2.5 Inventory and other purchase obligations (2) 46.5 46.5 Electronic design automation software licenses (3) 19.7 10.4 9.3 Intellectual property license rights obligations (4) 5.0 5.0 3.125% convertible debentures principal and interest (5) 1,293.1 21.6 43.1 43.1 1,185.3 Total $ 1,387.1 $ 87.4 $ 60.8 $ 46.1 $ 1,192.8 (1) We lease some of our facilities, office buildings and land under non cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through November 2035. Rent expense, net of rental income, under all operating leases was approximately $9.2 million for fiscal 2009. See Note 10. Commitments to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about operating leases. (2) Due to the nature of our business, we depend entirely upon subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and some test services. The lengthy subcontractor lead times require us to order the materials and services in advance, and we are obligated to pay for the materials and services when completed. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services in the next three to six months, as the products meet delivery and quality specifications. (3) As of March 28, 2009, the Company had $19.7 million of non cancelable license obligations to providers of electronic design automation software and hardware/software maintenance expiring at various dates through September 2011. 36 (4) In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company committed up to $20.0 million to acquire, in the future, rights to intellectual property until July 2023. This commitment was reduced to $5.0 million in May 2009. License payments will be amortized over the useful life of the intellectual property acquired. (5) In March 2007, the Company issued $1.00 billion principal amount of 3.125% debentures due March 15, 2037. As a result of the repurchases in fiscal 2009, the remaining carrying value of the debentures on the Companys consolidated balance sheet as of March 28, 2009 was $690.1 million. The debentures require payment of interest at an annual rate of 3.125% payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning September 15, 2007. For purposes of this table we have assumed the principal of our debentures will be paid on March 15, 2037. See Note 14. Convertible Debentures and Revolving Credit Facility to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about our debentures. As of March 28, 2009, $80.7 million of FIN 48 liabilities and related interest and penalties were classified as long term income taxes payable in the consolidated balance sheet. Due to the inherent uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash outflows associated with our FIN 48 liabilities as of March 28, 2009, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority. Therefore, FIN 48 liabilities have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 28, 2009, we did not have any significant off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Concentrations of Risk to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for information about recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $1.24 billion as of March 28, 2009. Our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. Our investment portfolio includes municipal bonds, floating rate notes, mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities, bank certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate bonds, student loan auction rate securities and U.S. and foreign government and agency securities. In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuers credit rating. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. A hypothetical 100 basis point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by less than $6.0 million and $9.0 million, respectively. Credit Market Risk Since September 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non investment grade securities. The global credit and capital markets have recently experienced further significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system and the current uncertainty related to global economic conditions. As a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that we may incur additional other than temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments such as asset backed securities should the credit markets experience further deterioration. See Note 4. Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for additional information about our investments. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained and the hedged relationship has been effective, are deferred and included in income or expenses in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. Gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the consolidated statements of income as they are incurred. 37 We enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our overseas operating expenses and other liabilities when deemed appropriate. As of March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008, we had the following outstanding forward currency exchange contracts: (In thousands and U.S. dollars) March 28, March 29, 2009 2008 Euro $ 51,072 $ 18,616 Singapore dollar 30,123 11,938 Japanese Yen 12,563 5,364 British Pound 6,408 3,022 $ 100,166 $ 38,940 Effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, as part of our strategy to reduce volatility of operating expenses due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, we expanded our hedging program from a one quarter forward outlook to a five quarter forward outlook for major foreign currency denominated operating expenses. The contracts expire at various dates between April 2009 and April 2010. The net unrealized gain or loss, which approximates the fair market value of the above contracts, was immaterial as of March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008. Our investments in several of our wholly owned subsidiaries are recorded in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As the financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated at each quarter end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the foreign currency and the U.S. dollar increase or decrease the value of those investments. These fluctuations are recorded within stockholders equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Other foreign denominated assets and liabilities are revalued on a monthly basis with gains and losses on revaluation reflected in net income. A hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates at March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008 would have affected the annualized foreign currency denominated operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries by less than $8.0 million and $15.0 million, respectively. In addition, a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008 would have affected the value of foreign currency denominated cash and investments by less than $6.0 million as of each date. 38 
 
