FILE:XL/XL-8K-20060110165417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01.
 
Other Events.
On January 9, 2006, XL Capital Ltd issued the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)
 
Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed herewith:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:
 
January 10, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Press Release
Hamilton, Bermuda  January 9, 2006  XL Capital Ltd (NYSE: XL) ("XL" or the "Company") today announced changes within its insurance segment, known as XL Insurance.
Clive R. Tobin, Chief Executive of XLs Insurance Operations, stated that David B. Duclos, formerly Chief Underwriting Officer for Specialty Lines, would assume the position of Chief Operating Officer for XL Insurance, reporting to Mr. Tobin. In this capacity, Mr. Duclos will be responsible for the underwriting, sales and regional management of XLs worldwide insurance operations.
By positioning our insurance underwriting and regional management under Dave, we believe we will be able to deliver more robust and better integrated support to our customers across all of our platforms. I am confident that Daves background and management strength will enable him to lead this very critical part of our business, said Mr. Tobin. Daves oversight of our operations will enable me to focus more attention on strategic business and marketing opportunities, and I am confident that this realignment will enable us to continue the substantial progress we have made in our insurance segment over recent years, added Mr. Tobin.
Dermot ODonohoe will assume Mr. Duclos former role as Chief Underwriting Officer for Specialty Lines. He will remain head of XLs UK and Ireland region until a successor is named. Mr. ODonohoe will report to Mr. Duclos in his new role, as will the current heads of business lines and regions within XLs insurance segment.
These changes are the next step in a process we started two years ago to more fully integrate operations in XL Insurance. We have made great progress towards the goals we set then and it is now time to move on to the next stage. I am confident that we have assembled the right team to lead this effort, said Mr. Tobin.
XL Capital Ltd, through its operating subsidiaries, is a leading provider of insurance and reinsurance coverages and financial products and services to industrial, commercial and professional service firms, insurance companies and other enterprises on a worldwide basis. As of September 30, 2005, XL Capital Ltd had consolidated assets of approximately $54.9 billion and consolidated shareholders' equity of approximately $7.0 billion. More information about XL Capital Ltd is available at
www.xlcapital.com
.
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about XL's beliefs, plans or expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current plans and expectations. Actual results may differ materially from those included in such forward-looking statements and, therefore, you should not place undue reliance on them. A non-exclusive list of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements includes the following: (a) the timely realization of the expected benefits associated with recent changes in management and (b) the other factors set forth in XL's most recent reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other documents on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as management's response to any of the aforementioned factors. XL undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
 


