FILE:XL/XL-8K-20060901170927.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Explanatory Note:
This Amendment No. 1 to Current Report on Form 8-K is being filed to amend Item 5.02 to include a description of the employment agreement between the Company and Michael C. Lobdell.
On July 12, 2006,  XL Capital Ltd (the "Company") announced the appointment of Michael C. Lobdell to join the Company in September as Chief Executive - Global Business Services.
Mr. Lobdell, age 48, is currently a Director of the New York City Investment Fund and Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Westminster School in Simsbury, Connecticut. During a 28-year career with JPMorganChase (originally J.P. Morgan), Mr. Lobdell held numerous leadership positions, including Senior Partner of the global financial services firm's Mergers & Acquisitions Group, Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer of Global Investment Banking, Chairman of JPMorgan North American Investment Banking Management Committee, Head of Risk Technology Operations for Europe, and, most recently, Managing Director and Head of Chase Middle Market Treasury Service Integration Project.
On September 1, 2006, the Company entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Lobdell (the Executive). The Executive will serve as the Companys Chief Executive-Global Business Services.
The employment agreement provides for (i) a base salary of no less than US$600,000 and is subject to annual review and may be increased by the Compensation Committee, (ii) an annual bonus (with a bonus target of at least 125% of base salary) pursuant to the Companys incentive compensation plan, the actual amount earned to be determined by the Compensation Committee, (iii) reimbursement for or payment of certain travel and other expenses, and (iv) the right to participate in such other employee benefit programs as are in effect for senior executives from time to time. Employment is for an original term of one year and will continue to be automatically extended for successive one year periods unless the Company or the Executive provides written notice that the term is not to be extended at least six months prior to the then scheduled expiration date. The Executive has agreed to certain confidentiality, non-competition and non-solicitation provisions. The Companys obligations under the employment agreement are guaranteed by XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd.
The employment agreement further provides that, in the event of the termination of the Executives employment prior to the expiration date of the employment agreement (after giving effect to any extensions thereof) by reason of death or disability, the Executive (or in the case of death, the Executives spouse or estate) shall be entitled to receive the Executives then current base salary through the end of the six month period after the month in which the Executives employment is terminated, and the Executive (or the Executives estate) shall be entitled to any annual bonus awarded but not yet paid and a pro rata bonus for the year of termination in an amount determined by the Compensation Committee (but not less than a pro rata portion of the Executives average annual bonus for the immediately preceding three years, or the period of the Executives employment, if less). The Executive (or the Executives estate) shall also be entitled to the Executives vested accrued benefits under any employee benefit programs, continued rights with regard to any stock options or other rights with respect to equity securities of the Company held by the Executive in accordance with the terms of the plans under which such options or other rights were issued, and continued medical benefit plan coverage for the Executive and the Executives dependents for a period of six months.
In the event of termination of the Executives employment by the Company without Cause (as defined in the employment agreement), including termination of employment following the Companys issuance of a notice of nonrenewal of the employment agreement, or by the Executive if the Executive is assigned duties inconsistent with his position (but such assignment does not constitute Good Reason as defined in the employment agreement), the Executive shall be entitled to (i) the Executives then current base salary through the date on which termination occurs, (ii) provided the Executive executes a general release of claims, a cash lump sum payment equal to the sum of (x) two times the Executives then current base salary and (y) one times the higher of the targeted annual bonus for the year of such termination or the average of the executives annual bonus for the three years (or shorter period
of employment) immediately preceding the year of termination, and (iii) any annual bonus awarded but not yet paid. The Executive shall also be entitled to the Executives vested accrued benefits under any employee benefit programs, continued rights with regard to any stock options or other rights with respect to equity securities of the Company held by the Executive in accordance with the terms of the plans under which such options or other rights were issued and continued medical benefit plan coverage for the Executive and the Executives dependents for a period of 24 months.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of termination of the Executives employment (x) by the Company without Cause within the 24-month period following a Change in Control (as defined in the employment agreement) (the Post-Change Period), (y) by the Executive for Good Reason during the Post-Change Period or (z) by the Company within one year prior to a Change in Control and it is reasonably demonstrated that such termination arose in connection with or anticipation of the Change in Control, then the Executive shall be entitled to (i) the
executives then current base salary through the date on which termination occurs; (ii) a cash lump sum payment equal to the sum of (x) two times the Executives base salary and (y) two times the average of the Executives annual bonus for the three years (or shorter period of employment) immediately preceding the year in which the Change in Control occurs, provided such bonus shall be at least equal to the targeted annual bonus for the year of such termination; and (iii) an amount equal to the higher of (x) the Executives annual bonus actually awarded in the year immediately preceding the year in which the Change in Control occurs or (y) the targeted annual bonus that would have been awarded to the Executive for the year of such termination, pro rated by a fraction based on the number of months or fraction thereof in which the Executive was employed by the Company in the year of termination. The Executive shall also be entitled to continued medical benefit plan coverage for the Executive and the Executives dependents for a period of 24 months and to accelerated vesting of the executives rights (i) under any retirement plans and (ii) with regard to any stock options or other rights with respect to equity securities of the Company held by the Executive, which options or other rights shall be exercisable for the shorter of three years or the original term of the security. In addition, the Executive shall be entitled to gross-up payments in the event excise taxes on the Executives payments or benefits are imposed under Section 280G of the United States Internal Revenue Code.
In the event of termination of the Executives employment by the Company with Cause or other voluntary termination by the Executive, the Executive shall be entitled to the Executives then current base salary through the date on which termination occurs and continued rights with regard to any stock options or other rights with respect to equity securities of the Company held by the Executive in accordance with the terms of the plans under which such options or equity securities were issued. The Executive shall also be entitled to the Executives vested accrued benefits under any employee benefit programs in the case of voluntary termination and, if such programs expressly provide for such benefits, in the case of termination by the Company with Cause.
The employment agreement also provides for indemnification of the Executive by the Company to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law and the Registrants charter documents and requires the Registrant to maintain directors and officers liability coverage in an amount equal to at least $75,000,000.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On July 12, 2006, XL Capital Ltd issued a press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed herewith:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:
 
September 1, 2006


