FILE:XL/XL-8K-20060425200919.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Item 2.02.
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The following information is being furnished under Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, or incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On
April 25, 2006
, XL Capital Ltd issued the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein announcing the results for the first quarter of 2006.
 
Item 9.01.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
 
Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
XL Capital Ltd
XL House
One Bermudiana Road
P. O. Box HM 2245
Hamilton HM JX
Bermuda
Phone: (441) 292-8515
Fax: (441) 292-5280
 
 
 
 
 
 
HAMILTON, BERMUDA, April 25, 2006 -- XL Capital Ltd (XL or the Company) (NYSE: XL) today reported net income available to ordinary shareholders for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 of $458.5 million, or $2.56 per ordinary share, compared with net income of $442.9 million, or $3.18 per ordinary share, for the quarter ended March 31, 2005.  Net income excluding net realized gains and losses
1
 
for the first quarter of 2006 was $405.5 million, or $2.26 per ordinary share, compared with $346.5 million, or $2.49 per ordinary share, for the prior year period.
______________________
1 
Defined as net income excluding net realized gains and losses on investments and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit, structured financial and investment derivatives, net of tax herein referred to as net income excluding net realized gains and losses. Net income excluding net realized gains and losses is a non-GAAP measure. See the schedule entitled Reconciliation at the end of this release for a reconciliation of net income/loss excluding net realized gains and losses to net income available to ordinary shareholders.
 
Commenting on these results, President and Chief Executive Officer Brian M. OHara said: As we enter our twentieth year, I am pleased to report record earnings for the quarter with solid results in each of our business segments, as well as very strong investment returns. Our lower P&C net premiums written is principally reflective of our previously announced corporate-wide risk management initiatives to maximize risk-adjusted returns and the concentration in the first quarter of European renewals that were impacted by lower property rates and foreign exchange movements. I believe we will see continuing robust P&C market conditions and returns as renewals proceed through the remainder of the year.
 
FIRST QUARTER 2006 SEGMENT HIGHLIGHTS (comparisons are to the prior year quarter, unless otherwise noted):
 
Insurance General Operations
 
Underwriting profit for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 was $64.7 million compared with $82.0 million in the prior year period.
 
 
Reinsurance General Operations
 
Underwriting profit for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 was $84.9 million compared with $93.4 million for the prior year period.
 
 
Reinsurance Life and Annuity Operations
 
Gross premiums written were $99.6 million, up 9.5%. Net income was $14.1 million, an increase from $5.0 million in the prior year period in part due to higher net investment income from an increase in the asset base.
 
-2-
 
Financial Products and Services Operations
 
Total contribution for the segment was $64.5 million, a decrease of $13.2 million from the prior year period. Strong performances in net premiums earned, net spread income on structured products, and a net gain on derivatives were offset by a loss reserve on a structured finance transaction and a decrease in fee and other income. The $18.9 million net gain on derivatives was largely the result of realized gains in the weather and energy portfolio.
 
Investment Operations
 
Net investment income from general operations increased 52.6% from the prior year period to $262.4 million due to a higher investment asset base and a rise in average yields. Net income from investment affiliates was $106.4 million in the first quarter of 2006 compared with $70.5 million in the first quarter of 2005 due to strong performance on the alternative and private equity portfolios.
 
Net realized gains on investments were $22.8 million in the quarter, compared with $60.7 million in the prior year period. Net unrealized gains on investments, net of tax, were $103.7 million at March 31, 2006 compared with $555.0 million at December 31, 2005. This reduction of $399.2 million primarily reflected a rise in U.S., United Kingdom and Euro-Zone interest rates during the quarter.
 
Corporate Items
 
Total operating expenses were $261.6 million in the quarter, up from $247.2 million in the prior year period. Cash flow from operations was $539.2 million, up from $270.6 million in the prior year period.
 
 
 
The Company will host a conference call to discuss its first quarter 2006 results on Wednesday, April 26, 2006 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time. The conference call can be accessed through a listen-only dial-in number or through a live webcast. To listen to the conference call, please dial (706) 679-0474, password 042606. The webcast will be available on XLs website located at www.xlcapital.com and will be archived on this site from approximately 1:00 p.m. Eastern time on April 26, 2006 through midnight Eastern time on May 26, 2006. A slide presentation accompanying the Companys discussion of its first quarter results will also be available on the Companys website located at www.xlcapital.com beginning approximately 15 minutes before the commencement of the conference call.
 
A telephone replay of the conference call will be available beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m. Eastern time on April 26, 2006 until 11:00 p.m. Eastern time on May 26, 2006 by dialing (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291, Conference ID #7311747. An unaudited financial supplement relating to the Companys first quarter 2006 results is available on its website located at
www.xlcapital.com
.
 
XL Capital Ltd, through its operating subsidiaries, is a leading provider of insurance and reinsurance coverages and financial products and services to industrial, commercial and professional service firms, insurance companies and other enterprises on a worldwide basis. As of March 31, 2006, XL Capital Ltd had consolidated assets of approximately $58.8 billion and consolidated shareholders equity of approximately $8.5 billion. More information about XL Capital Ltd is available at
www.xlcapital.com
.
 
 
-3-
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about XLs beliefs, plans or expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current plans, estimates, and expectations. Actual results may differ materially from those included in such forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them. A non-exclusive list of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements includes the following: (a) changes in the size of XLs claims relating to hurricane and other catastrophe losses in 2005; (b) greater frequency or severity of claims and loss activity than XLs underwriting, reserving or investment practices anticipate based on historical experience or industry data; (c) trends in rates for property and casualty insurance and reinsurance; (d) developments in the worlds financial and capital markets that adversely affect the performance of XLs investments or access to such markets; (e) changes in general economic conditions, including foreign currency exchange rates, inflation and other factors; and (f) the other factors set forth in XLs most recent reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other documents on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as managements response to any of the aforementioned factors. XL undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
-4-
-5-
-6-
-7-
The following is a reconciliation of the Companys (i) net income (loss) available to ordinary shareholders to net income (loss) excluding net realized gains and losses on investments and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit, structured financial and investment derivatives, net of tax (which is a non-GAAP measure, the Exclusions) and (ii) annualized return on ordinary shareholders equity (based on net income (loss) minus the Exclusions) to average ordinary shareholders equity for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 (U.S. dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
 
-8-
Note 1: Defined as net income excluding net realized gains and losses on investments and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit, structured financial and investment derivatives, net of tax.
 
-9-
Comment on Regulation G
 
This press release contains the presentation of (i) net (loss) income excluding net realized gains and losses on investments and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit, structured financial and investment derivatives, net of tax and (ii) annualized return on ordinary shareholders equity (based on net income minus the Exclusions) to average ordinary shareholders equity. These items are non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G. The reconciliation of such measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in accordance with Regulation G is included above.
 
XL presents its operations in the way it believes will be most meaningful and useful to investors, analysts, rating agencies and others who use XLs financial information in evaluating XLs performance. This presentation includes the use of net income excluding net realized gains and losses on investments and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit and investment derivatives, net of tax. Investment derivatives include all derivatives entered into by XL other than weather and energy and credit derivatives (discussed further below).
 
Although the investment of premiums to generate income (or loss) and realized capital gains (or losses) is an integral part of XLs operations, the determination to realize capital gains (or losses) is independent of the underwriting process. In addition, under applicable GAAP accounting requirements, losses can be created as the result of other than temporary declines in value without actual realization. In this regard, certain users of XLs financial information, including certain rating agencies, evaluate earnings before tax and capital gains to understand the profitability of the recurring sources of income without the effects of these two variables. Furthermore, these users believe that, for many companies, the timing of the realization of capital gains is largely opportunistic and are a function of economic and interest rate conditions. In addition, with respect to credit derivatives, because XL generally holds its financial guarantee contracts written in credit default derivative form to maturity, the net effects of the changes in fair value of these credit derivatives are excluded (similar with other companies in the financial guarantee business) as the changes in fair value each quarter are not indicative of underlying business performance of XLs financial guarantee operations. Unlike these credit derivatives, XLs weather and energy derivatives are actively traded (i.e., they are not held to maturity) and are, therefore, not excluded from net income as any gains or losses from this business are considered by management when evaluating and managing the underlying business.
 
In summary, XL evaluates the performance of and manages its business to produce an underwriting profit. In addition to presenting net income (loss), XL believes that showing net income (loss) exclusive of the items mentioned above enables investors and other users of XLs financial information to analyze XLs performance in a manner similar to how management of XL analyzes performance. In this regard, XL believes that providing only a GAAP presentation of net income (loss) makes it much more difficult for users of XLs financial information to evaluate XLs underlying business. Also, as stated above, XL believes that the equity analysts and certain rating agencies who follow XL (and the insurance industry as a whole) exclude these items from their analyses for the same reasons and they request that XL provide this non-GAAP financial information on a regular basis.
 
 
-10-
Return on average ordinary shareholders equity (ROE), excluding net realized gains and losses on investments and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit and investment derivative instruments, net of tax (the Exclusions), is a widely used measure of any companys profitability. Annualized return on average ordinary shareholders equity (minus the Exclusions) is calculated by dividing annualized net income minus the Exclusions for any period by the average of the opening and closing ordinary shareholders equity. The Company establishes target ROEs for its total operations, segments and lines of business. If the Companys ROE return targets are not met with respect to any line of business over time, the Company seeks to re-evaluate these lines. In addition, the Companys compensation of its senior officers is significantly dependant on the achievement of the Companys performance goals to enhance shareholder value which include ROE.
 
-11-
 


