FILE:XL/XL-8K-20071024124251.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On October 23, 2007, XL Capital Ltd ("XL") issued a press release, attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto, announcing that Brian M. O'Hara, President and Chief Executive Officer of XL, has informed the XL Board of Directors (the "Board") of his decision to retire as President and CEO in mid-2008 and that Michael P. Esposito, Jr., Chairman, has advised the Board that he will retire from the Board upon the appointment of Mr. O'Hara's successor.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed herewith: 99.1 Press Release ("XL CAPITAL ANNOUNCES 2008 PLANNED RETIREMENT OF BRIAN M. O'HARA, PRESIDENT AND CEO, AND MICHAEL P. ESPOSITO JR., CHAIRMAN") dated October 23, 2007.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

XL House One Bermudiana Road P.O. Box HM 2245 Hamilton HM JX Bermuda
XL Capital Ltd
Phone: (441) 292-8515 Fax: (441) 292-5280
HAMILTON, BERMUDA, October 23, 2007  XL Capital Ltd ("XL" or the "Company") (NYSE: XL) today announced that Brian M. O'Hara, President and CEO of XL, has informed the XL Board of Directors of his decision to retire as President and CEO in mid-2008. Accordingly, the Board of Directors has implemented its CEO succession plan including the authorization of a Succession Committee to lead the new CEO selection process. In addition, Michael P. Esposito Jr., Chairman, has advised the Board of Directors that he will retire from the Board upon the appointment of Brian O'Hara's successor.
On behalf of the Board, Mike Esposito said, "Over the last two decades, including the last 13 years as CEO, Brian has developed a formidable global business franchise, with a values-based culture built on integrity, which has established a record of strong performance. The Board is both very proud and most grateful for all he has done. Brian will leave big shoes to fill and we are determined to select the right person to fill them. XL is most fortunate to have outstanding internal candidates to succeed Brian and they will be carefully considered together with other highly qualified outside candidates."
Commenting on his decision, Brian OHara said, "I have been privileged to spend the last twenty years of my career working with extraordinary talent to build a unique and highly successful global enterprise. Given our current position of strength and our positive momentum, I believe it is the right time to begin to hand over leadership to the next generation. Mike and I are committed to a smooth and successful transition as we continue to deliver value to our shareholders."
Commenting further, Mike Esposito said, "Having served as Chairman during the entire period Brian has been CEO, I think it is appropriate I step down from the Board when we complete our search and the new CEO is appointed, and I intend to do so."
The Board anticipates that after his retirement as CEO, Brian O'Hara will serve as Chairman during the final year of his current board term which expires in 2009, to provide continuity during the transition.
XL Capital Ltd, through its operating subsidiaries, is a leading provider of global insurance and reinsurance coverages to industrial, commercial and professional service firms, insurance companies and other enterprises on a worldwide basis. As of September 30, 2007, XL Capital Ltd had consolidated assets of $60.9 billion and consolidated shareholders' equity of $11.4 billion. More information about XL Capital Ltd is available at .
www.xlcapital.com


