FILE:XL/XL-8K-20070425084604.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is being furnished under Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, or incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On April 24, 2007, XL Capital Ltd issued the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein announcing the results for the first quarter of 2007.
Item 9.01.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed herewith:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:
 
April 25, 2007
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
XL Capital Ltd
XL House
One Bermudiana Road
P.O. Box HM 2245
Hamilton HM JX
Bermuda
Phone: (441) 292-8515
Fax: (441) 292-5280
HAMILTON, BERMUDA, April 24, 2007 -- XL Capital Ltd (XL or the Company) (NYSE: XL) today reported net income available to ordinary shareholders for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 of $549.7 million, or $3.06 per ordinary share, compared with net income of $458.5 million, or $2.56 per ordinary share, for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. Net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 included pre-tax, net losses from Windstorm Kyrill (Kyrill) of $55.0 million, which is lower than the Companys previously announced estimated range of between $60 million and $75 million. After taking into account net reinstatement premiums and tax effects, the net income impact of this event was $42.0 million. Net income excluding net realized gains and losses
1
for the first quarter of 2007 was $543.4 million, or $3.03 per ordinary share, compared with net income excluding net realized gains and losses of $405.5 million, or $2.26 per ordinary share, for the prior year period.
 
At March 31, 2007, net book value per ordinary share was $54.95 as compared with $53.12 at December 31, 2006.
 
 
 
1
 
Defined as net income/loss excluding net realized gains and losses on investments and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit, structured financial and investment derivatives, net of tax, herein referred to as net income/loss excluding net realized gains and losses. Net income/loss excluding net realized gains and losses is a non-GAAP measure. See the schedule entitled Reconciliation at the end of this release for a reconciliation of net income/loss excluding net realized gains and losses to net income available to ordinary shareholders.
 
 
 
Commenting on these results, President and Chief Executive Officer Brian M. OHara said: This quarters excellent results reflect our drive to deliver value for our shareholders. Underwriting results in Insurance were strong and Reinsurance results were solid despite losses from Windstorm Kyrill. Our other segments continued their positive contributions and our affiliates generated outstanding returns again.
 
 
SEGMENT HIGHLIGHTS - FIRST QUARTER 2007 VERSUS FIRST QUARTER 2006
Insurance
 
Underwriting profit for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 was $107.3 million compared with $64.7 million in the prior year period. The current quarter included a foreign exchange loss of $7.3 million as compared with a loss of $30.7 million in the prior year quarter. These results included pre-tax, net losses related to Kyrill of $10.0 million.
 
 
 
 
 
Reinsurance
 
Effective January 1, 2007, there was an internal change in executive responsibility for a block of European life, accident and health business (LAH), which moved from Reinsurance to Life operations. To assist comparability, prior period segment results have been re-presented to reflect this change.
 
Underwriting profit for the quarter ended March 31, 2007, was $19.9 million compared with $82.9 million for the prior year period. The current quarter included a foreign exchange loss of $16.6 million as opposed to a loss of $3.4 million in the prior year quarter. These results also included pre-tax, net losses related to Kyrill of $45.0 million. After taking into account reinstatement premiums for this event, the net impact on the underwriting profit of the Reinsurance segment was a loss of $39.0 million.
 
 
 
 
 
-2-
 
Life Operations
 
Prior period segment results have been re-presented to reflect the internal change in executive responsibility for the block of European LAH business noted above.
 
Gross premiums written were $213.3 million for the current quarter, an increase of 24.2% from the prior year quarter primarily due to new business, further growth on existing treaties and favorable foreign exchange movements. Net income from life operations was $23.1 million as compared with $18.2 million in the prior year quarter primarily reflecting growth in operations.
 
 
Financial Operations
 
  
Financial lines
 
Total contribution from the segment was $56.8 million for the current quarter as compared with $36.0 million in the prior year quarter. During the current quarter, the settlement of a contract arbitration resulted in gross and net premiums written and earned of $16.8 million and additional incurred losses of $9.1 million. Income from investment and financial affiliates increased to $16.6 million from $6.4 million. The prior year quarter included a loss reserve on a structured finance transaction.
 
  
SCA
 
Net income for the segment before equity minority interest was $37.3 million for the current quarter compared with $22.8 million in the prior year quarter. The current quarter included a 37% equity minority interest charge of $13.8 million. Higher gross premiums written versus the prior year quarter were due primarily to an increase in the power and utilities business and a mix of upfront business. Net premiums earned increased over the prior year quarter due to the growth of in-force policies. Net investment income increased primarily from a higher asset base following the initial public offering in August 2006, but this was partially offset by higher operating expenses reflecting the additional costs of being a public company.
 
Investment Operations
 
Net investment income from general operations was $313.4 million in the quarter, an increase of 20.4% from the prior year quarter. This increase was due primarily to a continued rise in average yields and a higher investment asset base.
 
Total net income from investment affiliates was $118.9 million in the quarter compared with $106.4 million in the prior year quarter, due to strong returns in the alternative portfolio and continued contribution from private investments. In addition, net income from investment manager affiliates was $37.4 million in the current quarter compared with a net loss of $9.4 million in the prior year quarter.
 
Net realized gains on investments were $9.3 million in the current quarter compared with $22.8 million in the prior year quarter. Net unrealized gains on investments, net of tax, were $305.6 million and $410.5 million, at March 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 respectively. This decline is primarily due to the effect of the rising UK interest rates on the long duration UK Sterling-denominated life portfolio.
 
Other Items
 
Total operating expenses were $280.5 million in the quarter, up from $261.6 million in the prior year quarter. The increase was due mainly to an increase in compensation costs related to business development and performance-based programs.
 
The Company received net proceeds of $983.8 million related to the issue of Series E Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Ordinary Shares in March 2007. In addition to the share repurchase program, the proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes, in particular, to refinance debt and other components of the Companys capital structure. During the quarter, the Company repurchased 3.17 million ordinary shares at an average price of $69.82 per share.
 
-3-
 
 
The Company will host a conference call to discuss its first quarter 2007 results on Wednesday, April 25, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time. The conference call can be accessed through a listen-only dial-in number or through a live webcast. To listen to the conference call, please dial (877) 422-4657 or (706) 679-0474, Conference ID# 2785039. The webcast will be available on XLs website located at
www.xlcapital.com
and will be archived on this site from approximately 1:00 p.m. Eastern time on April 25, 2007 through midnight Eastern time on May 25, 2007. A slide presentation accompanying the Companys discussion of its first quarter 2007 results will also be available on the Companys website located at
www.xlcapital.com
beginning approximately 15 minutes before the commencement of the conference call.
A telephone replay of the conference call will be available beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m. Eastern time on April 25, 2007 until midnight Eastern time on May 16, 2007 by dialing (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291, Conference ID # 2785039. An unaudited financial supplement relating to the Companys first quarter 2007 results is available on its website located at
www.xlcapital.com
.
XL Capital Ltd, through its operating subsidiaries, is a leading provider of insurance and reinsurance coverages and financial products and services to industrial, commercial and professional service firms, insurance companies and other enterprises on a worldwide basis. As of March 31, 2007, XL Capital Ltd had consolidated assets of approximately $62.1 billion and consolidated shareholders equity of $11.3 billion. More information about XL Capital Ltd is available at
www.xlcapital.com
.
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about XLs beliefs, plans or expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current plans, estimates, and expectations. Actual results may differ materially from those included in such forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them. A non-exclusive list of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements includes the following: (a) greater frequency or severity of claims and loss activity than XLs underwriting, reserving or investment practices anticipate based on historical experience or industry data; (b) trends in rates for property and casualty insurance and reinsurance; (c) developments in the worlds financial and capital markets that adversely affect the performance of XLs investments or access to such markets; (d) changes in general economic conditions, including foreign currency exchange rates, inflation and other factors; and (e) the other factors set forth in XLs most recent reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other documents on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as managements response to any of the aforementioned factors. XL undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
-4-
Note 1: Certain amounts in 2006 have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation
-5-
Note 1: Certain amounts in 2006 have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation
-6-
Note 1: Certain amounts in 2006 have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation
-7-
The following is a reconciliation of the Companys (i) net income (loss) available to ordinary shareholders to net income (loss) excluding net realized gains and losses on investments
and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit, structured financial and investment derivatives
, net of tax (which is a non-GAAP measure, the Exclusions) and (ii) annualized return on ordinary shareholders equity (based on net income (loss) minus the Exclusions) to average ordinary shareholders equity for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and 2006.
 
Note 1: Defined as net income/loss excluding net realized gains and losses on investments and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit, structured financial and investment derivatives, net of tax.
-8-
Comment on Regulation G
This press release contains the presentation of (i) net income (loss) excluding net realized gains and losses on investments and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit, structured financial and investment derivatives, net of tax and (ii) annualized return on ordinary shareholders equity (based on net income (loss) minus the Exclusions) to average ordinary shareholders equity. These items are non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G. The reconciliation of such measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in accordance with Regulation G is included above.
XL presents its operations in the way it believes will be most meaningful and useful to investors, analysts, rating agencies and others who use XLs financial information in evaluating XLs performance. This presentation includes the use of net income/loss excluding net realized gains and losses on investments and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit, structured financial and investment derivatives, net of tax. Investment derivatives include all derivatives entered into by XL other than weather and energy and credit derivatives (discussed further below).
Although the investment of premiums to generate income (or loss) and realized capital gains (or losses) is an integral part of XLs operations, the determination to realize capital gains (or losses) is independent of the underwriting process. In addition, under applicable GAAP accounting requirements, losses can be created as the result of other than temporary declines in value without actual realization. In this regard, certain users of XLs financial information, including certain rating agencies, evaluate earnings before tax and capital gains to understand the profitability of the recurring sources of income without the effects of these two variables. Furthermore, these users believe that, for many companies, the timing of the realization of capital gains is largely opportunistic and are a function of economic and interest rate conditions.
In addition, with respect to credit derivatives, because XL generally holds its financial guaranty contracts written in credit default derivative form to maturity, the net effects of the changes in fair value of these credit derivatives are excluded (similar with other companies in the financial guarantee business) as the changes in fair value each quarter are not indicative of underlying business performance of XLs financial guaranty operations. Unlike these credit derivatives, XLs weather and energy derivatives are actively traded (i.e., they are not held to maturity) and are, therefore, not excluded from net income as any gains or losses from this business are considered by management when evaluating and managing the underlying business.
In summary, XL evaluates the performance of and manages its business to produce an underwriting profit. In addition to presenting net income (loss), XL believes that showing net income (loss) exclusive of the items mentioned above enables investors and other users of XLs financial information to analyze XLs performance in a manner similar to how management of XL analyzes performance. In this regard, XL believes that providing only a GAAP presentation of net income (loss) makes it much more difficult for users of XLs financial information to evaluate XLs underlying business. Also, as stated above, XL believes that the equity analysts and certain rating agencies that follow XL (and the insurance industry as a whole) exclude these items from
 
 
-9-
 
their analyses for the same reasons and they request that XL provide this non-GAAP financial information on a regular basis.
Return on average ordinary shareholders equity (ROE) (minus the Exclusions) is a widely used measure of any companys profitability. Annualized return on average ordinary shareholders equity (minus the Exclusions) is calculated by dividing annualized net income minus the Exclusions for any period by the average of the opening and closing ordinary shareholders equity. XL establishes target ROEs for its total operations, segments and lines of business. If XLs ROE return targets are not met with respect to any line of business over time, XL seeks to re-evaluate these lines. In addition, XLs compensation of its senior officers is significantly dependant on the achievement of the Companys performance goals to enhance shareholder value which include ROE.
 
 
 
 
 


