FILE:XL/XL-8K-20070201172501.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On February 1, 2007, XL Capital Ltd issued the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed herewith: Exhibit 99.1 Press Release ("XL CAPITAL LTD ESTIMATES LOSSES RESULTING FROM EUROPEAN WINDSTORM KYRILL") dated February 1, 2007.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
XL House One Bermudiana Road Hamilton HM 11 Bermuda
XL Capital Ltd
HAMILTON, Bermuda, Feb 1 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/  XL Capital Ltd (NYSE: XL) ("XL" or the "Company") today announced that, based on current analysis, its pre-tax net loss relating to European Windstorm Kyrill ("Kyrill") is estimated to be in the range of $60 million to $75 million. The majority of XL's losses from Kyrill are expected to come from its reinsurance segment.
Kyrill's hurricane-strength winds caused widespread damage and loss of life across Northern and Western Europe on January 18 and 19, 2007. Damage was particularly severe in Ireland, the United Kingdom and Germany.
The Company's preliminary loss estimate range is based on its review of individual treaties and policies expected to be impacted and client data received to date and has taken into account current industry loss estimates. There is currently a wide range of industry loss estimates, and many clients are still in the early stages of their exposure evaluations, therefore the Company's preliminary loss estimate range is subject to revision.
XL Capital Ltd, through its operating subsidiaries, is a leading provider of insurance and reinsurance coverages and financial products and services to industrial, commercial and professional service firms, insurance companies and other enterprises on a worldwide basis. As of September 30, 2006, XL Capital Ltd had consolidated assets of approximately $59.8 billion and consolidated shareholders' equity of $9.5 billion. More information about XL Capital Ltd is available at www.xlcapital.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements about the estimated effects of European Windstorm Kyrill on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Such statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about XL's beliefs or expectations, are forward- looking statements. These statements are based on current plans, estimates and expectations. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them. A non-exclusive list of the important factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements include the preliminary nature of reports and estimates of loss to date, the limited ability of claims personnel to make inspections to date and the other important factors set forth in XL's most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly report on
Form 10-Q
and XL's other documents on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. XL undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
# # #


