FILE:XL/XL-8K-20071105160749.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 1, 2007, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of XL Capital Ltd (the "Company"), acting upon the recommendation of its Nominating & Governance Committee, elected Sir John Vereker to the Board. Sir John Vereker has been elected as a Class I Director and as such will be standing for re-election at the Company's 2008 annual general meeting of shareholders. Sir John Vereker has been named to the Finance Committee and the Public Affairs Committee of the Board. There are no arrangements or understandings between Sir John Vereker and any other person pursuant to which he was selected to serve as a director. No information called for by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K is required to be disclosed herein. In connection with the election of Sir John Vereker as a director of the Company, the Board authorized the grant to Sir John Vereker, pursuant to the terms of the Company's Amended and Restated Directors Stock & Option Plan, of an option to purchase up to 5,000 of the Company's ordinary shares at an exercise price of $67.84 per ordinary share, which was equal to the last reported sale price of the Company's ordinary shares on November 1, 2007. The options granted to Sir John Vereker have a term of ten years and are fully exercisable as of the date of the grant thereof. The Company has also agreed to pay to Sir John Vereker a retainer fee equal to the pro rata portion of the annual retainer payable to non-employee members of the Board, as set forth in the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, filed on March 16, 2007 (the "Proxy Statement"), until the Company's 2008 annual general meeting of shareholders. Sir John Vereker has also received 368.51 Retainer Share Units (as defined in the Proxy Statement). In addition, Sir John Vereker will be entitled to per meeting fees equal to the per meeting fees payable to non-employee members of the Board, as set forth in the Proxy Statement. The press release issued by the Company on November 2, 2007 announcing the election of Sir John Verek er to the Board is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed herewith: 99.1 Press Release ("SIR JOHN VEREKER APPOINTED TO XL CAPITAL LTD BOARD OF DIRECTORS") dated November 2, 2007.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

XL House One Bermudiana Road Hamilton HM 11 Bermuda
XL Capital Ltd
Hamilton, Bermuda  November 2, 2007  XL Capital Ltd (NYSE: XL) ("XL" or the "Company") today announced that Sir John Vereker has been elected to the Company's Board of Directors.
Sir John was the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of Bermuda from April 2002 to October 2007. Prior to that, he was the U.K.'s Permanent Secretary of the Department for International Development, and of its predecessor the Overseas Development Administration, from 1994 to 2002.
Over the years, Sir John's career has included working in the World Bank, serving as Private Secretary to three UK Ministers of Overseas Development, working on public sector issues in the Policy Unit of the British Prime Minister's Office and serving as Deputy Secretary for the Department of Education and Science. He has been a Board Member of the British Council, the Institute of Development Studies, the Institute of Manpower Studies and Voluntary Service Overseas. He has served on the Advisory Councils for the Centre for Global Ethics and for the British Consultancy and Construction Bureau. He has also been an adviser to the UN Secretary-General's Millenium Development Project. Earlier this year, Sir John served as a member of the Volcker panel which investigated the World Bank's institutional integrity.
XL Chairman Michael P. Esposito, Jr., said: "I am pleased to welcome Sir John to the XL Board of Directors. I believe that his experience will complement the Board's diversity in terms of skills and experience. I look forward to working with him and I am confident that his international expertise will be valuable in continuing to build XL's global leadership position in the years ahead."
XL Capital Ltd, through its operating subsidiaries, is a leading provider of global insurance and reinsurance coverages to industrial, commercial and professional service firms, insurance companies and other enterprises on a worldwide basis. As of September 30, 2007, XL Capital Ltd had consolidated assets of $60.9 billion and consolidated shareholders' equity of $11.4 billion. More information about XL Capital Ltd is available at .
www.xlcapital.com


