FILE:XL/XL-8K-20081014083424.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[   ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[   ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.
  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
   
The following information is being furnished under Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. This information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, or incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
On October 14, 2008, XL Capital Ltd issued the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein announcing the preliminary estimates of the results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2008.
 
Item 9.01.
  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
   
 
(d)
   
Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:
October 14, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
 
XL Capital Ltd
XL House
One Bermudiana Road
P.O. Box HM 2245
Hamilton HM JX
Bermuda
 
Phone: (441) 292-8515
Fax:     (441) 292-5280
 
Contact:                 David Radulski                                                     Carol A. Parker Trott
Investor Relations                                                Media Relations
(441) 294-7460                                                       (441) 294-7290
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HAMILTON, BERMUDA, October 14, 2008 -- XL Capital Ltd (XL or the Company) (NYSE: XL) today reported an estimated net loss to ordinary shareholders for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 of between $1.65 billion to $1.67 billion, or a loss of $6.08 to $6.17 per ordinary share, compared with net income of $328.0 million, or $1.82 per ordinary share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. The results for the quarter are currently being reviewed by the Companys independent auditors and the estimates are subject to change.  The estimated net loss for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 included the following pre-tax items in addition to the previously announced items noted above :
 
 
 
 Net income excluding net realized gains and lossesis estimated to be approximately $107.8 million or $0.40 per ordinary share as compared with $562.8 million or $3.13 in the prior year quarter.
1
 
 
Defined as net income excluding net realized gains and losses on investments, net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit, structured financial and investment derivatives, net of tax, for the Company and its share of these items for Syncora and the Companys other insurance company operating affiliates and charges in respect of guarantees issued to cedents of Syncora Guarantee Re Ltd (formerly XL Financial Assurance Ltd), herein referred to as net income excluding net realized gains and losses. Net income excluding net realized gains and losses is a non-GAAP measure.   See the schedule entitled Reconciliation at the end of this release for a reconciliation of net income/loss excluding net realized gains and losses to net income available to ordinary shareholders.
1
 
 
 
-2-
 
Commenting on the results for the quarter, Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael S. McGavick said The third quarter has seen real progress in relation to the strategic objectives set out earlier in the year.  We eliminated the vast majority of our exposures to Syncora. We have also made demonstrable progress in de-risking the firm, both in our investment portfolio and by and by demonstrating our attention to managing our traditional property and casualty exposures well, as we believe our third quarter hurricane losses show. And during all of this we also completed most of the actions necessary to reduce the expense base of the Company and achieved modest premium growth.  Additionally, we raised capital sufficient to pay for our Syncora solution, to withstand the historic economic turbulence and its effects on our investment portfolio in the quarter, and to cover the demands of our estimated third quarter hurricane losses.
 
P&C Operations gross premiums written for the current quarter included $1,214.0 million from the Insurance segment and $686.0 million from the Reinsurance segment compared with $1,169.4 million and $624.3 million, respectively, in the prior year quarter. The loss ratio for the quarter was 79.3% with a combined ratio of 107.1% as compared to 58.1% and 85.3%, respectively, in the prior year quarter.  The results for the current quarter were adversely affected by $209.5 million of natural catastrophe losses but benefited from favorable prior year development of $98.9 million (see table attached). In the prior year quarter there was $22.1 million of natural catastrophe losses offset by favorable prior year development of $144.0 million. Consistent with the first half of this year, this was a quarter where the insurance industry saw an above average level of large property losses.  Further details of the performance of the operating segments are set forth below.
 
The Life Operations segment contributed $37.6 million and there was a contribution of $3.7 million from the Other Financial Lines segment, compared with contributions of $27.0 million and $16.5 million, respectively, in the prior year quarter.
 
Mr. McGavick said During the quarter we have been conducting our strategic review of the Companys Life Operations.  We currently expect this review process to conclude during the fourth quarter.
 
Net investment income from P&C operations, excluding investment income from structured products, was $293.1 million as compared to $325.5 million in the prior year quarter.  Net investment income from P&C structured products was $27.4 million as compared to $35.1 million in the prior year quarter. Both reductions were caused principally by lower average yields for the periodThere was a net loss of $54.9 million from investment affiliates as compared to a profit of $69.4 million in the prior year quarter and net income from investment manager affiliates of $1.0 million compared to $23.2 million in the prior year quarter.  Both results reflected the extremely difficult capital market conditions during the period.
.
 
 
-3-
 
Mr. McGavick said These have been very difficult times in the capital markets.  However, I believe that the relatively limited level of realized investment losses that we have recorded this quarter arising from impacted financial institutions demonstrates the effectiveness of our risk management in avoiding outsize exposures to individual credits.
 
Net income from financial and operating affiliates, excluding the Syncora related charges noted above, was $12.2 million as compared to $18.8 million in the prior year quarter.
 
Operating expenses for the quarter were $319.4 million as compared with $270.5 million in the prior year quarter, the increase due primarily to the charge of $41.7 million noted above.
 
Mr. McGavick said We have taken decisive action to reduce the level of our operating expenses.  We remain on course to deliver the reduction of $70 million from our 2008 underlying expense base that we announced previously.
 
For the first nine months of 2008, net loss to ordinary shareholders is estimated to be between $1.20 billion and $1.22 billion as compared to net income of $1.42 billion in the prior year period.  Net income excluding net realized gains and losses for the same period is expected to be $650.8 million compared to $1,629.1 million in the prior year period.
 
The Companys ordinary shareholders equity at September 30, 2008 is estimated to be between $7.11 billion and $7.16 billion, as compared with $7.77 billion at June 30, 2008.  This reduction reflected (i) the net loss for the current quarter, (ii) an increase of between $800 million and $875 million in net unrealized losses within the investment portfolio, caused principally by a continued widening of credit spreads on corporate investments, (iii) a reduction in the currency translation account of $457.4 million due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar in the quarter, partially offset by, (iv) proceeds of $2,341.4 million received from issue of 151.75 million new Class A Ordinary Shares.  Book value per ordinary share at September 30, 2008 is estimated to be between $21.50 and $21.65.
 
The annualized return on ordinary shareholders equity, based on net income excluding net realized gains and losses, is expected to be approximately 5.8% for the quarter as compared to 22.3% in the prior year quarter.
 
Mr. McGavick said While it was a tough quarter by any measure, we are very pleased with the resilience of the XL franchise. Especially noteworthy was the fact that our clients, brokers and people pulled with us through the uncertainty of the Syncora situation, enabling us to have positive sales momentum in the quarter, and positioning us well for the critical 1/1 renewal period.
 
 
-4-
 
Segment Highlights  Third quarter 2008 versus third quarter 2007
 
Insurance
 
Gross and net premiums written increased by 3.8% and 2.6%, respectively, during the three months ended September 30, 2008 compared with the three months ended September 30, 2007.  Gross premiums written increased primarily due to growth from targeted new business initiatives, higher insured values in the marine book and $23 million of favorable movements in foreign exchange rates. Partially offsetting this increase was a continued decline in premium rates across most lines of business as market conditions continued to soften together with selective non-renewals.  Net premiums written increased as a result of the factors noted above affecting gross premiums written.
 
Net premiums earned increased by 2.9% in the three months ended September 30, 2008 compared with the three months ended September 30, 2007. The increase resulted primarily from favorable movements in foreign exchange rates of $29 million, growth in the Excess and Surplus and marine lines of business, partially offset by lower premiums in property and other specialty lines.
 
The loss ratio was 79.8% and the combined ratio was 107.9% compared to 62.7% and 87.5%, respectively, in the prior year quarter.  The current quarter results included favorable prior year development of $11.5 million (or 1.1 loss ratio points) and $67.9 million from natural catastrophe loss activity in the quarter.  The prior year quarter included $60.7 million (or 6.0 loss ratio points) of favorable prior year development and $7.0 million from natural catastrophe loss activity. The quarter has again seen an above average level of large property losses for the insurance industry.  The expense and combined ratios for the segment were impacted by 1.4 points for the charges related to the actions taken to streamline corporate functions noted above.
 
Reinsurance
 
Gross and net premiums written during the three months ended September 30, 2008 increased by 9.9% and decreased by 4.5%, respectively, as compared to the third quarter in 2007. Gross premium written includes $16.5 million of reinstatement premium related to the catastrophe events in the current quarter. Excluding this, the increase in gross premium written is due mainly to certain agricultural contracts where the premium is tied to commodities prices and a timing difference on one proportional contract which renewed in the current quarter but earlier in the year in 2007.  Partially offsetting this increase were premium rate decreases that resulted from softening market conditions and the Company declining certain business where market rates were below the Companys acceptable underwriting return levels, together with increased retentions by clients.  The decrease in net premiums written is due mainly to higher ceded premiums related to the agricultural contracts noted above partially offset by a decrease in cessions to Cyrus Re II.
 
 
-5-
 
Net premiums earned in the third quarter of 2008 decreased by 15.4% as compared to the third quarter of 2007. This decrease was a reflection of the overall reduction of net premiums written over the last 24 months including the impact of the purchase of the additional catastrophe loss protection in the second quarter of 2008.
 
The loss ratio was 78.4% and the combined ratio was 105.4% in the three months ended September 30, 2008 compared to 50.0% and 81.3%, respectively, in the prior year quarter.  The current quarter results included favorable prior year development of $87.4 million (or 18.1 loss ratio points) and $155.2 million from natural catastrophe loss activity in the quarter.   The prior year quarter included $83.3 million (or 14.6 loss ratio points) of favorable prior year development and $15.1 million from natural catastrophe loss activity. The acquisition expense ratio decreased from 22.2% to 16.4% in the current quarter due mainly to a reduction in performance related commissions and the expense and combined ratio was impacted by 0.6 points for the charges related to the actions taken to streamline corporate functions.
 
Life Operations
 
Gross written premiums for the Life operations was $156.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2008 as compared to $140.7 million in the prior year quarter. The increase was due primarily to higher premiums on the core regular premium portfolio as well as growth in U.S. business.  The contribution for the quarter was $37.6 million as compared to $27.0 million in the prior year quarter, the increase arising principally from the increase in business written together with higher net investment income.
 
Other Financial Lines
 
The Other Financial Lines segment recorded a contribution of $3.7 million during the three months ended September 30, 2008 as compared to a contribution of $16.5 million in the prior year quarter.  The lower income in the quarter arose from lower underlying balances and was partially offset by reduced operating expenses.
 
 
 
-6-
 
The Company will host a conference call to discuss the preliminary estimates of its third quarter results on October 14, 2008 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.  The conference call can be accessed through a listen-only dial in number or though a live webcast. To listen to the conference call, please dial (877) 422-4657 or (706) 679-0474, Conference ID# 67852140. The webcast will be available at the Companys website located at and will be archived there from approximately 11.30 a.m Eastern time on October 14,2008, through midnight Eastern time on November 14, 2008. A telephone replay of the conference call will also be available beginning at 11.30 a.m. Eastern time on October 14, 2008, until midnight Eastern time on November 4, 2008 by dialing
www.xlcapital.com
(800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291, Conference ID# 67852140.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about XL's beliefs, plans or expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current plans, estimates, and expectations. Actual results may differ materially from those included in such forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them. A non-exclusive list of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements includes (a) the preliminary nature of the financial estimates contained herein; (b) greater risk of loss in connection with obligations guaranteed by certain of our insurance company operating affiliates due to recent deterioration in the credit markets stemming from the poor performance of sub-prime residential mortgage loans; (c) greater frequency or severity of claims and loss activity than XLs underwriting, reserving or investment practices anticipate based on historical experience or industry data; (d) trends in rates for property and casualty insurance and reinsurance; (e) developments in the worlds financial and capital markets that adversely affect the performance of XLs investments or access to such markets including, but not limited to, further market developments relating to sub-prime and residential mortgages; (f) changes in general economic conditions, including foreign currency exchange rates, inflation and other factors; (g) changes in the size of XLs claims relating to natural catastrophe losses due to the preliminary nature of some reports and estimates of loss and damage to date and (h) the other factors set forth in XLs most recent reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other documents on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as managements response to any of the aforementioned factors. XL undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
 
-7-
 
 
-8-
 
 
 
-9-
 
 
-10-
 
(1) Natural Catastrophes includes Hurricanes Ike, Gustav, Mid West Floods, Greece and China Earthquake and Hailstorm Detmold
 
-11-
 
 
The following is a reconciliation of the Companys (i) estimated net income (loss) available to ordinary shareholders to net income (loss) excluding net realized gains and losses on investments and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit, structured financial and investment derivatives, net of tax, for the Company and its share of these items for Syncora and the Companys other insurance company operating affiliates and charges in respect of guarantees issued to cedents of Syncora Guarantee Re Ltd (formerly XL Financial Assurance Ltd),  (which is a non-GAAP measure, the Exclusions) and (ii) annualized return on ordinary shareholders equity (based on net income (loss) minus the Exclusions) to estimated average ordinary shareholders equity for the three months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007 (U.S. dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
Note 1 : Defined as "net income excluding net realized gains and losses on investments and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit, structured financial and investment derivatives, net of tax".
 
-12-
 
XL CAPITAL LTD
RECONCILIATION
 
Comment on Regulation G
 
This press release contains the presentation of (i) net income (loss) excluding net realized gains and losses on investments, net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit, structured financial and investment derivatives, net of tax, for the Company and its share of these items for Syncora and the Companys other insurance company operating affiliates and charges in respect of guarantees issued to cedents of Syncora Guarantee Re Ltd (formerly XL Financial Assurance Ltd), and (ii) annualized return on ordinary shareholders equity (based on net income minus the Exclusions) to average ordinary shareholders equity.  These items are non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G.  The reconciliation of such measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in accordance with Regulation G is included above.
 
XL presents its operations in the way it believes will be most meaningful and useful to investors, analysts, rating agencies and others who use XLs financial information in evaluating XLs performance.  This presentation includes the use of net income excluding net realized gains and losses on investments, net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit, structured financial and investment derivatives, net of tax. Investment derivatives include all derivatives entered into by XL other than weather and energy and credit derivatives (discussed further below).
 
Although the investment of premiums to generate income (or loss) and realized capital gains (or losses) is an integral part of XLs operations and those of Syncora and the Companys other insurance company operating affiliates, the determination to realize capital gains (or losses) is independent of the underwriting process.  In addition, under applicable GAAP accounting requirements, losses can be created as the result of other than temporary declines in value without actual realization.  In this regard, certain users of XLs financial information, including certain rating agencies, evaluate earnings before tax and capital gains to understand the profitability of the recurring sources of income without the effects of these two variables. Furthermore, these users believe that, for many companies, the timing of the realization of capital gains is largely opportunistic and are a function of economic and interest rate conditions.
 
In addition, with respect to credit derivatives, because XL and its insurance company operating affiliates generally hold financial guaranty contracts written in credit default derivative form to maturity, the net effects of the changes in fair value of these credit derivatives are excluded (similar with other companies in the financial guarantee business) as the changes in fair value each quarter are not indicative of underlying business performance. Unlike these credit derivatives, XLs weather and energy derivatives are actively traded (i.e., they are not held to maturity) and are, therefore, not excluded from net income as any gains or losses from this business are considered by management when evaluating and managing the underlying business.
 
Charges in respect of guarantees issued by XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd to cedents of Syncora Guarantee Re Ltd, a subsidiary of Syncora, are excluded as these contracts were capital in nature and outside the scope of the Companys underlying business.
 
In summary, XL evaluates the performance of and manages its business to produce an underwriting profit. In addition to presenting net income (loss), XL believes that showing net income (loss) exclusive of the items mentioned above enables investors and other users of XLs financial information to analyze XLs performance in a manner similar to how management of XL analyzes performance. In this regard, XL believes that providing only a GAAP presentation of net income (loss) makes it much more difficult for users of XLs financial information to evaluate XLs underlying business. Also, as stated above, XL believes that the equity analysts and certain rating agencies that follow XL (and the insurance industry as a whole) exclude these items from their analyses for the same reasons and they request that XL provide this non-GAAP financial information on a regular basis.
 
Return on average ordinary shareholders equity (ROE) excluding net realized gains and losses on investments and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on credit and investment derivative instruments, net of tax, for the Company and its share of these items for Syncora and the Companys other insurance company operating affiliates (the Exclusions), is a widely used measure of any companys profitability. Annualized return on average ordinary shareholders equity (minus the Exclusions) is calculated by dividing annualized net income minus the Exclusions for any period by the average of the opening and closing ordinary shareholders equity. The Company establishes target ROEs (minus the Exclusions) for its total operations, segments and lines of business. If the Companys ROE (minus the Exclusions) return targets are not met with respect to any line of business over time, the Company seeks to re-evaluate these lines. In addition, the Companys compensation of its senior officers is dependant upon, among other things, the achievement of the Companys performance goals to enhance shareholder value which include ROE (minus the Exclusions).
 
 
-14-
 


