FILE:XL/XL-8K-20090305091404.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
 
(c)           On March 5, 2009, the Company announced that Chairman Brian M. OHara and Mr. John T. Thornton will retire from the Board of Directors (the Board) and not stand for reelection at the Annual General Meeting on April 24, 2009.  The Company further announced that Mr. Robert S. Parker and Mr. Alan Z. Senter have decided to retire from the Board at the end of 2009.  A press release announcing these changes in the Board is filed as exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
(e)           A three-year consulting arrangement with Mr. OHara has been approved by the Board to commence following his retirement from the Board. Mr. OHara will receive a fee of $800,000 per year for advisory services and will be subject to certain restrictive covenants including non-competition and non-solicitation covenants.
 
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed herewith:
   
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  
March 5, 2009
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Press Release
HAMILTON, BERMUDA  March 5, 2009  XL Capital Ltd (XL or the Company) (NYSE: XL) announced today that the Chairman of its Board of Directors and former President and CEO Brian M. OHara, along with John T. Thornton, a member of its Board since 1988, have decided not to stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on April 24, 2009.
XL also announced that Robert S. Parker and Alan Z. Senter, Board members since 1992 and 1986 respectively, have decided to retire from the Board at the end of 2009.
I have had the pleasure of serving with these three directors for many years, noted outgoing Chairman Mr. OHara. We have seen XL through good and difficult times. It is fitting that having guided the Company through this very challenging past year and installed a new CEO, that we step aside for a new generation of Board leadership.
Lead Director Robert R. Glauber said: First of all I would like to thank Brian. Obviously the events of the past year were hardly the way in which Brian had planned to retire, and it has been very public just how painfully and fully aligned Brians fortunes have always been with shareholders. At the same time we would all do well to remember that without Brian this franchise simply would not exist.
He added: John, Bob and Al have helped lead us through the on-boarding of a new CEO and dealing with the recent challenges. By deciding to leave the Board, they allow the passing of the baton of governance to a new generation of Board leadership. We are all grateful to them for their long service and for their wisdom and grace in stepping forward to allow the Board to be refreshed.
 
 
 
Following the retirement of Mr. OHara and Mr. Thornton immediately prior to the Annual General Meeting, the Board will be fixed at 11 directors.
XL Capital Ltd, through its operating subsidiaries, is a leading provider of global insurance and reinsurance coverages to industrial, commercial and professional service firms, insurance companies and other enterprises on a worldwide basis.  More information about XL Capital Ltd is available at www.xlcapital.com.
 
 
 


