FILE:XL/XL-8K-20100701090537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Changes in Control of Registrant	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Changes in Control of Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Background
At 1:01 a.m., Bermuda time, on July 1, 2010 (the "Effective Time"), XL Group plc, an Irish public limited company ("XL-Ireland"), and XL Group Ltd. (formerly known as XL Capital Ltd), a Cayman Islands exempted company ("XL-Cayman"), completed their previously disclosed scheme of arrangement under Cayman Islands law (the "Scheme of Arrangement") that effected a transaction (the "Redomestication") that resulted in the Class A ordinary shareholders of XL-Cayman becoming ordinary shareholders of XL-Ireland and XL-Cayman becoming a subsidiary of XL-Ireland, and in accordance with the Scheme of Arrangement, the following steps occurred effectively simultaneously at the Effective Time:
     
1. all XL-Cayman Class A ordinary shares outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time were transferred to XL-Ireland;
     
2. in consideration therefor, XL-Ireland (i) issued ordinary shares of XL-Ireland (on a one-for-one basis) to the holders of whole XL-Cayman Class A ordinary shares that were transferred to XL-Ireland and (ii) will pay to the holders of fractional Class A ordinary shares of XL-Cayman an amount in cash for their fractional ordinary shares based on the average of the high and low trading prices of the XL-Cayman Class A ordinary shares on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the "NYSE") on June 30, 2010; and
     
3. all XL-Ireland shares in issue prior to the Effective Time (which were held solely by XL-Cayman and certain of its subsidiaries) were redeemed by XL-Ireland at nominal value and cancelled.
Prior to the Redomestication, the XL-Cayman Class A ordinary shares were listed on the NYSE under the symbol "XL" and registered under Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). In connection with the Redomestication, XL-Cayman requested that the NYSE file with the SEC an application on Form 25 to strike the XL-Cayman Class A ordinary shares from listing on the NYSE and the XL-Cayman Class A ordinary shares from registration under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act. XL-Cayman expects to file a Form 15 with the SEC to terminate the registration of the XL-Cayman Class A ordinary shares under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and to suspend its duty under Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act to file reports required by Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act with respect to the XL-Cayman Class A ordinary shares.
The XL-Ireland ordinary shares are deemed registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act. The issuance of the ordinary shares by XL-Ireland in the Redomestication was exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), under Section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Act. The XL-Ireland ordinary shares will begin trading on the NYSE under the symbol "XL," the same symbol under which the XL-Cayman Class A ordinary shares previously traded, at the opening of the NYSE on July 1, 2010. The XL-Ireland ordinary shares also will begin trading on the Bermuda Stock Exchange in place of the XL-Cayman Class A ordinary shares at the opening of the Bermuda Stock Exchange on July 1, 2010.
In addition, on July 1, 2010, XL Capital Ltd changed its name to XL Group Ltd.
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
In connection with the Redomestication (as defined above), XL-Ireland and XL-Cayman, as the case may be, entered into the following agreements:
Supplemental ESU Agreements
As of June 30, 2010, XL-Ireland and XL-Cayman entered into the First Supplement (the "PCA Supplement") to the Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of August 5, 2008 (the "Purchase Contract Agreement"), between XL-Cayman and The Bank of New York Mellon, as purchase contract agent and attorney-in-fact for the holders of XL-Cayman's 10.75% Equity Security Units (the "ESUs"). The PCA Supplement provides for, among other things, (i) the assumption of XL-Cayman's obligations under the Purchase Contract Agreement and the forward purchase contracts underlying the ESUs (the "Contracts") by XL Company Switzerland GmbH, a Swiss limited liability company and a wholly owned direct subsidiary of XL-Cayman and, following completion of the Redomestication, a
wholly owned indirect subsidiary of XL-Ireland ("XL-Switzerland"), (ii) a guarantee of XL-Switzerland's obligations under the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Contracts by XL-Cayman, (iii) a guarantee by XL-Ireland of XL-Switzerland's obligations to make payments on the Contracts and deliver shares pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Contracts and of XL Cayman's obligations under the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Contracts and (iv) ordinary shares of XL-Ireland to be delivered in place of Class A ordinary shares of XL-Cayman upon settlement of the Contracts. A copy of the PCA Supplement is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01, and the foregoing information is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 4.1.
As of June 30, 2010, XL-Cayman entered into the First Amendment (the "Pledge Amendment") to the Pledge Agreement, dated as of August 5, 2008 (the "Pledge Agreement"), between XL-Cayman and The Bank of New York Mellon, as collateral agent, custodial agent, securities intermediary, purchase contract agent and attorney-in-fact for the holders of the ESUs from time to time. The Pledge Amendment provides for, among other things, (i) the assumption of XL-Cayman's obligations under the Pledge Agreement by XL-Switzerland and (ii) XL-Cayman to be held jointly and severally liable for any and all obligations of XL-Switzerland under the Pledge Agreement. A copy of the Pledge Amendment is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.2 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01, and the foregoing information is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 4.2.
As of June 30, 2010, XL-Ireland and XL-Cayman entered into the Sixth Supplemental Indenture (the "Sixth Supplemental Indenture") to the Indenture, dated as of June 2, 2004 (the "Base Indenture"), between XL-Cayman and The Bank of New York, as trustee, as supplemented by the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 5, 2008 (the "Fifth Supplemental Indenture"), between XL-Cayman and The Bank of New York Mellon (as successor to The Bank of New York), as trustee. The Sixth Supplemental Indenture provides for, among other things, a guarantee of XL-Cayman's obligations under the Indenture, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture and the 8.25% Senior Notes due 2021 issued pursuant thereto by XL-Ireland. A copy of the Sixth Supplemental Indenture is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.3 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01, and the foregoing information is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 4.3.
Supplemental XLCFE Notes Indenture
On June 30, 2010, XL-Cayman entered into the Supplemental Indenture (the "XLCFE Supplemental Indenture") to the Indenture (the "XLCFE Indenture"), dated as of January 10, 2002, by and among XL Capital Finance (Europe) plc ("XLCFE"), XL-Cayman and State Street Bank and Trust Company. The XLCFE Supplemental Indenture provides for, among other things, the assumption of XL-Cayman's obligations under the guarantee of XLCFE's obligations under the XLCFE Indenture and the securities issued pursuant thereto by XL-Switzerland. A copy of the XLCFE Supplemental Indenture is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.4 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01, and the foregoing information is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 4.4.
Employment Agreements
The information under the heading "Employment Agreements" in Item 5.02 of this Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
Indemnification Agreements and Deed Poll
Indemnity
The information under the heading "Indemnification Agreements and Deed Poll Indemnity" in Item 5.02 of this Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
ESUs
The information under the heading "Supplemental ESU Agreements" in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K with respect to XL-Ireland and XL-Cayman is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 3.02. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities.
As described above under the heading "Background," on July 1, 2010, pursuant to the Redomestication, XL-Ireland issued ordinary shares of XL-Ireland (on a one-for-one basis) to the holders of whole XL-Cayman Class A ordinary shares that were transferred to XL-Ireland, resulting in the issuance of approximately 342.0 million XL-Ireland ordinary shares. The terms and conditions of the issuance and exchange of the securities were sanctioned by the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands on May 20, 2010, after a hearing upon the fairness of such terms and conditions at which all XL-Cayman Class A ordinary shareholders had a right to appear and of which adequate notice had been given. The issuance was exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act by virtue of Section 3(a)(10) thereunder.
Item 3.03. Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
Ordinary Shares
The information above under the heading "Background" is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.03. In connection with the Redomestication, effective as of July 1, 2010, XL-Ireland adopted a new memorandum and articles of association, the form of which was included in XL-Cayman's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed with the SEC on March 10, 2010 and mailed to XL-Cayman Class A ordinary shareholders on or about March 11, 2010 (the "Redomestication Proxy Statement"). The description of the rights of holders of XL-Ireland ordinary shares and the comparison thereof to the rights of holders of XL-Cayman Class A ordinary shares included under the headings "Description of XL Group plc Shares" and "Comparison of Rights of Shareholders and Powers of the Board of Directors" in the Redomestication Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into this Item 3.03. A copy of XL-Ireland's memorandum and articles of association is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.03, and the foregoing information is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 3.1. A specimen of the share certificate evidencing ordinary shares of XL-Ireland is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.5.
ESUs
The information under the heading "Supplemental ESU Agreements" in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K with respect to XL-Ireland and XL-Cayman is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.03.
XLCFE Notes
The information under the heading "Supplemental XLCFE Notes Indenture" in Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K with respect to XL-Cayman is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.03.
Item 5.01. Changes in Control of Registrant.
The information above under the heading "Background" with respect to XL-Cayman is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.01.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Directors and Executives
As previously announced in XL-Cayman's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 30, 2010, as of July 1, 2010, following completion of the Redomestication, the directors and executive officers of XL-Cayman immediately prior to the completion of the Redomestication became the directors and executive officers of XL-Ireland. XL-Ireland's Class I directors (which will be subject to an election at the 2011 annual general meeting of XL-Ireland) are Herbert N. Haag, Michael S. McGavick, Ellen E. Thrower and John M. Vereker, XL-Ireland's Class II directors (which will be subject to an election at the 2012 annual general meeting of XL-Ireland) are Dale R. Comey, Robert R. Glauber and G. Thompson Hutton and XL-Ireland's Class III directors (which will be subject to an election at the 2013 annual general meeting of XL-Ireland) are Joseph Mauriello, Eugene M. McQuade and Clayton S. Rose. In addition, as of July 1, 2010, following completion of the Redomestication, XL-Ireland's Board of Directors
replicated the committees of the Board of Directors that previously were in place for XL-Cayman, which consist of an Audit Committee; a Management Development and Compensation Committee; a Finance Committee; a Nominating, Governance and External Affairs Committee; and a Special Committee on Enterprise Risk Management.
Indemnification Agreements and Deed Poll Indemnity
In connection with, and effective upon, the completion of the Redomestication, XL-Cayman entered into indemnification agreements substantially in the form filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 (each, an "Indemnification Agreement") with each of the directors and the corporate secretary of XL-Ireland and a deed poll indemnity filed herewith as Exhibit 10.2 (the "Deed Poll") as to other executives, directors and employees of XL-Ireland (and its subsidiaries) who have not entered into an Indemnification Agreement. The Indemnification Agreements and Deed Poll provide that XL-Cayman will indemnify the indemnitees to the fullest extent permitted by Cayman Islands law against claims related to each indemnitee's service to (or at the request of) XL-Ireland, except in certain circumstances, including (i) where payment is actually made or then due (A) by XL-Ireland in its discretion, (B) under an insurance policy, (C) pursuant to an agreement between indemnitee and XL-Ireland, XL-Cayman or other entity served by indemnitee at the request of XL-Ireland or (D) under the governing documents of XL-Ireland, XL-Cayman or other entity served by indemnitee at the request of XL-Ireland; or (ii) in connection with a proceeding initiated by indemnitee, unless such proceeding was authorized by the XL-Ireland Board of Directors or falls within certain limited exceptions specifically provided for in the Indemnification Agreements; or (iii) in connection with a proceeding brought by or in the name of XL-Ireland, where the indemnitee is found, in a final and non-appealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, to be liable for willful neglect or willful default in the performance of the indemnitee's duty, unless a court of competent jurisdiction determines that the indemnitee is fairly and reasonably entitled to such payment. The Indemnification Agreements and Deed Poll also provide that any and all indemnifiable expenses shall, if so requested by the indemnitee, be advanced promptly as they are incurred, provided that the indemnitee must repay any such expense advance if it is determined in a final and non-appealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction that the indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified against such expenses. Prior to seeking an indemnification payment or expense advance under the Indemnification Agreements, an indemnitee must request that XL-Ireland consider in its discretion whether to make such indemnification payment or expense advance. In the event an indemnification or expense advance (or an undertaking to provide such indemnification or advance) is not received from XL-Ireland within 5 business days of such request, the indemnitees will be eligible to receive such indemnification or expense advance from XL-Cayman pursuant to the terms of the Indemnification Agreement.
Copies of the form of Indemnification Agreement and the Deed Poll are filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2, respectively, and are incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference. The foregoing summary of the Indemnification Agreements and Deed Poll is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.1 and Exhibit 10.2.
Employee Stock Plans and Awards
In connection with, and effective upon, the completion of the Redomestication, XL-Ireland assumed the existing liabilities, obligations and duties of XL-Cayman under the NAC Re Corp. 1989 Stock Option Plan (the "1989 Plan"), the XL Capital Amended and Restated 1991 Performance Incentive Program (the "1991 Program"), the XL Capital 1999 Performance Incentive Program for Employees (the "1999 Program"), the XL Capital Ltd Directors Stock & Option Plan (the "Directors Plan"), the XL Capital Ltd 2009 Cash Long-term Program (the "2009 Program"), the XL Capital Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan (the "DC Plan," and together with the 1989 Plan, 1991 Program, the 1999 Program, the Directors Plan and the 2009 Program, the "Programs"). Furthermore, in connection with, and effective upon, the completion of the Redomestication, the Programs have been amended by XL-Cayman, among other things, (i) to provide that XL-Ireland and its Board of Directors will succeed to all powers, authorities and obligations of XL-Cayman and its Board of Directors under each Program, (ii) to provide that the securities to be issued pursuant to each Program will consist of ordinary shares of XL-Ireland and (iii) otherwise to reflect the completion of the Redomestication.
Employment Agreements
In connection with, and effective upon, the completion of the Redomestication, XL-Ireland assumed the existing liabilities, obligations and duties of XL-Cayman under the employment agreements by and between XL-Cayman and each of the following named executive officers: Michael S. McGavick, Irene M. Esteves, Sarah E. Street, David B. Duclos and James H. Vegthe.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Upon the effectiveness of the Redomestication, the CUSIP number for the ordinary shares of XL-Ireland issued in place of the Class A ordinary shares of XL-Cayman will be G98290 102, and the CUSIP number for the ESUs will be H9709Y 102.
On July 1, 2010, XL-Ireland issued a press release announcing the completion of the Redomestication. A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01.
The information under the heading "Background" in this Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed herewith:
3.1: Memorandum and Articles of Association of XL Group plc
3.2: Certificate of Incorporation of XL Group plc
4.1: First Supplement to the Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2010, by and among XL Group plc, XL Capital Ltd, XL Company Switzerland GmbH and The Bank of New York Mellon
4.2: First Amendment to the Pledge Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2010, by and among XL Capital Ltd, XL Company Switzerland GmbH and The Bank of New York Mellon
4.3: Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 30, 2010, by and among XL Group plc, XL Capital Ltd and The Bank of New York Mellon
4.4: Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 30, 2010, by and among XL Capital Ltd, XL Company Switzerland GmbH and U.S. Bank National Association (as successor to State Street Bank and Trust Company)
4.5: Specimen Share Certificate (evidencing the ordinary shares of XL Group plc)
10.1: Form of Indemnification Agreement between XL Capital Ltd and each of the directors of and the corporate secretary of XL Group plc
10.2: Deed Poll of XL Capital Ltd
99.1: Press Release ("XL Group plc Completes Redomestication to Ireland and Name Change") dated July 1, 2010
99.2 "Description of XL Group plc Shares" and "Comparison of Rights of Shareholders and Powers of the Board of Directors" (Incorporated by reference to the sections so entitled of XL Capital Ltd's Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on March 10, 2010)
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 3.1
          We, the several persons whose names, addresses and descriptions are subscribed, wish to be formed into a Company in pursuance of this memorandum of association, and we agree to take the number of shares in the capital of the Company set opposite our respective names.

Exhibit 3.2
I hereby certify that
XL GROUP PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
has this day been re-registered under the Companies Acts 1963 to 2009 and that the company is a public limited company.
Given under my hand at Dublin, this
Monday, the 17th day of May, 2010
 

Exhibit 4.1
          THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENT TO THE PURCHASE CONTRACT AGREEMENT, dated as of June 30, 2010 (this ""), among XL Company Switzerland GmbH, a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Switzerland and wholly owned by XL-Cayman (as defined below) (""), XL Group plc, a public limited company incorporated under the laws of Ireland (""), XL Capital Ltd, a Cayman Islands exempted limited company (""), the entire issued ordinary share capital of which is owned by Parent, and The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York banking corporation, acting as purchase contract agent and attorney-in-fact for the Holders of Units from time to time (the "") pursuant to the Purchase Contract Agreement (as defined below).
Supplemental Agreement
XL-Switzerland
Parent
XL-Cayman
Agent
          WHEREAS, XL-Cayman and the Agent executed and delivered a Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of August 5, 2008 (the ""), to provide for the execution and delivery of the Purchase Contracts and Certificates related to the Normal Units and the Stripped Units (collectively, the "");
Purchase Contract Agreement
Units
          WHEREAS, XL-Cayman will undertake a scheme of arrangement under Cayman Islands law (the ""), pursuant to which at the time the Scheme becomes effective (the ""), all previously outstanding Ordinary Shares (as defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement) of XL-Cayman (such Ordinary Shares, the "") will be transferred to Parent and Parent will issue its Ordinary Shares, nominal value $0.01 per share, (the "") on a one-for-one basis to the holders of whole Cayman Ordinary Shares and will pay cash to holders of fractional Cayman Ordinary Shares (such exchange, the "");
Scheme
Effective Time
Cayman Ordinary Shares
Parent Ordinary Shares
Parent Exchange Event
          WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Agreement and in connection with the Scheme, Parent is listing the Parent Ordinary Shares on the New York Stock Exchange;
          WHEREAS, the Parent Exchange Event results in the occurrence of a Reorganization Event;
          WHEREAS, Section 5.6(b)(i) of the Purchase Contract Agreement provides that in the event of a Reorganization Event, the Person formed thereby shall execute and deliver to the Agent an agreement supplemental to the Purchase Contract Agreement providing that the Holder of each Outstanding Unit shall have the rights provided by Section 5.6 of the Purchase Contract Agreement and for adjustments which, for events subsequent to the date hereof, are as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in Section 5.6 of the Purchase Contract Agreement;
          WHEREAS, Section 8.1(d) of the Purchase Contract Agreement authorizes XL-Cayman and the Agent to enter into a supplemental agreement without the consent of any Holders to make provision with respect to the rights of Holders pursuant to the requirements of Section 5.6(b) of the Purchase Contract Agreement;
          WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Agreement, XL-Cayman is transferring substantially all of its assets to XL-Switzerland (the "");
Succession Event
          WHEREAS, as a condition to the Succession Event, Section 9.1 of the Purchase Contract Agreement requires, among other things, that XL-Switzerland execute and deliver one or more supplemental agreements to expressly assume all the obligations of XL-Cayman under the Purchase Contracts, the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement;
          WHEREAS, XL-Switzerland shall have expressly assumed such obligations pursuant to (1) this Supplemental Agreement; and (2) the First Amendment to the Pledge Agreement, dated as of the date hereof among XL-Cayman, XL-Switzerland, the Agent and The Bank of New York Mellon, as collateral agent, custodial agent and securities intermediary;
          WHEREAS, Section 8.1(a) of the Purchase Contract Agreement authorizes XL-Cayman and the Agent to enter into a supplemental agreement without the consent of any Holders to evidence the succession of another Person to XL-Cayman, and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of XL-Cayman in the Purchase Contract Agreement and in the Certificates;
          WHEREAS, each of Parent and XL-Cayman (each, a "") desires to Guarantee the Obligations (each as defined below);
Guarantor
          WHEREAS, Section 8.1(b) of the Purchase Contract Agreement authorizes XL-Cayman (or its successor hereby thereto) and the Agent to enter into a supplemental agreement without the consent of any Holders to add to the covenants of XL-Cayman for the benefit of the Holders, or to surrender any right or power conferred upon XL-Cayman in the Purchase Contract Agreement; such covenants or such surrender shall not adversely affect the validity, perfection or priority of the security interests granted or created under the Pledge Agreement;
provided
          WHEREAS, Section 8.1(e) of the Purchase Contract Agreement authorizes XL-Cayman (or its successor hereby with respect thereto) to enter into a supplemental agreement without the consent of any Holders to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provisions under the Purchase Contract Agreement, or to make any other provisions with respect to such matters or questions arising under the Purchase Contract Agreement; such action shall not shall not adversely affect the interest of the Holders;
provided
          WHEREAS, the changes to the Purchase Contract Agreement set forth in this Supplemental Agreement do not adversely affect (i) the interest of the Holders or (ii) the validity, perfection or priority of the security interests granted or created under the Pledge Agreement; and
          WHEREAS, XL-Cayman, XL-Switzerland and Parent have requested that the Agent execute and deliver this Supplemental Agreement;
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of their mutual promises, XL-Switzerland, Parent and XL-Cayman covenant and agree with the Agent as follows:
          Section 1.1. . Unless the context otherwise requires:
Definition of Terms
          (a) a term defined in the Purchase Contract Agreement has the same meaning when used in this Supplemental Agreement;
          (b) a term defined anywhere in this Supplemental Agreement has the same meaning throughout;
          (c) the terms defined in this Supplemental Agreement include the plural as well as the singular, and nouns and pronouns of the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter genders;
          (d) all accounting terms not otherwise defined in this Supplement Agreement have the meaning assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States;
          (e) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Supplemental Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision; and
          (f) the Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
          Section 2.1. .
Parent as Issuer of Common Stock upon Settlement
          (a) The Parent hereby agrees with XL-Cayman (and XL-Switzerland as its successor hereby with respect to the Purchase Contract Agreement) that, from and after the Effective Time of the Parent Exchange Event, upon payment in full of the Purchase Price for such Parent Ordinary Shares (subject to Sections 5.6(c) and 5.4(b)(iii) of the Purchase Contract Agreement), the Parent shall issue and deliver the number of Parent Ordinary Shares which is sufficient to settle the Purchase Contracts, as provided in the Purchase Contracts and Purchase Contract Agreement as amended and supplemented hereby.
          (b) XL-Cayman (and XL-Switzerland as its successor hereby with respect to the Purchase Contract Agreement) hereby agrees that from and after the Effective Time of the Parent Exchange Event, upon payment in full of the Purchase Price for such Parent Ordinary Shares (subject to Sections 5.6(c) and 5.4(b)(iii) of the Purchase Contract Agreement), it shall cause Parent to issue and deliver the number of Parent Ordinary
Shares which is sufficient to settle the Purchase Contracts, as provided in the Purchase Contracts and Purchase Contract Agreement as amended and supplemented hereby.
          (c) XL-Switzerland (as successor hereby with respect to the Purchase Contract Agreement) hereby agrees that, from and after the Effective Time of the Parent Exchange Event, it will immediately forward to XL-Cayman all funds or other consideration received by it under the Purchase Contract Agreement for payment of the Purchase Price upon settlement of each Purchase Contract for the Parent Ordinary Shares so issued.
          (d) The Parent hereby agrees that it shall continue to own the entire issued ordinary share capital of XL-Cayman, and shall cause XL-Cayman to continue to own the entire issued ordinary share capital of XL-Switzerland, at least until such time as Parent issues and delivers the number of Parent Ordinary Shares which is sufficient to settle the Purchase Contracts, as provided in the Purchase Contracts and Purchase Contract Agreement as amended and supplemented hereby.
          (e) Subject to the other provisions of this Supplemental Agreement, from and after the Effective Time of the Parent Exchange Event, references to the "Ordinary Shares" shall relate to Parent Ordinary Shares by operation of Section 5.6(b)(i) of the Purchase Contract Agreement, except to the extent that such reference is a reference to the Cayman Ordinary Shares as of a time preceding the Parent Exchange Event.
          (f) Subject to the other provisions of this Supplemental Agreement, from and after the Effective Time of the Parent Exchange Event:
                    Section 3.1. . The parties hereby understand and agree that, pursuant to Section 5.6(b)(i) of the Purchase Contract Agreement, the Parent Exchange Event constitutes a Reorganization Event, as a result of which each Cayman Ordinary Share covered by each Purchase Contract forming part of a Unit prior to such Parent Exchange Event shall, after such Parent Exchange Event, be a Parent Ordinary Share for purposes of the Purchase Contract.
Purchase Contract Settlement
                    Section 3.2. . Each Holder of an Outstanding Unit shall have the rights provided by Section 5.6(b)(i) of the Purchase Contract Agreement.
Rights of Holders
                    Section 3.3. . In accordance with the last paragraph of Section 5.6(b)(i) of the Purchase Contract Agreement, the Settlement Rate shall be adjusted for events subsequent to the Parent Exchange Event, in a manner that is as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in Section 5.6 of the Purchase Contract Agreement, as if Parent were the original "Company" (to the extent provided in Section 2.1(f) herein) and the Parent Ordinary Shares were the original "Ordinary Shares" under the provisions of Section 5.6 of the Purchase Contract Agreement.
Further Adjustments
                    Section 4.1. Each of XL-Cayman, XL-Switzerland and Parent represents and warrants that it has all requisite power and authority to execute and deliver the Supplemental Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder, and under the Purchase Contract Agreement, the Purchase Contracts and the Pledge Agreement to which it is a party, in each case as amended and supplemented, and that the execution, delivery and performance by XL-Cayman, XL-Switzerland and Parent of this Supplemental Agreement and the Purchase Contract Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action.
                    Section 4.2. Each of XL-Switzerland and XL-Cayman represents and warrants that the Succession Event constitutes the transfer of substantially all the XL-Cayman's assets to the XL-Switzerland.
                    Section 4.3. XL-Switzerland represents and warrants that it is a limited liability company duly organized and validly existing under the laws of Switzerland.
                    Section 4.4. Each of XL-Cayman and XL-Switzerland represents and warrants that neither XL-Cayman nor XL-Switzerland shall, immediately after the Succession Event, be in default of any covenant or condition under the Purchase Contracts, the Purchase Contract Agreement or the Pledge Agreement.
                    Section 5.1. . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Supplemental Agreement, including Articles II and III hereof, XL-Switzerland hereby expressly assumes all the obligations of XL-Cayman under the Purchase Contracts and the Purchase Contract Agreement.
Assumption
                    Section 5.2. . Upon the consummation of the Succession Event:
Succession and Substitution
                    Section 6.1. . Pursuant to Section 10.4 of the Purchase Contract Agreement, any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by the Purchase Contract Agreement, as amended and supplemented hereby:
Notices
          Section 7.1. .
Unconditional Guarantee
          (a) Each Guarantor hereby jointly and severally, fully and unconditionally guarantees (each, together with the XL-Cayman Guarantees and the Parent Guarantees, each as defined below, a "") to the Holders of the Purchase Contracts (i) all payments on the Purchase Contracts when due and (ii) the performance of XL-Switzerland's obligation to deposit with the Agent one or more certificates representing validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable newly issued Parent Ordinary Shares (herein, the "") upon payment in full of the Purchase Price for such Parent Ordinary Shares (together with the XL-Cayman Obligations and the Parent Obligations, each as defined below, the ""), each in accordance with the provisions of the Purchase Contracts and the Purchase Contract Agreement, each as amended and supplemented hereby, as provided below.
Guarantee
deposit of shares
Obligations
          (b) In addition to the Guarantees described in Section 7.1(a) herein, XL-Cayman also hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees (each, an "") to the Holders of the Purchase Contracts the performance of all other obligations of XL-Switzerland under the Purchase Contract (the ""), each in accordance with the provisions of the Purchase Contracts and the Purchase Contract Agreement, each as amended and supplemented hereby, as provided below.
XL-Cayman Guarantee
XL-Cayman Obligations
          (c) In addition to the Guarantees described in Section 7.1(a) herein, the Parent also hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees (each, a "") the XL-Cayman Obligations described in Section 7.1(b) herein (the "").
Parent Guarantee
Parent Obligations
          (d) Each Guarantor hereby waives notice of acceptance of the applicable Guarantee and of default of performance by XL-Switzerland, and hereby agrees that payment or the performance of any Obligation, including, but not limited to, the deposit of shares, as applicable, under the Guarantees shall be subject to no condition other than the giving of a written request for payment or performance, as applicable, in the manner provided in Section 1.5 of the Purchase Contract Agreement, as amended and
supplemented by Section 6.1 of this Supplemental Agreement. Each Guarantee is a guarantee of payment or performance, as applicable, and not of collection.
          (e) The obligations of the Guarantors under the Guarantees shall in no way be impaired by: (i) any extension, amendment, modification or renewal of the Purchase Contracts or the Purchase Contract Agreement or this Supplemental Agreement; (ii) any waiver of any default, extension of time or failure to enforce any of the provisions of the Purchase Contracts, the Purchase Contract Agreement or this Supplemental Agreement; or (iii) any extension, moratorium or other relief granted to XL-Switzerland, as applicable, pursuant to any applicable law or statute.
          (f) The Guarantors shall jointly and severally be obligated to make payment or perform, as applicable, under the Guarantees, for the benefit of the Holders of the Purchase Contracts, in the same manner in which XL-Switzerland is obligated to make payments on the Purchase Contracts or perform under the Purchase Contract Agreement, as amended and supplemented hereby, as applicable.
          (g) Subject to clause (f) below, the Guarantors hereby agree that:
          (h) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Guarantees, no Guarantor waives any defense that would be available to XL-Switzerland based on a breach, default or misrepresentation by the Agent, or failure of any condition to XL-Switzerland's obligations under the Purchase Contract Agreement or the illegality of any provision of the Purchase Contract Agreement.
          (i) Each Guarantor further agrees that, to the extent that XL-Switzerland or such Guarantor makes a payment or payments to, or a deposit or deposits of shares with, the Agent, which payment or payments or deposit or deposits or any part thereof are subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside and/or repaid or returned to XL-Switzerland or the Guarantor or their respective estate, trustee, receiver or any other party under any bankruptcy laws, state or federal law, common law or
equitable cause, then to the extent of such payment, repayment, deposit or return, the Guarantee and the advances or part thereof which have been paid, deposited, reduced or satisfied by such amount shall be reinstated and continued in full force and effect as of the date such initial payment, deposit, reduction or satisfaction occurred.
          Section 7.2. .
Execution and Delivery of Guarantee
          (a) If an officer whose signature is on this Supplemental Agreement, including an officer of a Guarantor, no longer holds that office, a Guarantee shall be valid nevertheless.
          (b) The Guarantees contained in this Supplemental Agreement are entered into by the Guarantors for the benefit of the Holders from time to time of the Purchase Contracts. Such provisions shall not be deemed to create any right, or to be in whole or in part for the benefit, of any Person other than the Agent, the Guarantors, the Holders from time to time of the Purchase Contracts and their permitted successors and assigns.
          (c) The delivery of the Guarantees to the Agent shall constitute due delivery of the Guarantees on behalf of the Guarantors to all Holders of the Purchase Contracts authenticated and delivered under the Purchase Contract Agreement, whether or not notation of the Guarantees is made upon any such Purchase Contract.
                       Section 7.3. . The Guarantors shall be subrogated to all rights (other than the right to receive Parent Ordinary Shares as described in Section 2.1(a) herein) of the Holders of the Purchase Contracts and the Agent against XL-Switzerland pursuant to the provisions of the Guarantees; , , that the Guarantors shall not be entitled to enforce, or to receive any payments or require performance arising out of or based upon, such right of subrogation until the Contract Adjustment Payments, Deferred Contract Adjustment Payments, if any, and additional amounts, if any, payable in respect of all of the Purchase Contracts issued under the Purchase Contract Agreement shall have been paid in full and all performance required under all of the Purchase Contracts issued under the Purchase Contract Agreement, shall have been completed, as applicable.
Waiver of Subrogation
provided
however
                       Section 7.4. . Nothing contained in this Article VII shall limit the right of the Agent or the Holders of the Purchase Contracts to take any action pursuant to Article VI of the Purchase Contract Agreement or to pursue any other rights or remedies under the Purchase Contract Agreement, this Supplemental Agreement or under applicable law.
No Suspension of Remedies
                       Section 7.5. . The Guarantees shall remain in full force and effect and shall be binding on the Guarantors, their successors and assigns until all of the Obligations have been satisfied in full.
Termination
                       Section 8.1. . The Agent accepts this Supplemental Agreement and agrees to execute its duties and responsibilities as hereby amended and supplemented upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Purchase Contract Agreement, including without limitation the terms and provisions defining and limiting the liabilities and responsibilities of the Agent, which terms and provisions shall in like manner define and limit its liabilities and responsibilities in the performance of its duties created by the Purchase Contract Agreement as hereby amended and supplemented; and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, XL-Switzerland affirms as its own the rights and responsibilities of XL-Cayman with respect to the Agent under Section 7.7(c) of the Purchase Contract Agreement.
Acceptance by Agent
                       Section 8.2. . The Purchase Contract Agreement, as amended and supplemented by this Supplemental Agreement, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Agreement shall be deemed part of the Purchase Contract Agreement in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
Ratification of Purchase Contract Agreement
                       Section 8.3. . This Supplemental Agreement shall become a legally effective and binding instrument upon the execution and delivery hereof by all parties hereto.
Effectiveness
                       Section 8.4. . Except as amended and supplemented hereby, all provisions in the Purchase Contract Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Purchase Contract Agreement
                       Section 8.5. . As of the Effective Time, the provisions of each Unit then outstanding shall be deemed to be conformed, without the necessity for any reissuance or exchange of such Unit or any other action on the part of the Holders, Parent, XL-Cayman, XL-Switzerland or Agent, so as to reflect this Supplemental Agreement.
Units Deemed Conformed
                       Section 8.6. . All covenants and agreements in this Supplemental Agreement by XL-Cayman, XL-Switzerland and Parent shall bind their successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.                        Section 8.7. . If any provision hereof is invalid and unenforceable in any jurisdiction, then, to the fullest extent permitted by law, (i) the other provisions hereof shall remain in full force and effect in such jurisdiction and shall be liberally construed in order to carry out the intentions of the parties hereto as nearly as may be possible and (ii) the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision hereof in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Successors and Assigns
Separability Clause
                       Section 8.8. . Nothing in this Supplemental Agreement or in the Units, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and, to the extent provided hereby, the Holders, any benefits or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Supplemental Agreement. The Holders from time to time shall be beneficiaries of this Supplemental Agreement and shall be bound by all of
Benefits of Agreement
the terms and conditions hereof and of the Units evidenced by their Certificates by their acceptance of delivery of such Certificates.
                       Section 8.9. . THIS SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT AND THE UNITS SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT UNDER, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. XL-Cayman, XL-Switzerland, Parent, the Agent and the Holders from time to time of the Units, acting through the Agent as their attorney-in-fact, hereby submit to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and of any New York state court sitting in the Borough of Manhattan in New York City for the purposes of all legal proceedings arising out of or relating to this Supplemental Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. XL-Cayman, XL-Switzerland, Parent, the Agent and the Holders from time to time of the Units, acting through the Agent as their attorney-in-fact, irrevocably waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which they may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such proceeding brought in such court and any claim that any such proceeding brought in such a court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
Governing Law
                       Section 8.10. . This Supplemental Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument, and any of the parties hereto may execute this Supplemental Agreement by signing any such counterpart.
Counterparts
                       Section 8.11. . A copy of this Supplemental Agreement shall be available at all reasonable times during normal business hours at the Corporate Trust Office for inspection by any Holder.
Inspection of Agreement
                       Section 8.12. . No failure on the part of XL-Cayman, XL-Switzerland, Parent, the Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary or any of their respective agents to exercise, and no course of dealing with respect to, and no delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise by XL-Cayman, XL-Switzerland, Parent, the Agent, the Collateral Agent, the Securities Intermediary or any of their respective agents of any right, power or remedy hereunder preclude any further exercise thereof or the exercise of any right, power or remedy. The remedies herein are cumulative and are not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver
                       Section 8.13. . EACH OF XL-CAYMAN, XL-SWITZERLAND, PARENT AND THE AGENT HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Waiver of Jury Trial
                       Section 8.14. . The Agent shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Agreement or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which are made solely by XL-Cayman, XL-Switzerland and the Parent.
Validity and Sufficiency
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this First Supplement to the Purchase Contract Agreement is executed as of the date first set forth above.

Exhibit 4.2
          THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE PLEDGE AGREEMENT, dated as of June 30, 2010 (this ""), among XL Capital Ltd, a Cayman Islands exempted limited company (""), XL Company Switzerland GmbH, a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Switzerland (""), and The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York banking corporation, not individually but solely as collateral agent (in such capacity, together with its successors in such capacity, the ""), as custodial agent (in such capacity, together with its successors in such capacity, the ""), as securities intermediary with respect to the Collateral Account (in such capacity, together with its successors in such capacity, the ""), in each case pursuant to the Pledge Agreement (as hereafter referred to), and as purchase contract agent and as attorney-in-fact of the Holders from time to time of the Units (in such capacity, together with its successors in such capacity, the "", and in all such capacities collectively, the "") pursuant to the Purchase Contract Agreement.
Amendment
XL-Cayman
XL-Switzerland
Collateral Agent
Custodial Agent
Securities Intermediary
Purchase Contract Agent
Agents
          WHEREAS, XL-Cayman and the Agents executed and delivered a Pledge Agreement, dated as of August 5, 2008 (the "");
Pledge Agreement
          WHEREAS, XL-Cayman and the Purchase Contract Agent executed and delivered a Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of August 5, 2008, as amended and supplemented by the First Supplement to the Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as the date hereof (the ""), to provide for the execution and delivery of the Purchase Contracts and Certificates related to the Normal Units and the Stripped Units (collectively, the "");
Purchase Contract Agreement
Units
          WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution and delivery of this Amendment, XL-Cayman is transferring substantially all of its assets, including all of the Collateral, to XL-Switzerland (the "");
Succession Event
          WHEREAS, as a condition to the Succession Event, Section 9.1 of the Purchase Contract Agreement requires, among other things, that XL-Switzerland execute and deliver one or more supplemental agreements to expressly assume all the obligations of XL-Cayman under the Purchase Contracts, the Purchase Contract Agreement and the Pledge Agreement;
          WHEREAS, Section 9.1(i) and (ii) of the Pledge Agreement authorizes XL-Cayman and the Agents to enter into an amendment without the consent of any Holders or holders of any Separate Notes to, respectively, (a) evidence the succession of another Person to XL-Cayman, and the assumption of any such successor of the covenants of XL-Cayman and (b) add to the covenants of XL-Cayman for the benefit of the Holders or holders of any Separate Notes so long as such covenants do not adversely affect the validity, perfection or priority of the security interests granted or created under the Pledge Agreement;
          WHEREAS, XL-Switzerland and XL-Cayman desire to enter into an amendment to the Pledge Agreement pursuant to the terms of Section 9.1(i) and (ii) thereof;
          WHEREAS, the changes to the Pledge Agreement set forth in this Supplemental Agreement do not adversely affect the validity, perfection or priority of the security interests granted or created under the Pledge Agreement;
          WHEREAS, XL-Switzerland and XL-Cayman have requested that the Agents execute and deliver this Amendment; and
          NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of their mutual promises, XL-Switzerland and XL-Cayman covenant and agree with the Agents as follows:
          Section 1.1 . Unless the context otherwise requires:
Definition of Terms
          Section 2.1 Each of XL-Switzerland and XL-Cayman represents and warrants that the Succession Event constitutes the transfer of substantially all XL-Cayman's assets to XL-Switzerland.
          Section 3.1 . XL-Switzerland hereby expressly assumes all the obligations of XL-Cayman under the Pledge Agreement.
Assumption
          Section 3.2 . The Agents accept this Amendment and agree to execute their duties and responsibilities as hereby amended and supplemented upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Pledge Agreement, including without limitation the terms and provisions defining and limiting the liabilities and responsibilities of the Agents, which terms and provisions shall in like manner define and limit its liabilities and responsibilities in the performance of its duties created by the Pledge Agreement as hereby amended; and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, XL-Switzerland affirms its rights and responsibilities with respect to the Agents under Section 8.6 of the Pledge Agreement.
Acceptance by Agents
          Section 4.1 . Upon the consummation of the Succession Event, XL-Switzerland shall succeed to XL-Cayman under the Pledge Agreement, with the same effect as if XL-Switzerland had been named as the "Company" in the Pledge Agreement.
Succession
          Section 4.2 . Upon XL-Switzerland's succession to XL-Cayman under the Pledge Agreement pursuant to Section 4.1 herein, XL-Cayman (a) agrees to be held jointly and severally liable for any and all obligations of XL-Switzerland under the Pledge Agreement and (b) acknowledges it will no longer have any rights, title or interest in the Collateral.
Co-Obligor
          Section 5.1 . From and after the date hereof, references in the Pledge Agreement to the delivery, issuance or purchase of the Ordinary Shares of the Company in connection with the settlement of Purchase Contracts shall be deemed to refer to the delivery, issuance or purchase of any such securities, cash or property that the Holders of Units are entitled to receive upon settlement of such Purchase Contracts taking into account, among other things, any conversion of the Ordinary Shares covered by each Purchase Contract pursuant to Section 5.6(b)(i) of the Purchase Contract Agreement.
References to Ordinary Shares
          Section 6.1 . Pursuant to Section 10.4 of the Pledge Agreement, all notices, requests, instructions, consents and other communications provided for in the Pledge Agreement, as amended and supplemented hereby, shall be given or made in writing (including, without limitation, by telecopy) as set forth in Section 10.4 of the Pledge Agreement, or, if sent to XL-Switzerland, will be mailed, delivered or telecopied to XL House, One Bermudiana Road, Hamilton, HM 08, Bermuda (facsimile: 441-292-5280), Attention: Manager.
Notices
          Section 7.1 . The Pledge Agreement, as amended hereby, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Amendment shall be deemed part of the Pledge Agreement in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
Ratification of Pledge Agreement
          Section 7.2 . This Amendment shall become a legally effective and binding instrument upon the execution and delivery hereof by all parties hereto.
Effectiveness
          Section 7.3 . Except as amended hereby, all provisions in the Pledge Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Pledge Agreement
          Section 7.4 . Every Holder of Certificates heretofore or hereafter authenticated, executed on behalf of the Holders and delivered under the Purchase Contract Agreement shall be bound hereby.
Holders of Certificates Bound
          Section 7.5 . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument, and any of the parties hereto may execute this Amendment by signing any such counterpart.
Counterparts
          Section 7.6 . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the respective successors and assigns of XL-Cayman, XL-Switzerland, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Securities Intermediary and the Purchase Contract Agent, and the Holders from time to time of the Units, by their acceptance of the same, shall be deemed to have agreed to be bound by the provisions hereof and to have ratified the agreements of, and the grant of the Pledge hereunder by, the Purchase Contract Agent.           Section 7.7 . If any provision hereof is invalid and unenforceable in any jurisdiction, then, to the fullest extent permitted by law, (i) the other provisions hereof shall remain in full force and effect in such jurisdiction and shall be liberally construed in order to carry out the intentions of the parties hereto as nearly as possible and (ii) the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision hereof in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Successors and Assigns
Severability
          Section 7.8 . EACH PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT ANY CONTROVERSY WHICH MAY ARISE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IS LIKELY TO INVOLVE COMPLICATED AND DIFFICULT ISSUES, AND THEREFORE IT HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Waiver of Jury Trial
          Section 7.9 . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. Without limiting the foregoing, the above choice of law is expressly agreed to by the Securities Intermediary, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent and the Holders from time to
Governing Law
time acting through the Purchase Contract Agent, as their attorney-in-fact, in connection with the establishment and maintenance of the Collateral Account, which law, for purposes of the Code, shall be deemed to be the law governing all Securities Entitlement related thereto. In addition, such parties agree that, for purposes of the Code, New York shall be the Securities Intermediary's jurisdiction. The Company, the Collateral Agent and the Holders from time to time of the Units, acting through the Purchase Contract Agent as the attorney-in-fact, hereby submit to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and of any New York state court sitting in the Borough of Manhattan in New York City for the purposes of all legal proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company, the Collateral Agent and the Holders from time to time of the Units, acting through the Purchase Contract Agent as their attorney-in-fact, irrevocably waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which they may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such proceeding brought in such a court and any claim that any such proceeding brought in such a court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
          Section 7.10 . No failure on the part of any party hereto or any of its agents to exercise, and no course of dealing with respect to, and no delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise by any party hereto or any of its agents of any right, power or remedy hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. The remedies herein are cumulative and are not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver
          Section 7.11 . Each of XL-Cayman, XL-Switzerland, the Collateral Agent and the Securities Intermediary agrees that the Purchase Contract Agent is, in acting hereunder with respect to XL-Cayman and XL-Switzerland, entitled to all rights, privileges, benefits, protections, immunities and indemnities provided to it under the Purchase Contract Agreement.
Incorporation by Reference
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this First Amendment to the Pledge Agreement is executed as of the date first set forth above.

Exhibit 4.3
                    SIXTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of June 30, 2010 (the ""), by and among XL CAPITAL LTD, a Cayman Islands exempted limited company (the ""), the entire issued ordinary share capital of which is owned by the Guarantor (as defined below) and having its principal office at XL House, One Bermudiana Road, Hamilton HM 08, Bermuda, XL GROUP PLC, a public limited company incorporated under the laws of Ireland (the ""), having its registered office at No. 1 Hatch Street Upper, 4 Floor, Dublin 2, Ireland, and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON, a New York banking corporation, having a Corporate Trust Office at 101 Barclay Street, Floor 8W, New York, New York 10286, as trustee (the "");
Sixth Supplemental Indenture
Company
Guarantor
th
Trustee
                    WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee, formerly known as The Bank of New York, have as of June 2, 2004 entered into an Indenture (the "") providing for the issuance by the Company from time to time of its senior debt securities;
Base Indenture
                    WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have executed certain supplemental indentures including that certain Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 5, 2008, pursuant to which the Company issued a series of its 8.25% Senior Notes due 2021 ("" or the "") under the Base Indenture and provided for certain additional provisions of such 2021 Securities (the "" and together with the Base Indenture and this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the "");
2021 Securities
Notes
Fifth Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
                    WHEREAS, the 2021 Securities were issued as part of the 10.75% Equity Security Units issued by the Company on August 5, 2008;
                    WHEREAS, the Guarantor desires to Guarantee (as defined herein) the 2021 Securities and to correct an inconsistency resulting from the Guarantee;
                    WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 9.01(1) and (4) of the Base Indenture, and Section 4.3 of the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, the Company and the Trustee may enter into supplemental indentures without the consent of any Holder to, respectively, (i) cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency and (ii) provide any guarantees of securities of any series, any such changes do not materially and adversely affect the interest of the holders of such securities;
provided
that
                    WHEREAS, the changes to the Indenture set forth in this Sixth Supplemental Indenture do not materially and adversely affect the interest of the holders of the 2021 Securities;
                    WHEREAS, the execution and delivery of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture has been authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Guarantor or a duly authorized committee thereof;
                    WHEREAS, concurrent with the execution hereof, the Company has delivered an Officers' Certificate and has caused its counsel to deliver to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel; and
                    WHEREAS, all conditions and requirements of the Base Indenture necessary to make this Sixth Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal instrument in accordance with its terms have been performed and fulfilled by the parties hereto and the execution and delivery thereof have been in all respects duly authorized by the parties hereto.
                    NOW, THEREFORE, THE SIXTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
                    For and inconsideration of the mutual promises and agreements herein contained, the Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee covenant and agree, for the equal and proportional benefit of all Holders of the 2021 Securities (the ""), as follows:
Holders
                    Section 1.1. .
Definition of Terms
                    Unless otherwise provided herein or unless the context otherwise requires:
                    (a) a term defined in the Base Indenture or Fifth Supplemental Indenture has the same meaning when used in this Sixth Supplemental Indenture;
                    (b) a term defined anywhere in this Sixth Supplemental Indenture has the same meaning throughout;
                    (c) the singular includes the plural and vice versa;
                    (d) headings are for convenience of reference only and do not affect interpretation.
                    Section 2.1. .
Unconditional Guarantee
                    (a) The Guarantor does hereby fully and unconditionally guarantee (the "") to the Holders of the Notes all payments on the Notes when due, in accordance with the provisions of the Notes and the Indenture, each as amended and supplemented hereby, as provided below.
Guarantee
                    (b) The Guarantor hereby waives notice of acceptance of the Guarantee and of default of performance by the Company, and hereby agrees that payment under the Guarantee shall be subject to no condition other than the giving of a written request for payment stating the fact of default of performance, in the manner
provided in Section 1.05 of the Base Indenture. The Guarantee is a guarantee of payment and not of collection.
                    (c) The obligations of the Guarantor under the Guarantee shall in no way be impaired by: (i) any extension, amendment, modification or renewal of the Notes; (ii) any waiver of any Event of Default, extension of time or failure to enforce any of the provisions of the 2021 Securities or the Indenture; or (iii) any extension, moratorium or other relief granted to the Company pursuant to any applicable law or statute.
                    (d) The Guarantor shall be obligated to make payment under the Guarantee, for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes, in the same manner in which the Company is obligated to make payments on the Notes.
                    (e) Subject to clause (f) below, the Guarantor hereby agrees that:
                    (f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Guarantee, the Guarantor does not waive any defense that would be available to the Company based on a breach, default or misrepresentation by the Trustee, or failure of any condition to the Company's obligations under the Indenture or the illegality of any provision of the Indenture.
                    (g) The Guarantor further agrees that, to the extent that the Company or the Guarantor makes a payment or payments to the Trustee, which payment or payments or any part thereof are subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside and/or repaid to the Company or the Guarantor or their respective estate, trustee, receiver or any other party under any bankruptcy laws, state or federal law, common law or equitable cause, then to the extent of such payment or repayment, the Guarantee and the advances or part thereof which have been paid, reduced or satisfied by such amount shall be reinstated and continued in full force and effect as of the date such initial payment, reduction or satisfaction occurred.
                    Section 2.2. .
Execution and Delivery of Guarantee
                    (a) If an officer whose signature is on this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, including an officer of the Guarantor, no longer holds that office, the Guarantee shall be valid nevertheless.
                    (b) The Guarantee contained in this Sixth Supplemental Indenture are entered into by the Guarantor for the benefit of the Holders from time to time of the Notes. Such provisions shall not be deemed to create any right, or to be in whole or in part for the benefit, of any Person other than the Trustee, the Guarantor, the Holders from time to time of the Notes and their permitted successors and assigns.
                    (c) The delivery of the Guarantee to the Trustee shall constitute due delivery of the Guarantee on behalf of the Guarantor to all Holders of the 2021 Securities
authenticated and delivered under the Indenture, whether or not notation of the Guarantee is made upon any such Note.
                    Section 2.3. . The Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holders of the Notes and the Trustee against the Company pursuant to the provisions of the Guarantee; , , that the Guarantor shall not be entitled to enforce, or to receive any payments arising out of or based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of, interest on and additional amounts, if any, payable in respect of all of the 2021 Securities issued under the Indenture shall have been paid in full.
Waiver of Subrogation
provided
however
                    Section 2.4. . Nothing contained in this Article II shall limit the right of the Trustee or the Holders of the Notes to take any action pursuant to Article Five of the Base Indenture or to pursue any other rights or remedies under the Indenture or under applicable law.
No Suspension of Remedies
                    Section 2.5. . The Guarantee shall remain in full force and effect and shall be binding on the Guarantor, its successors and assigns until all of the Obligations have been satisfied in full.
Termination
                    Section 3.1. . The text of Section 2.14 of the Fifth Supplemental Indenture is hereby deleted and replace in its entirety by: "Reserved."
Deletion of Inconsistency
                    Section 4.1. . Each and every term and condition contained in this Sixth Supplemental Indenture that modifies, amends or supplements the terms and conditions of the Base Indenture or the Fifth Supplemental Indenture shall apply only to the 2021 Securities and not to any other existing or future series of Securities issued under the Base Indenture.
Application of Sixth Supplemental Indenture
                    Section 4.2. . Nothing contained in this Sixth Supplemental Indenture shall or shall be construed to confer upon any person other than a Holder of the Notes, the Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee any right or interest to avail itself or himself, as the case may be, of any benefit under any provision of the Indenture.
Benefits of Sixth Supplemental Indenture
                    Section 4.3. . The Company, the Guarantor and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may amend, modify or supplement this Sixth Supplemental Indenture in accordance with the provisions of Article Nine of the Base Indenture.
Amendment of Sixth Supplemental Indenture
                    Section 4.4. . This Sixth Supplemental Indenture shall be effective as of the date first above written and upon the execution and delivery hereof by each of the parties hereto.
Effective Date
                    Section 4.5. .
Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction
                    THIS SIXTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND EACH NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
                    The Guarantor hereby submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and of any New York state court sitting in the Borough of Manhattan in New York City for the purposes of all legal proceedings arising out of or relating to the Indenture. The Guarantor irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such proceeding brought in such a court and any claim that any such proceeding brought in such a court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
                    Section 4.6. . This Sixth Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
                    Section 4.7. . Each of the Base Indenture and the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, each as supplemented by this Sixth Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Sixth Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
Ratification of Indenture
                    Section 4.8. . The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Sixth Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which are made solely by the Company and the Guarantor.
Validity and Sufficiency
                    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Sixth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed by their respective officers hereunto duly authorized, all as of the day and year first above written.

Exhibit 4.4
                    This Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 30, 2010 (this ""), is entered into among XL Company Switzerland GmbH, a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Switzerland (the ""), XL Capital Finance (Europe) plc, a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales (the ""), XL Capital Ltd, an exempted limited company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands (the ""), and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America (as successor to State Street Bank and Trust Company), as Trustee under the Indenture (as defined below). Capitalized terms used, but not otherwise defined, herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Indenture.
Supplemental Indenture
New Guarantor
Company
Existing Guarantor
                    WHEREAS, the Company, the Existing Guarantor and State Street Bank and Trust Company have heretofore executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of January 10, 2002 (as amended, supplemented, waived or otherwise modified, including as supplemented by the terms and provisions included in the Board Resolution dated January 7, 2002 governing the issuance of the 6.50% Senior Notes due 2012, the ""), providing for the issuance, from time to time, of the Securities;
Indenture
                    WHEREAS, pursuant to of the Indenture, the Guarantor shall not convey, transfer, sell or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person unless, among other things, such Person expressly assumes, by supplemental indenture satisfactory in form to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment pursuant to the Securities, the Indenture and the Guarantee of the principal of, any premium and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to all of the Securities issued thereunder, and the performance of all applicable obligations under the Indenture, the Guarantee and the Securities issued thereunder;
Section 801
                    WHEREAS, pursuant to of the Indenture, such Person to whom the properties and assets of the Guarantor are conveyed, transferred, sold or leased substantially as an entirety shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of the Guarantor under the Indenture, the Securities and the Guarantee with the same effect as if such Person had been named as the Guarantor therein, and thereafter, the existing Guarantor shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under the Indenture, the Guarantee and the Securities;
Section 801
                    WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, the Existing Guarantor is transferring its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to the New Guarantor; and
                    WHEREAS, pursuant to of the Indenture, the Trustee, the Company and the Guarantor are authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture to supplement the Indenture, without the consent of any Holder;
Section 901
                    NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the New Guarantor, the
Company, the Existing Guarantor and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of series thereof, as follows:
                    Section 1.1. . The New Guarantor hereby becomes a party to the Indenture as the Guarantor and as such will have all of the rights and be subject to all of the obligations and agreements of the Guarantor under the Indenture. The New Guarantor agrees to be bound by all of the provisions of the Indenture applicable to the Guarantor and to perform all of the obligations and agreements of the Guarantor under the Indenture.
Agreement to be Bound
                    Section 1.2. . The New Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, on an unsecured, unsubordinated basis, to each Holder of a Security authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of the Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture, the Securities or the obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee thereunder, the Guaranteed Obligations, all as more fully set forth in of the Indenture.
Guarantee
Article Thirteen
                    Section 1.3. . In accordance with of the Indenture, the Existing Guarantor is hereby relieved of all obligations and covenants under the Indenture, the Guarantee and the Securities.
Release of Existing Guarantor
Section 801
                    Section 2.1. . The address to which any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by the Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with, the Guarantor by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be addressed is XL Company Switzerland GmbH, XL House, One Bermudiana Road, Hamilton HM 08, Bermuda, Attn: Kirstin R. Gould (or any other address furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Guarantor for such purpose).
Notices, Etc. to the Guarantor
                    Section 2.2. . Nothing expressed or mentioned herein is intended or shall be construed to give any Person, firm or corporation, other than the Holders and the Trustee, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Supplemental Indenture or the Indenture or any provision herein or therein contained.
Parties
                    Section 2.3. . This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
                    Section 2.4. . In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture, the Securities or the Guarantee shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause
                    Section 2.5. . Except as expressly amended or supplemented hereby, the Indenture is in all respects ratified and
Ratification of Indenture; Supplemental Indenture Part of Indenture
confirmed and all the terms, conditions and provisions thereof shall remain in full force and effect. This Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of the Indenture for all purposes, and every Holder of Securities heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered shall be bound hereby. The Trustee makes no representation or warranty as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein.
                    Section 2.6. . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. One signed copy is enough to prove this Supplemental Indenture. This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Duplicate and Counterpart Originals
                    Section 2.7. . The headings of the Articles and Sections in this Supplemental Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not intended to be considered as a part hereof and shall not modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
Headings
                    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first above written.

     
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
      For Value Received, hereby sell, assign and transfer unto
                                        

Exhibit 10.1
          This INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT (including Appendices A and B hereto, this "") is dated and effective as of July 1, 2010 and made by and between XL Capital Ltd, a Cayman Islands exempted company (the ""), and [] (""). Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in the body of this Agreement shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Appendix B hereto.
Agreement
Company
Indemnitee
          WHEREAS, the Company has proposed to effect a scheme of arrangement under Cayman Islands law (the "") pursuant to which the ordinary shareholders of the Company would become ordinary shareholders of XL Group plc, an Irish public limited company (""), and the Company would become a subsidiary of Parent;
Scheme of Arrangement
Parent
          WHEREAS, it is essential to the Company and Parent that Parent retain and attract highly experienced and capable persons to serve as directors and Employee Officers of Parent;
          WHEREAS, highly experienced and capable persons are more reluctant to serve publicly held corporations as directors or in other capacities unless they are provided with adequate protection through insurance, indemnification and exculpation against risks of claims and actions against them arising out of their service to and activities on behalf of the corporation;
          WHEREAS, due to restrictions imposed by Irish law, Parent is not able to provide for exculpation of its directors and Employee Officers or to confer indemnification and expense advancement rights on its directors and Employee Officers as broad as the indemnification and expense advancement rights provided by the Company prior to the effectiveness of the Scheme of Arrangement; and
          WHEREAS, in light of the limited ability under Irish law for Parent to exculpate or commit in advance to indemnify or advance expenses to its directors and Employee Officers, it is reasonable, prudent and desirable for the Company, acting in its own best interests as a member of the XL group of companies (which group is comprised of Parent and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "" and each, an "")), contractually to obligate itself to indemnify, and, if so requested by Indemnitee, to advance expenses, as provided herein to an extent substantially similar to that previously provided by the Company, and contractually to provide additional procedural protections to help ensure that such indemnification and expense advancement rights will in fact be available to Indemnitee so long as Indemnitee acts in good faith in the performance of Indemnitee's duty to the XL Group of Companies; and Indemnitee desires to continue to so serve XL Group of Companies provided, and on the express condition, that he or she is furnished with the indemnity set forth herein;
XL Group of Companies
XL Group Company
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
          4. .
Indemnification for Proceedings Other than Proceedings by or in the Right of Parent
          5. . Notwithstanding the limitations of Sections 3, 4 or 10(d), to the fullest extent permitted by Cayman Islands law and to the extent that Indemnitee has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in whole or in part, in defense of any Indemnifiable Proceeding, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, or if it is determined in a final and non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction that Indemnitee is otherwise entitled to be indemnified against Expenses, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against all Expenses incurred in connection with such Indemnifiable Proceeding.
Indemnification for Expenses of Successful Party
          6. . Except as limited by Section 10, if Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Agreement to indemnification by the Company for some or a portion of the judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement or Expenses incurred in connection with any Indemnifiable Proceeding, but not, however, for all of the total amount thereof, the Company shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion of such judgments, fines, amounts paid
Partial Indemnification
in settlement and Expenses incurred to which Indemnitee is entitled (as determined in accordance with Article 2(e) of the Procedural Appendix).
          7. . Indemnification and advancement of Expenses provided by this Agreement shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which Indemnitee may now or in the future be entitled under (i) any provision of the memorandum of association and articles of association of Parent (the ""), the memorandum of association and articles of association of the Company (the " "), or the governing documents of any other entity served by Indemnitee at the request of Parent; (ii) any vote of the shareholders of Parent, the Board of Directors of Parent (the "") or the Board of Directors of the Company (the ""); (iii) any provision of law; (iv) any agreement; (v) any insurance policy or (vi) otherwise. Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to limit or impair in any way any right of Indemnitee with respect to indemnification, advancement of Expenses or exculpation under the Company Governing Documents as in effect prior to the Scheme of Arrangement. The Company acknowledges and agrees that nothing herein shall be deemed to constitute a waiver by Indemnitee of any such rights.
Other Rights to Indemnification
Parent Governing Documents
Company
Governing Documents
Parent Board
Company Board
          8. . In the event that Indemnitee is subject to or intervenes in any Proceeding in which the validity or enforceability of this Agreement is at issue or seeks a Proceeding to enforce Indemnitee's rights under, or to recover damages for breach of, this Agreement, if Indemnitee prevails in whole or in part in such Proceeding, Indemnitee shall be entitled to recover from the Company and shall be indemnified by the Company against any Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with such Proceeding.
Expenses to Enforce Agreement
          9. . All agreements and obligations of the Company contained herein shall continue during the period Indemnitee is a director or Employee Officer of Parent or is serving at the request of Parent as a director, officer, employee or fiduciary of any other entity (including another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or employee benefit plan) and shall continue thereafter with respect to any possible claims by reason of the fact that Indemnitee was a director or Employee Officer of Parent or was serving at the request of Parent as a director, officer, employee or fiduciary of any other entity (including another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or employee benefit plan). This Agreement shall be binding upon all successors and assigns of the Company and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, personal representatives and estate of Indemnitee. From and after the effective time of the Scheme of Arrangement, the Company shall require and cause any successor (whether direct or indirect and whether by purchase, merger, consolidation, scheme or arrangement, amalgamation or otherwise), including any person or entity who acquires all, substantially all, or a substantial part, of the business and/or assets of the Company, as the case may be, by written agreement, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place. If such Agreement shall be unenforceable against any such successor, or if the Company Board makes a good faith determination in its discretion that such successor is less creditworthy than the Company, then the Company will assign the Agreement to a subsidiary of the Company selected by the Company Board and reasonably satisfactory to Indemnitee, against which subsidiary the Agreement shall then be enforceable.
Continuation of Indemnity
          10. . The rights of Indemnitee to indemnification and advancement of Expenses under this Agreement shall be as set forth herein, except that no indemnification or advancement of Expenses shall be paid hereunder to Indemnitee by the Company:
Limitations on Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
          11. .
Additional Agreements
          12. If any provision or provisions of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement (including all portions of any paragraphs of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable that are not by themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (b) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Agreement (including all portions of any paragraph of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent of the parties that the Company provide protection to Indemnitee to the fullest enforceable extent that is consistent with the obligations of the Company to indemnify Indemnitee prior to the effectiveness of the Scheme of Arrangement. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between this Agreement and the provisions of the Company Governing Documents, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law this Agreement shall govern with respect to any Indemnifiable Proceeding to which Indemnitee becomes a party on or after the effective date hereof, and to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law the Company Governing Documents shall govern with respect to any Indemnifiable Proceeding to which Indemnitee became a party prior to the effective date hereof.
. Separability
          13. . The headings of the sections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute part of this Agreement or to affect the construction thereof. References herein to section numbers are to sections of this Agreement, unless otherwise specified. All pronouns and any variations thereof shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine, neuter, singular or plural as appropriate. The word "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation."
Headings; Interpretation
          14. . All notices, requests, demands and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed duly given (i) if delivered by hand and receipted for by the party addressee, on the date of such receipt; (ii) if mailed by domestic certified or registered mail with postage prepaid, on the third business day after the date postmarked; or (iii) if sent by facsimile transmission and fax confirmation is received, on the next business day following the date on which such facsimile transmission was sent. Addresses for notice to either party are as shown on the signature page of this Agreement, or as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party as provided in this Section. The address for notice to Parent shall be the same as indicated for the Company on the signature page of this Agreement, or as subsequently modified by written notice to Indemnitee as provided in this Section.
Notices
          15.
Governing Law; Consent to Jurisdiction.
other country; (ii) consent to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Delaware Court for purposes of any Proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Agreement; (iii) waive any objection to the laying of venue of any such Proceeding in the Delaware Court, and (iv) waive, and agree not to plead or to make, any claim that any such Proceeding brought in the Delaware Court has been brought in an improper or inconvenient forum.
16. .
Other Provisions
          (a) This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same Agreement. Only one such counterpart signed by the party against whom enforceability is sought needs to be produced as evidence of the existence of this Agreement.
          (b) Nothing contained in this Agreement shall confer upon Indemnitee (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any Employee Officer) any right with respect to the continuation of Indemnitee's employment with, or provision of services for, any entity within the XL Group of Companies, as applicable, or interfere in any way with the right of any entity within the XL Group of Companies, as applicable, at any time to terminate such employment or services for any reason, with or without cause, and with or without severance, except as may be otherwise provided in a separate written contract between Indemnitee and any entity within the XL Group of Companies.
          (c) Upon a payment to Indemnitee under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of Indemnitee to recover against any person (including Parent) for such liability, and Indemnitee shall execute all documents and instruments required and shall take such other actions as may be necessary to secure such rights, including the execution of such documents as may be necessary for the Company to bring suit to enforce such rights.
          (d) Each person serving as a director, corporate secretary or Employee Officer after the effectiveness of the scheme is intended to be and shall be a third party beneficiary of Section 11(a), as such Section 11(a) may be amended from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
          (e) Except as set forth in Section 11(b), no supplement, modification, amendment or termination of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by all parties hereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver and no waiver will be effective unless it is in writing and signed by the waiving party.
          (f) The parties hereto agree that Appendices A and B hereto form an integral part of this Agreement with respect to the subject matter hereof.
          (g) Unless otherwise specified, references to the term "Section" are references to the Sections of this Agreement, and references to the term "Article" are references to the Articles of the Procedural Appendix.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on and as of the day and year first above written.
Agreed and accepted as of the date hereof:
Signature Page to Deed of Indemnification
          Article 1. . Prior to submitting a claim for, or being entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses under this Agreement, Indemnitee shall first submit a written request to the Secretary of Parent for Parent to consider in its discretion, and to the extent permitted by law, whether Parent itself will provide indemnification (and whether Parent itself will advance Expenses in connection with the matter that is the subject of such indemnification request). Such request shall include documentation or information reasonably available to Indemnitee that provides a reasonably detailed description of the facts and circumstances of the request for indemnification or advancement of Expenses. Upon any such request by Indemnitee, Parent may, to the extent permitted by law, consider whether to make such indemnification or advancement of Expenses based on the facts and circumstances related to the request. Parent may require, as a condition to providing any permitted indemnification or advancement of Expenses, that Indemnitee enter into an agreement providing for such indemnification or advancement of Expenses (as applicable) to be made subject to substantially the same terms and conditions applicable to the provision of indemnification and/or advancement of Expenses (as applicable) by the Company hereunder. In the event indemnification and/or advancement of Expenses, as applicable (or a written commitment by Parent to promptly provide such indemnification and/or advancement of Expenses) has not been provided by Parent and received by Indemnitee within 5 business days after the delivery of Indemnitee's request of Parent pursuant to this Article 1, Indemnitee may submit a written request to the Company for indemnification pursuant to Article 2 of this Procedural Appendix or make a request for advancement under this Agreement pursuant to Article 3 of this Procedural Appendix, as applicable.
Request for Parent to Indemnify or Advance as a Prerequisite to Indemnification or Advancement Hereunder
          Article 2. .
Request for Company to Provide Indemnification
          (a) To receive indemnification under this Agreement, after complying with Article 1 of this Procedural Appendix, Indemnitee must submit a written request to the Secretary of the Company to provide such indemnification. Such request shall include (i) documentation or information reasonably available to Indemnitee that provides a reasonably detailed description of the facts and circumstances of the request for indemnification, and (ii) Indemnitee's selection of the Determining Party under Article 2(b).
          (b) Upon receipt of a request made pursuant to Article 2(a), the entitlement of Indemnitee to indemnification under this Agreement shall be determined by one of the following parties, as selected by Indemnitee in his or her sole discretion (such party, the ""): (i) the Company Board by a majority vote of Disinterested Directors, or (ii) by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Company Board, a copy of which shall be delivered to Indemnitee. In the event no Disinterested Director exists to constitute the Determining Party, Independent Counsel shall be the Determining Party. The Determining Party shall make the determination as to the entitlement of Indemnitee to indemnification under this Agreement not later than 45 calendar days after receipt by the Company of a request made
Determining Party
pursuant to Article 2(a) or, if Independent Counsel acts as the Determining Party, within 45 calendar days of agreement on the identity of such Independent Counsel.
          (c) In the event that a determination is made by the Company Board that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification by the Company hereunder, Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek a determination by Independent Counsel of Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification. Independent Counsel shall within 45 calendar days of agreement on the identity of such Independent Counsel provide a determination as to the entitlement of Indemnitee to indemnification under this Agreement in a written opinion to the Company Board, a copy of which shall be delivered to Indemnitee. Such determination by Independent Counsel shall be made and Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of the determination by the Company Board that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification. The Company shall not oppose Indemnitee's right to seek any such determination of Independent Counsel. If a determination is made by Independent Counsel that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall be bound by such determination and shall be precluded from asserting that such determination has not been made or that the procedure by which such determination was made is not valid, binding and enforceable. Any determination of Independent Counsel under this Article 2(c) shall be the final determination of entitlement to indemnification under this Article 2, subject to Article 5 of this Procedural Appendix.
de novo
          (d) Any Independent Counsel selected for purposes of Article 2(b) or Article 2(c) shall be selected by the Company and approved by Indemnitee (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), except that in the event that a Change in Control has occurred, any Independent Counsel shall be selected by Indemnitee. Upon failure of the Company to so select such Independent Counsel or upon failure of Indemnitee to so approve (or to so select, in the event that a Change in Control has occurred), such Independent Counsel shall be selected upon application to a court of competent jurisdiction.
          (e) If the Determining Party (including, for purposes of this Article 2(e), Independent Counsel selected under Article 2(c)) determines that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification as to part (but not all) of the application for indemnification, such person shall reasonably allocate such partial indemnification among the claims, issues or matters at issue at the time of the determination.
          (f) Any Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with a request for indemnification or payment of Expenses hereunder, under any other agreement with the Company or Parent, any provision of the Company Governing Documents or Parent Governing Documents or any directors' and officers' liability insurance, shall be borne by the Company. The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee for any such amounts referred to in the immediately preceding sentence and agrees to hold Indemnitee harmless therefrom irrespective of the outcome of the determination of Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification.
          (g) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Article 2, it is understood that no such determination pursuant to Article 2 of this Procedural Appendix shall be required with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification pursuant to Section 8 of this Agreement, Article 2(f) of this Procedural Appendix, or the last sentence of Article 5 of this Procedural Appendix.
          Article 3. . To receive advancement of Expenses under this Agreement, after complying with Article 1 of this Procedural Appendix, Indemnitee shall submit a written request to the Secretary of the Company. Such request shall reasonably evidence the Expenses incurred by Indemnitee and shall include or be accompanied by an undertaking, by or on behalf of Indemnitee, to reimburse such amounts to the Company if it is determined in a final and non-appealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified against such Expenses by the Company or Parent as provided by this Agreement or otherwise. Indemnitee's undertaking to reimburse any such amounts shall not be required to be secured and shall be interest free, subject to Section 10 of this Agreement. Each payment of Expenses by the Company shall be made within 10 calendar days after the receipt by the Company of a valid written request for advancement of Expenses.
Request for Company to Provide Advancement of Expenses
          Article 4. .
Effect of Certain Proceedings
          (a) In making a determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification hereunder, the Determining Party shall, to the fullest extent permitted by Cayman Islands law, presume that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification under this Agreement if Indemnitee has submitted a request for indemnification in accordance with Articles 1 and 2 of this Procedural Appendix, and the Company shall, to the fullest extent permitted by Cayman Islands law, have the burden of proof to overcome the presumption that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification hereunder in connection with any determination to the contrary made pursuant to Articles 1 or 2 of this Procedural Appendix.
          (b) If the Determining Party of this Procedural Appendix shall have failed to make the requested determination within 45 calendar days pursuant to Article 2(b), a requisite determination of entitlement to indemnification shall be deemed to have been irrevocably made and Indemnitee shall be absolutely entitled to such indemnification, absent (i) fraud in the request for indemnification or (ii) a prohibition on such indemnification under Cayman Islands law; , , that such 45-day period may be extended for a reasonable period of time, not to exceed an additional 45 days, if the Determining Party shall in good faith require such additional time to obtain or evaluate documentation and/or information relating to such determination and shall have provided written notice to Indemnitee within the initial 45-day period of such need for an extension of time.
provided
however
          (c) The termination of any Indemnifiable Proceeding described in Sections 3 or 4 of this Agreement by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not in and of itself: (i) create a presumption that Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of Parent, or any other entity served by Indemnitee at the request of Parent, or a relevant employee benefit plan (as the case may be), or, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, that Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful; or (ii) otherwise adversely affect the rights of Indemnitee to indemnification by the Company except as otherwise provided herein.
nolo contendere
          Article 5. . In the event that a determination is made that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification by the
Effect of Determination Whether to Indemnify or to Advance Expenses
Company hereunder or if payment has not been timely made following a determination of entitlement to indemnification pursuant to Articles 1, 2 or 4 of this Procedural Appendix, or if Expenses are not paid pursuant to Article 1 or 3 of this Procedural Appendix, Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek final adjudication in a court of competent jurisdiction of entitlement to such indemnification or payment of Expenses. The determination in any such judicial Proceeding shall be made and Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of a determination (if so made) pursuant to Articles 1, 2 or 4 of this Procedural Appendix that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification. The Company shall not oppose Indemnitee's right to seek any such adjudication or any other claim. If a determination is made or deemed to have been made pursuant to the terms of Articles 1, 2 or 4 of this Procedural Appendix that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall be bound by such determination and shall be precluded from asserting that such determination has not been made or that the procedure by which such determination was made is not valid, binding and enforceable. The Company further agrees to stipulate in any such court that the Company is bound by all the provisions of this Agreement and is precluded from making any assertions to the contrary. If such court shall determine that Indemnitee is entitled to any indemnification or payment of Expenses hereunder, the Company shall also pay all Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with such adjudication (including any appellate Proceedings).
de novo
          Article 6. . Promptly after receipt by Indemnitee of notice of any Indemnifiable Proceeding, Indemnitee shall, if a claim in respect of such Proceeding is to be made against the Company under this Agreement, notify the Company and Parent in writing of the commencement of such Indemnifiable Proceeding; but the omission to so notify the Company and Parent shall not relieve the Company from any liability that it may have to Indemnitee. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, with respect to any such Proceeding of which Indemnitee notifies the Company and Parent, the Company and Parent shall be entitled to participate therein at their own expense.
Notification and Defense of Claim
          Article 7. . If, at the time of the receipt of a notice of a Indemnifiable Proceeding pursuant to Articles 1, 2 or 3 of this Procedural Appendix, Parent or the Company has directors' and officers' liability insurance in effect, Company shall, or, as applicable, shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause Parent to, give prompt notice of the commencement of such Proceeding to the insurers in accordance with the procedures set forth in the respective policies.
Notice to Insurers
          "" means a change in control of Parent occurring after the effective time of the Scheme of Arrangement of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 5.01 of Current Report on Form 8-K (or in response to any similar item on any similar schedule or form) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "") whether or not Parent is then subject to such reporting requirement; , , that, without limitation, a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if after the date of this Agreement (i) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act ) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of Parent representing (or which upon settlement, exercise or conversion pursuant to their terms would represent) 30% or more of the combined voting power of Parent's then-outstanding voting securities without the prior approval of at least two-thirds of the members of the Parent Board in office immediately prior to such person attaining such percentage; (ii) Parent consummates a merger, consolidation, scheme of arrangement, sale of assets or other reorganization as a consequence of which members of the Parent Board in office immediately prior to entry into the agreement providing for such transaction constitute less than a majority of the board of directors or similar governing body of the company that is then the ultimate parent company of the corporate group of which Parent is a part upon completion of such transaction; or (iii) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Parent Board (including for this purpose any new member of the Parent Board whose election or nomination for election by Parent's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Parent Board then still in office who were members of the Parent Board at the beginning of such period and such approval was not in connection with an actual or threatened proxy contest) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Parent Board.
Change in Control
Exchange Act
provided
however
          "" means a director of the Company who is not and was not a party to the Indemnifiable Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is being sought by Indemnitee.
Disinterested Director
          "" means an "officer" (as such term is used under Section 2 of the Companies Act 1963 of the Republic of Ireland) who is an employee of Parent, which, for the avoidance of doubt, shall not be deemed to include auditors, liquidators, or other advisors of Parent.
Employee Officer
          "" includes expenses actually and reasonably incurred in connection with the defense or settlement of any Proceeding, and appeals, attorneys' and other advisors' fees and expenses (including retainers and disbursements and advances thereon), witness fees and expenses, expenses relating to any bond, and any expenses relating to establishing a right to indemnification or advancement hereunder, but shall not include the amount of judgments, penalties, fines or amounts paid in settlement.
Expenses
          "" means any Proceeding of the type described in Sections 3, 4 or 8 of this Agreement, or Article 5 of the Procedural Appendix and any Proceeding approved by the Parent Board for such purpose, as contemplated by Section 10(c) of this Agreement.
Indemnifiable Proceeding
          "" means a law firm or a member of a law firm that at the relevant time is not, and for the prior five years has not been, retained to represent: (i) the Company, Parent or Indemnitee (or their respective affiliates) in any matter material to any such party, or (ii) any other party to the Indemnifiable Proceeding (or their respective affiliates) giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing the Company, Parent or Indemnitee in a Proceeding to determine Indemnitee's right to indemnification under this Agreement.
Independent Counsel
          "" includes any actual, threatened, pending or completed investigation, action, suit or other proceeding, whether of a civil, criminal, administrative, arbitral, investigative, legislative or other nature.
Proceeding

Exhibit 10.2
          This DEED POLL INDEMNITY (this "") is dated July 1, 2010 and made by XL Capital Ltd, a Cayman Islands exempted company (the ""), acting unilaterally in respect of each individual who has not entered into a separate indemnification agreement with the Indemnitor but is serving as an officer, director, employee, or other executive of XL Group plc, an Irish public limited company ("") or is serving at the request of Parent as an officer, director, employee, or other executive of any other entity (including another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or employee benefit plan) (such individual, an ""). Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this Deed Poll shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Section 11.
Deed Poll
Indemnitor
Parent
Indemnitee
          NOW, THEREFORE, the Indemnitor hereby declares, undertakes and agrees as follows:
          2. .
Indemnification for Proceedings Other than Proceedings by or in the Right of Parent
          (a) Except as limited by Section 9, each Indemnitee shall be entitled to the indemnification rights provided in this Section 2 if Indemnitee, after the effective date hereof, was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any Proceeding (other than an action by or in the name of Parent, to which Section 1 above shall apply) by reason of the fact that Indemnitee is or was an officer, director, employee, or other executive of Parent, or is or was serving at the request of Parent as an officer, director, employee, or other executive of any other entity (including another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or employee benefit plan); or by reason of anything done or not done (or allegedly done or not done) by Indemnitee in any such capacity, whether or not Indemnitee is actually serving in such capacity at the time any liability or Expense is incurred for which indemnification or advancement is sought under this Deed Poll.
Eligibility.
          (b) Except as limited by Section 9, pursuant to this Section 2(b), Indemnitee shall be indemnified to the fullest extent permitted under Cayman Islands law against all judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement and Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with such Proceeding referred to in Section 2(a) above if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of Parent, or such other entity (including another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or employee benefit plan) served by Indemnitee at the request of Parent and, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful.
Indemnity.
          3. . Notwithstanding the limitations of Sections 1 and 2 above, to the fullest extent permitted by Cayman Islands law and to the extent that Indemnitee has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in whole or in part, in defense of any Indemnifiable Proceeding or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, or if it is determined in a final and non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction that Indemnitee is otherwise entitled to be indemnified against Expenses, the Indemnitor shall indemnify Indemnitee against all Expenses incurred in connection with such Indemnifiable Proceeding.
Indemnification for Expenses of Successful Party
          4. . Except as limited by Section 9, if Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Deed Poll to indemnification by the Indemnitor for some or a portion of the judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement or Expenses incurred in connection with any Indemnifiable Proceeding, but not, however, for all of the total amount thereof, the Indemnitor shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion of such judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement and Expenses incurred to which Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification.
Partial Indemnification
          5. . Except as limited by Section 9, to the fullest extent permitted under Cayman Islands law, all Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in defending against an Indemnifiable Proceeding under Section 1 or 2 in advance of the final disposition of such Indemnifiable Proceeding shall be paid by the Indemnitor at the request of Indemnitee. Pursuant to Section 12, Indemnitee must submit to the Secretary of the Indemnitor a written request (i) reasonably evidencing the Expenses incurred by Indemnitee and (ii) including or accompanied by an undertaking, by or on behalf of Indemnitee, to reimburse such amounts to the Indemnitor if it is finally determined in a final and non-appealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction that
Advancement of Expenses
Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified against such Expenses by the Indemnitor as provided by this Deed Poll or otherwise. Indemnitee's undertaking to reimburse any such amounts shall not be required to be secured and shall be interest free. Each payment of Expenses by the Indemnitor shall be made within 10 calendar days after the receipt by the Indemnitor of a valid written request for advancement of Expenses.
          6. .
Determination Whether to Indemnify
          (a) To receive indemnification under this Deed Poll, Indemnitee must submit a written request to the Indemnitor to provide such indemnification. Such request shall include documentation or information reasonably available to Indemnitee that provides a reasonably detailed description of the facts and circumstances of the request for indemnification. Upon such request, the entitlement of Indemnitee to indemnification shall be determined by one of the following not later than 45 calendar days after receipt by the Indemnitor of a written request for indemnification or, if Independent Counsel makes the determination of entitlement to indemnification under this Section 6(a), within 45 calendar days of agreement on the identity of such Independent Counsel:
The decision as to which of clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) shall apply to the determination in any particular case shall be made upon the approval of a majority of the Disinterested Directors of the Indemnitor Board (even if less than a quorum), or by the sole Disinterested Director if there is then only one.
          (b) Any Independent Counsel selected for purposes of Section 6(a) shall be selected by the Indemnitor Board and approved by Indemnitee (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed). Upon failure of the Indemnitor Board to so select such Independent Counsel or upon failure of Indemnitee to so approve, such Independent Counsel shall be selected upon application to a court of competent jurisdiction.
          (c) If the person or persons or entity making such determination shall determine that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification as to part (but not all) of the application for indemnification, such person shall reasonably allocate such partial indemnification among the claims, issues or matters at issue at the time of the determination.
          7. . If a claim for indemnification or advancement of expenses hereunder is not paid in full by the Indemnitor within 45 days after a written claim has been received by the Indemnitor (or, if Independent Counsel makes the determination of entitlement to indemnification under Section 6(a), within 45 calendar days of agreement on the identity of such Independent Counsel), Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek final adjudication in a court of competent jurisdiction of entitlement to such indemnification or payment of Expenses. The determination in any such judicial Proceeding shall be made and Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of a determination (if so made) that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification. The Indemnitor shall not oppose Indemnitee's right to seek any such adjudication or any other claim. If a determination is made or deemed to have been made that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Indemnitor shall be bound by such determination and shall be precluded from asserting that such determination has not been made or that the procedure by which such determination was made is not valid, binding and enforceable. The Indemnitor further agrees to stipulate in any such court that the Indemnitor is bound by all the provisions of this Deed Poll and is precluded from making any assertions to the contrary. If such court shall determine that Indemnitee is entitled to any indemnification or payment of Expenses hereunder, the Indemnitor shall also pay all Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with such adjudication (including any appellate Proceedings).
Effect of Determination Whether to Indemnify or to Advance Expenses
de novo
          8. .
Duration
          (a) This Deed Poll shall take effect on and be deemed to be delivered as a deed at the effective time of the scheme of arrangement under Cayman Islands law (the "") pursuant to which the ordinary shareholders of the Indemnitor become ordinary shareholders of Parent and the Indemnitor becomes a subsidiary of Parent.
Scheme of Arrangement
          (b) This Deed Poll shall continue and remain in force and effect until and shall expire on the earlier of the date on which the Indemnitor shall have (i) performed all its obligations and discharged its liabilities hereunder or (ii) terminated this Deed Poll.
          9. .
Rights to Indemnification
          (a) Indemnification and advancement of Expenses provided by this Deed Poll shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which Indemnitee may now or in the future be entitled, including under any other agreement or provision of the memorandum of association and articles of association of Parent (the ""), the memorandum of association and articles of association of the Indemnitor (the ""), or the governing documents of any other entity served by Indemnitee at the request of Parent. Nothing in this Deed Poll shall be deemed to limit or impair in any way any right of Indemnitee with respect to indemnification, advancement of expenses or exculpation under the Indemnitor Governing Documents as in effect prior to effectiveness the Scheme of Arrangement.
Parent Governing Documents
Indemnitor Governing Documents
          (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Deed Poll, no indemnification or advancement of Expenses shall be paid hereunder to Indemnitee by the Indemnitor for which such indemnification or advancement of Expenses, as applicable, is actually made or then due to Indemnitee (i) under an insurance policy; (ii) under a valid and enforceable provision of the Parent Governing Documents, the Indemnitor Governing Documents or the
governing documents of any other entity served by Indemnitee at the request of Parent; (iii) pursuant to an agreement of Parent, to the extent permitted by law, or the Indemnitor or any other entity served by Indemnitee at the request of Parent; or (iv) where such payment is actually made to Indemnitee by Parent in its discretion to the extent permitted by law, except, in each case, in respect of any amounts indemnifiable hereunder exceeding the payment or payments made under clauses (i) through (iv) of this paragraph.
          (c) Except with respect to an Indemnifiable Proceeding pursuant to Section 7 above, no indemnification or advancement of Expenses shall be paid to Indemnitee by the Indemnitor in connection with a Proceeding, or part thereof (including claims and counterclaims) initiated by Indemnitee, unless such Proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by Indemnitee was authorized by the Parent Board.
          10. .
Nature of Indemnity
          (a) The Indemnitor assumes the obligations hereunder in consideration of each Indemnitee's service as an officer, director, employee or other executive of Parent or Indemnitee's service at the request of Parent as officer, director, employee or other executive of any other entity. An Indemnitee shall be deemed to be "serving at the request of Parent" or to have "served at the request of Parent" (or any similar construction of similar meaning) to the extent such Indemnitee is serving or has served as an officer, director, employee or executive of any subsidiary of Parent, and Indemnitee shall be deemed to be so serving or have so served without any express (whether written or otherwise) evidence of such request, unless clear evidence to the contrary exists and is provided by Parent.
          (b) This Deed Poll is made for the benefit of Indemnitees severally, and the rights granted under this Deed Poll shall be a contract right and as such shall run for the benefit of each Indemnitee.
          11. .
Certain Definitions
          (a) "" means a director of the Indemnitor who is not and was not a party to the Indemnifiable Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is being sought by Indemnitee.
Disinterested Director
          (b) "" includes expenses actually and reasonably incurred in connection with the defense or settlement of any Proceeding, and appeals, attorneys' and other advisors' fees and expenses (including retainers and disbursements and advances thereon), witness fees and expenses, expenses relating to any bond, and any expenses relating to establishing a right to indemnification or advancement hereunder, but shall not include the amount of judgments, penalties, fines or amounts paid in settlement.
Expenses
          (c) "" means any Proceeding of the type described in Sections 1, 2 or 7.
Indemnifiable Proceeding
          (d) "" means a law firm or a member of a law firm that is experienced in matters of corporation law and at the relevant time is not, and for the prior five years has not been, retained to represent: (i) the Indemnitor, Parent or Indemnitee (or their respective affiliates) in any matter material to any such party, or (ii) any other party to the Indemnifiable Proceeding (or their
Independent Counsel
respective affiliates) giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing the Indemnitor, Parent or Indemnitee in an action to determine Indemnitee's right to indemnification under this Deed Poll.
          (e) "" includes any actual, threatened, pending or completed investigation, action, suit or other proceeding, whether of a civil, criminal, administrative, arbitral, investigative, legislative or other nature.
Proceeding
          12. . All notices, requests, demands and other communications under this Deed Poll shall be in writing and shall be deemed duly given (i) if delivered by hand and receipted for by the party addressee, on the date of such receipt; (ii) if mailed by domestic certified or registered mail with postage prepaid, on the third business day after the date postmarked; or (iii) if sent by facsimile transmission and fax confirmation is received, on the next business day following the date on which such facsimile transmission was sent, in each case, to the following address:
Notices
          The Indemnitor waives notice of acceptance of this Deed Poll by any Indemnitee.
          13. .
Assignment
          (a) No Indemnitee may assign its rights, interests or obligations under this Deed Poll to any other person (except by operation of law) without the prior written consent of the Indemnitor.
          (b) The obligations under this Deed Poll may, at the option of the Indemnitor, be assigned or transferred to, or assumed by, a successor company of the Indemnitor (whether by merger, consolidation, scheme of arrangement or amalgamation or otherwise), a parent company of the Indemnitor or a company to which all or substantially all of the assets and business of the Indemnitor are transferred.
          14. . The Indemnitor may amend or terminate this Deed Poll at any time provided that any amendment or termination of this Deed Poll shall be prospective only and shall not limit the rights of any Indemnitee or the obligations of the Indemnitor with respect to any Indemnifiable Proceeding arising from or related to any action indemnified pursuant to Section 1 or Section 2 of this Deed Poll taken by an Indemnitee prior to such amendment or termination.
Amendment or Termination
          15. . This Deed Poll shall be interpreted and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Cayman Islands.
Governing Law
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Deed Poll has been duly executed by the Indemnitor as a deed by the Indemnitor and shall take effect on the day and year first above written.

Press Release
XL GROUP PLC COMPLETES REDOMESTICATION TO IRELAND AND NAME CHANGE
Hamilton, Bermuda  July 1, 2010  XL Group plc ("XL" or "the Company") (NYSE:XL) announced today that it has completed its previously announced redomestication to change the parent holding company's place of incorporation to Ireland from the Cayman Islands. In addition, as previously announced, the name of the holding company is "XL Group plc" as of July 1.
XL will continue to be registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and will be subject to SEC reporting requirements. Shares of XL will trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "XL", the same symbol under which the shares of XL Capital Ltd, the prior parent company of the XL group, previously traded.
XL Group plc, through its subsidiaries, is a global insurance and reinsurance company providing property, casualty, and specialty products to industrial, commercial, and professional firms, insurance companies and other enterprises on a worldwide basis. Its principal executive offices are located at No. 1 Hatch Street Upper, 4 Floor, Dublin 2, Ireland. More information about XL Group plc is available at
th
www.xlgroup.com.


