FILE:XL/XL-8K-20110614101726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): June 13, 2011
XL GROUP
Public Limited Company
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
+353 (1) 405-2033
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
XL Group plc issued a press release on June 13, 2011. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 14, 2011
XL Group plc
(Registrant)
 

 
 
 
 
XL Group plc
XL House One Bermudiana Road
Hamilton HM 08 Bermuda Phone (441) 292-8515
Fax (441) 292-5280
 
 
 
Press Release
 
 
 
 
 
XL GROUP PLC ANNOUNCES PRELIMINARY LOSS ESTIMATES FOR SEVERE WEATHER OCCURRENCES IN THE UNITED STATES
 
Hamilton, Bermuda  June 13, 2011  XL Group plc (XL or the Company) (NYSE: XL) today announced preliminary net loss estimates related to the severe weather occurrences, including devastating tornado activity, which affected the Midwest and Southeast United States over the periods April 22  28 and May 20  23, 2011 (the Storms).
 
The Companys preliminary loss estimates related to the Storms, pretax and net of reinsurance and reinstatement premiums, range from approximately $50 million to $75 million, with the majority attributable to XLs reinsurance segment.
 
The Companys estimates are based on its review of individual treaties and policies expected to be impacted along with available client data. The Companys loss estimates involve the exercise of considerable judgment and are accordingly subject to revision as additional information becomes available. Actual losses may differ materially from these preliminary estimates.
 
About XL
 
XL was formed in 1986 in response to the unmet risk management needs of 68 of the world's largest companies. This year, as XL celebrates its 25 anniversary, it remains the company clients look to for innovative insurance and reinsurance solutions for their most complex risks. XL Group plc, through its subsidiaries, is a global insurance and reinsurance company providing property, casualty, and specialty
th
 
 
1
 
 
products to industrial, commercial, and professional firms, insurance companies and other enterprises on a worldwide basis. Its principal offices are located at No. 1 Hatch Street Upper, 4th Floor, Dublin 2, Ireland. More information about XL Group plc is available at www.xlgroup.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements about the estimated impact of the severe weather occurrences, including devastating tornado activity, which affected the Midwest and Southeast United States over the periods April 22  28 and May 20  23, 2011 (the Storms). Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about XL's beliefs, plans or expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current plans, estimates, and expectations, all of which involve risk and uncertainty. Actual results may differ materially from those included in such forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them. A non-exclusive list of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements include the preliminary nature of reports and estimates of loss related to the Storms and the other factors set forth in XL's reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. XL undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
2


