FILE:XL/XL-8K-20121212162105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):                 December 12, 2012
XL GROUP
Public Limited Company
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
+353 (1) 405-2033
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01. Other Events.
XL Group plc issued a press release on December 12, 2012. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 12, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Press Release
 
 
XL GROUP PLC ANNOUNCES ITS PRELIMINARY LOSS ESTIMATE FOR
STORM Sandy
 
 
Dublin, Ireland  December 12, 2012  XL Group plc (XL or the Company) (NYSE: XL) today announced its preliminary net loss estimate related to Storm Sandy of $350 million, pretax and net of reinsurance and reinstatement premiums. Approximately 60% of the Companys estimated loss relates to the Reinsurance segment.
 
Within the Reinsurance segment, the loss estimate is comprised of approximately 20% for Marine and 80% for Property Reinsurance, including catastrophe treaty, per risk treaty and facultative exposures. Within the Insurance segment, the loss estimate is comprised of approximately 15% for Specialty lines, including Marine, Fine Art and Specie, and 85% for Property. This loss estimate is in line with the Companys expectations given the potential size of this event to the insurance industry as commented on by the Company during its third quarter earnings call on November 5, 2012.
 
The Companys estimate is based on its review of individual treaties and policies expected to be impacted, along with available client data. This preliminary estimate involves the exercise of considerable judgment. Given that the facts are still developing, as well as the complexities of the nature of the event, there is considerable uncertainty associated with the loss estimate of the event and such estimate is accordingly subject to revision as additional information becomes available. Actual losses may differ materially from this preliminary estimate.
About XL Group plc
XL Group plc, through its subsidiaries, is a global insurance and reinsurance company providing property, casualty and specialty products to industrial, commercial and professional firms, insurance companies and other enterprises throughout the world. XL is the company clients look to for answers to their most complex risks and to help move their world forward. Its principal offices are located at No.1 Hatch Street Upper, 4 Floor, Dublin2, Ireland. To learn more, visit
th
www.xlgroup.com
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements about the estimated impact of Storm Sandy. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about XL's beliefs, plans or expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current plans, estimates and expectations, all of which involve risk and uncertainty. Actual results may differ materially from those included in such forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them. A non-exclusive list of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements include the preliminary nature of reports and the loss estimate related to Storm Sandy and the other factors set forth in XL's reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. XL undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
 
 
# # # # # # #
 


