FILE:XL/XL-8K-20120430163650.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) On April 26, 2012, the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of XL Group plc (the "Company") adopted the XL Group plc Reinsurance Supplemental Long Term Cash Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). Mr. James Veghte, Executive Vice President, Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations, is a participant in the Plan.
Under the Plan, Mr. Veghte is eligible to receive payment of a cash award based on (i) the compound annual growth rate in net written premium for the Company's reinsurance operations, relative to an industry peer group, for the four-year performance period beginning January 1, 2012, and (ii) combined ratio for the Company's reinsurance operations for the four accident years in the performance period.
Payment of the amount earned by Mr. Veghte, if any, under the Plan is to be made in cash installments over the three-year period following the performance period and is subject to Mr. Veghte's continued employment through February 15, 2016. Special provisions apply in the event of Mr. Veghte's death, disability or termination by the Company not for cause, as set forth in the Plan.
The Plan is attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
At the Annual General Meeting of holders of the Company's ordinary shares (the "Shareholders") held on April 27, 2012, the Shareholders approved the following:
           a. The election of four Class II Directors to hold office until 2015:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 10.1
                    The purpose of the Reinsurance Supplemental Long Term Cash Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is to advance the interests of XL Group plc and its shareholders by creating a long-term incentive compensation vehicle covering certain employees in the reinsurance business of XL Group plc and the Subsidiaries (the "Reinsurance Segment"). The Plan is designed to motivate exceptional profitable revenue growth and retain key talent through the four-year Performance Period (defined below), while maintaining controls designed to ensure such growth is prudent and to mitigate any risks from Plan operation that could have a material adverse affect on the Company. The Plan is designed to pay out in cash over three years beginning after the end of the Performance Period. There are no additional deferral provisions with respect to any amounts potentially payable under the Plan.
                    "Award Amount" means the amount of a Participant's award under the Plan, determined in accordance with Section 5 below and subject to the other Plan terms set forth herein.
                    "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
                    "Cause" means (i) Participant's conviction of a felony involving moral turpitude, dishonesty or laws to which the Company or the Subsidiaries are subject in connection with the conduct of its or their business; (ii) Participant's willful misconduct that is materially injurious to the financial condition of the Company or a Subsidiary; (iii) the Participant's willful refusal to obey any lawful policy or requirement duly adopted by the Company or a Subsidiary; (iv) Participant's willful violation of the policies or code of conduct of the Company or a Subsidiary; (v) Participant's willful violation of the underwriting guidelines applicable to the Participant or the underwriting authority of the Participant; or (vi) as defined in an employment agreement between the Participant, the Company and/or Subsidiary.
                    "Change in Control" means any person, meaning an individual, a partnership, or other group or association as defined in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (other than a group of which the Company is a member or which has been organized by the Company for the purpose of making such acquisition), acquires, directly or indirectly, 40 percent or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding securities of the Company having a right to vote in the election of directors, including but not limited to a transaction pursuant to (i) a compromise or arrangement sanctioned by the Court under section 201 of the Companies Act 1963 of the Republic of Ireland or (ii) section 204 of the Companies Act 1963 of the Republic of Ireland. Ownership of 40 percent or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding securities of the Company by any person controlled directly or indirectly by the Company shall not be deemed a Change of Control of the Company; , that, as applied to any Award Amount that
provided, however
constitutes deferred compensation for purposes of Section 409A of the Code, a transaction will constitute a Change in Control only if it also qualifies as a "change in control event" (as defined in Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)).
                    "Code" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
                    "Combined Ratio" means the combined ratio ("CR") for the Performance Period, determined as of the end of the Performance Period and based on a weighted average of the CRs for each accident year ("AY") in the Performance Period. Weightings shall be based on the AY net earned premiums for the Reinsurance Segment, as reported on the Company's financial statements. Each AY CR shall be determined as follows: A calendar year ("CY") CR shall be calculated annually following the close of each CY. The CY CR shall be adjusted to an AY basis by removing any prior year reserve development ("PYD") from the CY CR to arrive at a CR for the most recent AY. The PYD, if any, removed from the most recent CY CR will be added to the appropriate prior AYs such that the resulting restated AY CRs reflect the cumulative PYD from all prior CYs.   AY CRs will be restated annually to reflect the PYD experienced in subsequent CYs.
                    "Committee" means the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board, or any successor Committee approved by the Board.
                     "Company" means XL Group plc and any successor company.
                    "Company CAGR" means the compound annual growth rate of net written premium for the Reinsurance Segment, as reported on the Company's financial statements, as measured from the beginning of the Performance Period (using December 31, 2011 data) to the end of the Performance Period.
                    "Disability" means permanent and total disability as determined under the Subsidiary long-term disability plan covering the Participant.
                    "Effective Date" means January 1, 2012.
                    "First Payment" shall be as defined in Section 5.D.
                    "Head of Reinsurance" means the Company's Executive Vice President, Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations on the Effective Date.
                    "Participant" shall be as defined in Section 3.
                    "Peer Group" means Munich Re, Swiss Re, Everest Re, Partner Re, Hannover Re and Alleghany Corporation; , that (i) Alleghany Corporation shall be included in the Peer Group only if net written premium is publicly reported solely for the reinsurance segment formerly operated by Transatlantic Re for periods beginning January 1, 2012 and continuing during the Performance Period, and (ii) if any such company is acquired, becomes subject to a proceeding under applicable bankruptcy laws (or a similar proceeding) or otherwise ceases to exist as a separate public company during a year included in the Performance Period, such company will continue to be included in the Peer Group with modifications to the calculation as described in the definition of "Peer Group CAGR" below.
provided however
                    "Peer Group CAGR" means the compound annual growth rate in annual net written premium (or if a Peer Group company does not publicly report net written premium, then such company's annual net earned premium shall instead be used) for the reinsurance operations of the companies in the Peer Group, as reported on such companies' financial statements, as measured from the beginning of the Performance Period (January 1, 2012) to the end of the Performance Period (December 31, 2015). Peer Group CAGR shall be calculated using reported premium for the Peer Group companies on a consolidated basis (i.e., based on the sum of the Peer Group companies' net written premiums, or net earned premiums in cases where net earned premiums are not available); if a company ceases to be a member of the Peer Group during the Performance Period, such company's CAGR for the Performance Period will be calculated separately based on the trailing twelve-month premium data as of the last publicly reported period. Peer Group CAGR will then be the weighted average of the remaining consolidated Peer Group's compound annual growth rate for the entire Performance Period, and the truncated compound annual growth rate for the company that left the Peer Group. Weighting will be based on net written (or net earned) premium as of January 1, 2012.
provided that
                     "Performance Period" means the period beginning on January 1, 2012 and ending on December 31, 2015.
                    "Plan" shall be as defined in Section 1.
                    "Pool" means the total amount payable under the Plan which shall be based on payout amounts associated with results for Relative CAGR and Combined Ratio, as provided in Appendix A hereto.
                    "Pool Percentage" means a Participant's percentage of the Pool, as determined by the Committee; the Head of Reinsurance shall have a Pool Percentage of 35%.
provided that
                    "Reinsurance Segment" shall be as defined in Section 1.
                    "Relative CAGR" means Company CAGR compared to Peer Group CAGR as shown by the relationship: (1.0 + Company CAGR)/(1.0 + Peer Group CAGR).
                    "Second Payment" shall be as defined in Section 5.D.
                    "Subsidiary" means any corporation at least fifty percent (50%) percent of the outstanding voting stock of which is owned by the Company.
                    "Third Payment" shall be as defined in Section 5.D.
                    The Head of Reinsurance of the Company and other employees of the Company's Reinsurance division selected by the Committee are eligible to participate in the Plan. Each of the Head of Reinsurance and the eligible employees selected by the Committee (including any additional employees selected by the Committee) shall become a Participant. The Committee shall have the authority to remove a current Participant, or to replace a current Participant with a new Participant.
                    A. . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have full discretionary power, consistent with the Management Development and Compensation Committee Charter, to:
Committee
                    B. . The Company's Chief Enterprise Risk Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Actuary will review the business writings as often as necessary but no less frequently than annually to ensure that the Plan is operating in a manner consistent with the long-term health of the Reinsurance Segment and the overall Company. They shall consider any factors that are, in their judgment, relevant, including but not limited to:
Operational Review
The Company's Chief Enterprise Risk Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Actuary shall report their findings to the Committee on a current basis, but no less frequently than annually, during the Performance Period.
                    C. . The Committee shall have full discretion to adjust the Pool amount or any individual Award Amount as determined pursuant to Appendix A, including, but not limited to, as a response to the following situations:
Adjustments
                    D. . The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, and other persons. The Board, Committee, the Company, and its officers shall be entitled to rely upon the advice or opinion of such persons.
Third-party Advisors
                    E. . All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee or the Board shall be final and binding upon the Participants, the Company, and all other interested persons. No member of the Committee or the Board shall be personally liable for any action, determination, or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan. All members of the Committee and the Board shall be protected and indemnified by the Company, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law and the Company's by-laws, in respect of any such action, determination, or interpretation of the Plan.
Binding Effect of Committee Actions
                    F. . The Committee shall have the discretion to modify or amend the Plan, or adopt additional terms and or conditions, as may be deemed necessary or advisable in order to comply with the local laws and regulations of any jurisdiction.
Foreign Jurisdictions
                    A. . Each Participant's Award Amount will be equal to the Participant's Pool Percentage multiplied by the Pool amount, determined as set forth in Appendix A, and subject to any adjustments pursuant to Section 4.C. of the Plan. Unless otherwise specifically determined by the Committee, any percentage of the Pool that is forfeited due to termination of employment of a Participant or otherwise shall not be available for distribution to other Participants.
Award Amount
                    B. . All payments under this Plan will be made in cash, and there will be no right of further deferral with respect to any payments under the Plan.
Cash Payments and No Additional Deferral
                    C. . So long as the Participant remains continuously employed by the Company or a Subsidiary (and has not given notice of termination) during the entire Performance Period or, in the case of the Head of Reinsurance, through February 15, 2016, the Participant's Award Amount shall be paid as follows: (i) the First Payment (as defined below) shall be paid to the Participant on or after January 1, 2016 (February 15, 2016, in the case of the Head of Reinsurance) and on or prior to March 15, 2016, (ii)  the Second Payment (as defined below) shall be paid to the Participant on or after January 1, 2017 and on or prior to March 15, 2017, and (iii) the
Payment of Award Amounts
Third Payment (as defined below) shall be paid to the Participant on or after January 1, 2018 and on or prior to March 15, 2018 or, in the case of the Head of Reinsurance, on or after October 1, 2017 and on or prior to December 31, 2017.
                    D. . The "First Payment" shall be equal to 50% of the product of the Pool amount and the Participant's Pool Percentage. The "Second Payment" and the "Third Payment" shall be adjusted to take into account reserve development subsequent to the Performance Period on business written during the Performance Period, and calculated as follows:
Calculation of Award Amounts
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee shall have full discretion to adjust the Pool amount or any individual Award Amount pursuant to Section 4.C. above.
                    E. For the avoidance of doubt, except as otherwise set forth in Section 6 below, in order to receive any payment under this Plan the Participant must remain continuously employed by the Company or a Subsidiary through and not have given notice of termination of employment prior to the end of the Performance Period (December 31, 2015) or, in the case of the Head of Reinsurance, February 15, 2016.
                    A. . In the event of a Participant's termination of employment due to his or her death or Disability during the Performance Period or, in the case of the Head of Reinsurance, prior to February 15, 2016, the Participant (or his/her estate) shall receive an Award Amount, prorated based on the portion of the Performance Period completed prior to the date of death or Disability, as approved by the Committee. Such Award Amount shall be paid at the time provided in Section 5.C. above and subject to the same adjustments pursuant to Sections 4 and 5, if applicable, as the payments to the other Participants. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of termination of employment of the Head of Reinsurance during the Performance Period, the following provisions shall apply:
Death or Disability
                    B. . In the event the Participant's employment is terminated by the Company not for Cause (including, in the case of a Participant who has an employment agreement with the Company, a termination by the Participant that is deemed to be a termination by the Company without Cause under the provisions of the employment agreement or a termination by the Participant for Good Reason under the employment agreement) during the Performance Period or, in the case of the Head of Reinsurance, prior to February 15, 2016, the Participant shall receive an Award Amount, prorated based on the portion of the Performance Period completed prior to the date of termination, as approved by the Committee. Such Award Amount shall be paid at the same time and subject to the same adjustments pursuant to Sections 4 and 5, if applicable, as the payments to the other Participants. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of termination of employment of the Head of Reinsurance during the Performance Period, the provisions of clauses (i) and (ii) of Section 6.A. of the Plan shall apply.
Termination by the Company Without Cause
                    C. . In the event of a Participant's voluntary termination of employment or the Participant's giving of notice of termination of employment during the Performance Period or, in the case of the Head of Reinsurance, prior to February 15, 2016 (not including, in the case of a Participant who has an employment agreement with the Company, a termination by the Participant that is deemed to be a termination by the Company without Cause under the provisions of the employment agreement or a termination by the Participant for Good Reason under the employment agreement), the Participant shall not be entitled to any further payment under the Plan and shall have no rights or interests in the Plan.
Voluntary Termination of Employment by Participant
                    D. . In the event the Participant's employment is terminated by the Company for Cause, the Participant shall not be entitled to any further payment under the Plan and shall have no rights or interests in the Plan.
Termination by the Company for Cause
                    A. . No Participant or other person shall have any claim or right to be retained in the employment of the Company or a Subsidiary by reason of the Plan or to any award made as part of the Plan nor will the Plan be construed as having created an employment contract for any term.
No Right to Employment or Participation
                    B. . An award made under this Plan shall not be considered "compensation" under any qualified or non-qualified, registered or non-registered employee benefit plan, program or arrangement of the Company and shall not have any effect on the level of benefits provided to or received by a Participant or his/her estate or designated beneficiary, as part of any employee benefit plan of the Company or the Subsidiaries.
Not Compensation Under Other Plans
                    C. . The expenses of the Plan and its administration shall be borne by the Company.
Plan Expenses
                    D. . The Plan shall be unfunded and the Company shall not be required to establish any special or separate fund or to make any other segregation of assets to assure the payment of any award made under the Plan.
Plan Not Funded
                    E. . This Plan is not intended to be the sole and exclusive long term incentive program of the Company in which Participants may be entitled to participate in the ordinary course.
Other Long-Term Incentive Arrangements
                    F. . The appropriate officers of the Company shall cause to be filed any reports, returns, or other information regarding the Plan, as may be required by any applicable statute, rule, or regulation.
Reports
                    G. . The Company may deduct from any payment to a Participant under this Plan any Federal, state, or local withholding or other tax or charge which the Company is then required to deduct under applicable law with respect thereto.
Withholding
                    H. . No award or rights under this Plan may be transferred or assigned by a Participant other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
No Transfers
                    I. . The validity, construction, and effect of the Plan, and any actions relating to the Plan, shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the state of New York and applicable federal law, without regard to the conflict of laws provisions of any state or country.
Governing Law
                    J. . It is intended that the Plan will comply with Section 409A of the Code and any regulations and guidelines issued thereunder, and the Plan shall be interpreted on a basis consistent with such intent. The Plan may be amended in any respect deemed necessary (including retroactively) by the Board in order to preserve compliance with Section 409A of the Code. It is intended that amounts payable under this Plan will not be considered to be deferred compensation for purposes of Section 409A of the Code by virtue of Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(b)(4). However, if any amount payable hereunder is considered to be deferred compensation for such purposes, notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Plan, if a Participant is deemed on the date of his or her "separation from service" (within the meaning of Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(h)) to be a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(i)), then with regard to any payment that is required to be delayed pursuant to Section 409A(a)(2)(B) of the Code (after taking into account the applicable provisions of Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(b)(4)), the portion, if any, of such payment so required to be delayed shall not be made prior to the earlier of (i) the expiration of the six (6)-month period measured from the date of his "separation from service" or (ii) the date of his or her death (the "Delay Period"). Upon the expiration of the Delay Period, all payments delayed pursuant to this Section 7.J shall be paid to the
Section 409A
Participant in a lump sum. No action or failure to act, pursuant to this Section 7.J shall subject the Company to any claim, liability, or expense, and the Company shall not have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise protect any Participant from the obligation to pay any tax, interest or penalty pursuant to Section 409A or Section 457A of the Code. Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, for purposes of any provision of this Plan providing for the payment of any amounts considered to be deferred compensation for purposes of Section 409A of the Code upon or following a termination of employment, references to the Participant's "termination of employment" (and corollary terms) with the Company shall be construed to refer to the Participant's "separation from service" (within the meaning of Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(h)) with the Company. Whenever payments under this Plan are to be made in installments, each such installment shall be deemed to be a separate payment for purposes of Section 409A.
                    The Board may, from time to time, amend the Plan in any respect, or may discontinue or terminate the Plan at any time; , , that no amendment, discontinuance or termination of the Plan shall, without the consent of the affected Participant, have a material adverse effect on any award made to any Participant under the Plan.
provided
however
                    A. In the event a Change in Control occurs, unless the Company commits in writing at the time of such Change in Control to each of the Participants that the Plan will be continued in effect after the Change in Control with Award Amounts determined on the basis of the operational results of the Reinsurance Segment of the Company and its Subsidiaries, on a stand-alone basis, for the full duration of the Plan, the Performance Period shall terminate and the Committee shall determine Relative CAGR and Combined Ratio as of the latest practical date occurring prior to the Change in Control. Each Participant's Award Amount shall be calculated based on such Relative CAGR and Combined Ratio, subject to adjustment pursuant to Sections 4 and 5, if applicable, and shall be paid to the Participant without proration within 60 days after such Change in Control.
                    B. In the event a Change in Control occurs and the Company makes the commitment to the Participants set forth in Section 9.A above, the terms of the Plan shall continue in effect, except that any amount payable under Section 6.B. due to an applicable termination of employment occurring after the Change in Control shall not be reduced to a prorated amount.
Relative CAGR and CR between the amounts set forth above will result in interpolated Award Amounts, as determined by the Committee.


