FILE:XL/XL-8K-20121105162309.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          The following information is being furnished under Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition." This information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, or incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
          On November 5, 2012, XL Group plc issued the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein announcing the results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2012.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) Ms. Valerie Gooding has resigned from the Company's Board of Directors, effective as of November 2, 2012. Ms. Gooding has informed the Company that her decision relates to her other responsibilities, where as a result of events at other companies of which she is a director or chairman, there has been a substantial increase in time commitments that were not foreseen at the time she accepted the Board position at the Company. She has informed the Company that she is unable to devote sufficient time to the Company for the foreseeable future and that her resignation is not due to any disagreement with the Company.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed herewith:
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 5, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
Press Release
Dublin, Ireland  November 5, 2012
 XL Group plc ("XL" or the "Company") (NYSE: XL) today reported its third quarter 2012 results.
Commenting on the Company's performance, Chief Executive Officer Mike McGavick said:
"XL's strong third quarter results are another step in the right direction. Our P&C combined ratio of 92.2 percent was more than nine points better than the same period last year. This resulted from lower underlying loss ratios, in part due to a lower number of large losses; fewer catastrophes; and, to a lesser extent, positive prior year development. We are resolved to maintain this progress."
Mr. McGavick also added: "Our thoughts are with those still dealing with the effects of Sandy. As we all witnessed, this was simply a massive event by any measure. We will continue to work with our clients, brokers and partners to provide any assistance we can."
Highlights - Three and Nine Months Ended September 30
P&C Operations - Three and Nine Months Ended September 30
Further details of the results for the quarter may be found in the Company's Financial Supplement, which is dated November 5, 2012 and is available from the Investor Relations section of XL's website.
A conference call to discuss the Company's results will be held at 5 p.m. Eastern Time on Monday, November 5, 2012. The conference call can be accessed through a listen-only dial-in number or through a live webcast. To listen to the conference call, please dial (210) 795-0624 or (866) 617-1526: Passcode: "XL GLOBAL". The webcast will be available at www.xlgroup.com and will be archived on XL's website from approximately 9:00 p.m. Eastern Time on November 5, 2012, through midnight Eastern Time on December 5, 2012. A telephone replay of the conference call will also be available beginning at approximately 9:00 p.m. Eastern Time on November 5, 2012, until midnight Eastern Time on December 5, 2012, by dialing (203) 369-1231 or (866) 454-1408.
About XL Group plc
XL Group plc, through its subsidiaries, is a global insurance and reinsurance company providing property, casualty and specialty products to industrial, commercial and professional firms, insurance companies and other enterprises throughout the world. XL is the company clients look to for answers to their most complex risks and to help move their world forward. Its principal offices are located at No.1 Hatch Street Upper, 4th Floor, Dublin 2, Ireland. To learn more, visit www.xlgroup.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about XL's beliefs, plans or expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current plans, estimates and expectations, all of which involve risk and uncertainty. Statements that include the words "expect," "intend," "plan," "believe," "project," "anticipate," "will," "may" or similar statements of a future or forward-looking nature identify forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those included in such forward-looking statements and therefore you should not place undue reliance on them. A non-exclusive list of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements includes (a) changes in the size of XL's claims relating to natural or man-made catastrophe losses due to the preliminary nature of some reports and estimates of loss and damage to date; (b) trends in rates for property and casualty insurance and reinsurance; (c) the timely and full recoverability of reinsurance placed by XL with third parties, or other amounts due to XL; (d) changes in ratings, rating agency policies or practices; (e) changes in the projected amount of ceded reinsurance recoverables; (f) XL's ability to successfully implement its business strategy especially during a "soft" market cycle; (g) greater frequency or severity of claims and loss activity than XL's underwriting, reserving or investment practices anticipate based on historical experience or industry data; (h) changes in general economic conditions, including the effects of inflation and changes in interest rates, credit spreads, foreign currency exchange rates and future volatility in the world's credit, financial and capital markets that adversely affect the performance and valuation of XL's investments or access to such markets; (i) developments, including uncertainties related to: the future of the Euro-zone, the ability of Euro-zone countries to service existing debt obligations and the strength of the Euro as a currency; and to the financial condition of counterparties, reinsurers and other companies that are at risk of bankruptcy; (j) the impact of downgrades of U.S. securities by credit rating agencies or the European sovereign debt crisis, and the resulting effect on the value of securities (x) in our investment portfolio and (y) posted as collateral by and to us; (k) the potential for changes to methodologies, estimations and assumptions that underlie the valuation of XL's financial instruments that could result in changes to investment valuations; (l) changes to XL's assessment as to whether it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell, or has the intent to sell, available-for-sale debt securities before their anticipated recovery; (m) the ability of XL's subsidiaries to pay dividends to XL Group plc and XLIT Ltd.; (n) the potential effect of regulatory developments in the jurisdictions in which XL operates, including those that could impact the financial markets or increase XL's business costs and required capital levels; (o) changes in applicable tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof; and (p) the other factors set forth in XL's reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other documents on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. XL undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
XL intends to use its website as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on the website in the Investor Relations section. Accordingly, investors should monitor such portions of XL's website, in addition to following its press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts.
Note 1: Certain items have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
Note 2: On January 1, 2012, for all fiscal years and interim periods presented, the Company adopted a FASB accounting standards update to address disparities in practice regarding the interpretation of which costs relating to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance contracts qualify for deferral. This guidance was adopted on a retrospective basis. The impact of adoption of this guidance was a reduction in deferred acquisition costs of approximately $21 million, a reduction in deferred tax liabilities of approximately $7 million, and a corresponding reduction in opening retained earnings of approximately $14 million from the amounts presented in the Company's December 31, 2011 balance sheet. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated statements of income or comprehensive income.
Note 3: Ordinary shares outstanding include all ordinary shares legally issued and outstanding (as disclosed on the face of the balance sheet) as well as all director share units outstanding.
Note 4: Book value per share, fully diluted book value per ordinary share and fully diluted tangible book value per ordinary share are non-GAAP financial measures. Fully diluted book value per share represents book value per ordinary share (total shareholders' equity less non-controlling interest in equity of consolidated subsidiaries, divided by the number of outstanding ordinary shares at any period end) combined with the dilutive impact of potential future share issues at any period end. Fully diluted tangible book value per ordinary share is calculated in the same manner as fully diluted book value per ordinary share except that goodwill and intangible assets are removed from ordinary shareholders' equity.
The following is a reconciliation of the Company's net income (loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders to operating net income (loss) (Note 2) and also includes the calculation of annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (based on operating net income (loss)) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011.
Note 1: Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
Note 2: Defined as net income (loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders excluding (1) net realized gains and losses on investments, net of tax, for XL, (2) net realized and unrealized gains and losses on derivatives, net of tax, for XL, (3) its share of items (1) and (2) for the Company's insurance company affiliates for the periods presented, (4) goodwill impairment charges, net of tax, (5) the gains recognized on the repurchase of XLIT Ltd.'s preference ordinary shares and (6) foreign exchange gains or losses, net of tax. "Operating net income" and "return on ordinary shareholders' equity" based on operating net income are "non-GAAP financial measures."
Note 3: Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding is used to calculate per share data except where it is anti-dilutive to earnings per share or where there is a net loss. When it is anti-dilutive or when a net loss occurs, basic weighted average ordinary shares outstanding is utilized in the calculation of net loss per share and net operating loss per share.
Note 4: Ordinary shareholders' equity is defined as total shareholders' equity less non-controlling interest in equity of consolidated subsidiaries.
Note 5: On January 1, 2012, for all fiscal years and interim periods presented, the Company adopted a FASB accounting standards update to address disparities in practice regarding the interpretation of which costs relating to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance contracts qualify for deferral. This guidance was adopted on a retrospective basis. The impact of adoption of this guidance was a reduction in deferred acquisition costs of approximately $21 million, a reduction in deferred tax liabilities of approximately $7 million, and a corresponding reduction in opening retained earnings of approximately $14 million from the amounts presented in the Company's December 31, 2011 balance sheet. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated statements of income or comprehensive income.
XL presents its operations in the way it believes will be most meaningful and useful to investors, analysts, rating agencies and others who use XL's financial information in evaluating XL's performance. This press release contains the presentation of (i) operating net income (loss) ("Operating Net Income"), which is defined as net income (loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders excluding: (1) net realized gains and losses on investments, net of tax, for XL, (2) net realized and unrealized gains and losses on derivatives, net of tax, for XL, (3) its share of items (1) and (2) for the Company's insurance company affiliates for the periods presented, (4) goodwill impairment charges, net of tax, (5) the gains recognized on the repurchase of XLIT Ltd.'s preference ordinary shares and (6) foreign exchange gains or losses, net of tax; (ii) annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity ("ROE") based on operating net income (loss) ("Operating ROE"); and (iii) book value per ordinary share (ordinary shareholders' equity divided by the number of shares outstanding at the period end date), fully diluted book value per ordinary share (book value per share combined with the dilutive impact of potential future share issues at any period end), and fully diluted tangible book value per ordinary share (calculated in the same manner as fully diluted book value per ordinary share except that goodwill and intangible assets are removed from ordinary shareholders' equity)
.
These items are "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Regulation G. The reconciliation of such measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in accordance with Regulation G is included in this press release.
Although the investment of premiums to generate income (or loss) and realized capital gains (or losses) is an integral part of XL's operations, the determination to realize capital gains (or losses) is independent of the underwriting process. In addition, under applicable GAAP accounting requirements, losses can be created as the result of other than temporary declines in value and from goodwill impairment charges without actual realization. In this regard, certain users of XL's financial information, including certain rating agencies, evaluate earnings before tax and capital gains to understand the profitability of the recurring sources of income without the effects of these two variables. Furthermore, these users believe that, for many companies, the timing of the realization of capital gains and the recognition of goodwill impairment charges are largely a function of economic and interest rate conditions.
Net realized and unrealized (gains) losses on derivatives, net of tax include all derivatives entered into by XL other than certain credit derivatives. With respect to credit derivatives, because XL and its insurance company operating affiliates generally hold financial guaranty contracts written in credit default derivative form to maturity, the net effects of the changes in fair value of these credit derivatives are excluded (similar with other companies' treatment of such contracts) as the changes in fair value each quarter are not indicative of underlying business performance.
The gains recognized on the repurchase of XLIT Ltd.'s preference ordinary shares are excluded as these transactions were capital in nature and outside the scope of the Company's underlying business.
Foreign exchange gains and losses in the income statement are only one element of the overall impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on the Company's financial position and are not representative of any economic gain or loss made by the Company. Accordingly, it is not a relevant indicator of financial performance and it is excluded.
In summary, XL evaluates the performance of and manages its business to produce an underwriting profit. In addition to presenting net income (loss), XL believes that showing operating net income (loss) enables investors and other users of XL's financial information to analyze XL's performance in a manner similar to how management of XL analyzes performance. In this regard, XL believes that providing only a GAAP presentation of net income (loss) makes it much more difficult for users of XL's financial information to evaluate XL's underlying business. Also, as stated above, XL believes that the equity analysts and certain rating agencies that follow XL (and the insurance industry as a whole) exclude these items from their analyses for the same reasons and they request that XL provide this non-GAAP financial information on a regular basis.
Operating ROE is a widely used measure of any company's profitability that is calculated by dividing annualized Operating Net Income for any period by the average of the opening and closing ordinary shareholders' equity. The Company establishes target Operating ROEs for its total operations, segments and lines of business. If the Company's Operating ROE targets are not met with respect to any line of business over time, the Company seeks to re-evaluate these lines.


