FILE:KSS/KSS-8K-20050301162210.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 23, 2005 the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Kohl's Corporation made its annual grant of stock options to the Company's Executive Vice Presidents.  The form of option award is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K.  
The Compensation Committee further established net income hurdles for fiscal 2005 under the Company's executive bonus plan.  The Company maintains the executive bonus plan for its management Board members, buyers, store managers and other key executives such as sales support managers and merchandise planners.  The management Board is comprised of the Company's executive officers, senior vice presidents, vice presidents, directors, district managers and divisional merchandise managers.  Under the plan, the Compensation Committee fixes net income goals for the Company for each fiscal year.  Participants receive a predetermined percentage of their base pay depending upon the net income level achieved.  A summary of the plan is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01.  .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  March 1, 2005
KOHL'S CORPORATION
By:
  /s/ Richard D. Schepp                                   
Richard D. Schepp
Executive Vice President
General Counsel and Secretary

Exhibit 10.1

Exhibit 10.2
I.
Purpose
The purpose of the Executive Bonus Plan is to provide eligible executives with a financial incentive, encouraging them to perform in a manner, which will enable the Company to meet or exceed its financial objectives each fiscal year.
II.
Eligibility and Participation
The following executive positions are included in the Executive Bonus Plan:
Management Board
Buyers/Planners/Merchant Division Managers
Store Managers
Other key sales support managers may also be eligible for participation in the plan.  Participants  employed for the full fiscal year are eligible to participate in  the Plan for the entire fiscal year.  An executive newly hired or promoted into a plan-eligible position during a fiscal year for which a bonus is paid will have his/her bonus prorated from the date of hire or promotion to the close of the fiscal year.
For eligible executives terminating for reasons of disability or retirement, a prorated portion of the bonus will be paid.  Pro rations will be based on full months of service during the fiscal year.  For eligible executives terminating for reason of death, a full bonus will be paid.  Executives terminating for any other reason prior to the end of  a fiscal year will not be eligible to receive any portion of the bonus for that fiscal year.
III.
Company Performance Hurdle Requirements
In order for bonuses to be granted under the Plan, Company performance for a fiscal year must equal or exceed net income goals for the company as established by the Board of Directors' Compensation Committee.  The particular bonus tiers will be determined by the Committee annually at the beginning of each fiscal year and communicated to participants as soon as determined.
IV.
Amount of Bonus
Assuming the tier requirement described in Section III is met or exceeded, participants will be granted a bonus based on a percentage of their base pay.  The earned percentage is based on their level (position) within the organization.
V.
Payout Schedule
Bonus grants will be paid as soon as possible, following confirmation by the Compensation Committee that the required net income objectives have been met.
VI.
General Provision and Definitions
a.  The bonus payment will be subject to an executive's normal types of withholding taxes but such withholding will be at the minimum required rate.
b.  Whenever the term income appears it shall mean income after interest expense and taxes.
c.  Whenever the term base pay appears it refers to the rate of pay in effect on the last day of the fiscal year and before taxes and other deductions have been made and also prior to any contributions made under the Company's 401(k) plan.  In the event of termination due to retirement, death or disability the last day of the last full month worked shall replace the last day of the fiscal year.
d.  Whenever the term retirement appears it shall mean retirement under Kohl's Retirement Policy.
e.  In limited circumstances, the Chief Executive Officer, in consultation with the Compensation Committee, may approve limited exceptions to the terms of the Plan


