FILE:KSS/KSS-8K-20050512163650.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
The information in this report, including the exhibit attached hereto, is furnished solely pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 of this Form 8-K.  Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Further, the information in this report, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933.
Item 2.02. .
 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 12, 2005, Kohl's Corporation issued a press release reporting its earnings for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2005 and updating guidance concerning targeted comparable store sales growth, earnings growth and earnings per diluted share for fiscal 2005.  
Separately, the Company stated that it decided to early adopt, in the first quarter of 2005, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, which modifies SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."  This revised accounting standard requires that all stock-based compensation, including grants of employee stock options, be accounted for using a fair-value-based method.  The Company has elected to use the modified retrospective method which requires restatement of prior year's results.  The prior period financial statements will be restated under the provisions of SFAS 123R to recognize compensation cost in the amounts previously reported in the pro-forma footnote disclosures.  The restatements for each of the fiscal 2004 quarters will be included in the Company's 2005 quarterly filings on Form 10-Q and the restated income statements were also attached to the press release.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 7.01.  .
Regulation FD Disclosure
See Item 2.02.
Item 9.01.  .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  May 12, 2005
KOHL'S CORPORATION
By:
/s/ Richard D. Schepp                                
Richard D. Schepp
Executive Vice President
General Counsel and Secretary

Exhibit 99.1
National & Retail Trades and First Call, Release: May 12, 2005 at 4:00 PM (EST)
First Quarter Net Income Increase of 21.0% and EPS of $0.36 per Diluted Share
Company Began Expensing of Stock Options in First Quarter of Fiscal 2005
MENOMONEE FALLS, WI  May 12/BUSINESS WIRE/Kohl's Corporation (NYSE:KSS). Kohl's Corporation today reported results for the three months ended April 30, 2005.  
First Quarter Results
Kohl's Corporation reported a 21.0 percent increase in net income for the quarter ended April 30, 2005. Net income was $124.7 million, or $0.36 per diluted share, compared with $103.1 million or $0.30 per diluted share a year ago. Both periods reflect the Company's decision to early adopt expensing of stock options and the correction of the method used to account for leases.
Net sales for the quarter increased to $2.7 billion from $2.4 billion a year ago, an increase of 15.2 percent. Comparable store sales increased 3.7 percent for the same period.
Larry Montgomery, Kohl's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "I am pleased with our performance in the first quarter on both the top and bottom line.  We achieved both our targeted comparable store sales growth and net income growth for the quarter.  Looking forward, we are targeting comparable store sales growth to be in the mid-single digit range for the remainder of the year.  We continue to target earnings growth of approximately 20% over our restated 2004 results and expect our earnings per diluted share for fiscal 2005 to be in the $2.40 - $2.50 range."
Montgomery added, "I appreciate the role that our associates played in helping the Company achieve a successful quarter.  It is because of their hard work and dedication to serving our customers that you can expect great things' from Kohl's."
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
Separately, Kohl's Corporation decided to early adopt, in the first quarter of 2005, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, which modifies SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." This revised accounting standard requires that all stock-based compensation, including grants of employee stock options, be accounted for using a fair-value-based method.  The Company has elected to use the modified retrospective method which requires restatement of prior years' results.  The prior period financial statements will be restated under the provisions of SFAS 123R to recognize compensation cost in the amounts previously reported in the pro forma footnote disclosures. The restatements for each of the fiscal 2004 quarters will be included in Kohl's 2005 quarterly filings on Forms 10-Q.  The restated income statements are also attached to today's quarterly earnings re lease.  
Expansion Update
During the first quarter, the Company successfully opened 32 new stores, including its entry into the Buffalo, NY market with three stores; adding seven stores in the Southeast region; six stores in the Midwest region and four stores each in the Mid-Atlantic, Northeast, South Central and Southwest regions.  
The Company now operates 669 stores in 40 states, compared with 589 stores in 38 states at the same time last year.
The Company will open one store in the Chicago, IL market in May and expects to open approximately 62 additional stores in the third fiscal quarter.  In August, the Company will open four new stores.  The remaining stores, including new entries into Orlando and Jacksonville, Florida will open in October.
First Quarter Conference Call
Investors will have the opportunity to listen to the conference call today at 5:00 PM (EDT) by dialing (847) 619-6368 ten minutes prior to the start of the call, over the Internet through the Company's web site located at (see "Company News"), or through Broadcast Network's vcall web site located at . To listen to the call, please go to the web site at least fifteen minutes early to register, download and install any necessary audio software. For those who cannot listen to the live broadcast, a replay of the call will be available for 36 hours at (630) 652-3018, Pass Code: 11410364#.
http://www.kohls.com
http://www.vcall.com
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC Conference
Larry Montgomery, Kohl's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, presents at the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC  Twenty-First Annual Strategic Decisions Conference 2005 at The Waldorf Astoria, New York City, on June 1 at 8am (EDT). The presentation will be Webcast live over the Internet via the Company's Web site located at (see "Investor Relations", "Calendar of Events" and scroll to June). For those who cannot listen to the live broadcast, a seven-day replay will be available shortly after the broadcast.  To access the replay, simply visit the link above.
www.kohls.com
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including guidance on the Company's targeted sales and earnings.  Kohl's intends forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "anticipates," "plans," or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.  Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements.  These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those described on Exhibit 99.1 to Kohl's annual report on Form 10-K, which is expressly incorporated herein by reference, and other factors as may periodically be described in Kohl's filings with the SEC.
Investor Relations Contact: Wes McDonald, Chief Financial Officer, (262) 703-1893
Media Contact:  Vicki Shamion, Director  Public Relations, (262) 703-1464


