FILE:KSS/KSS-8K-20060421163223.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.01.  .
Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
On April 21, 2006, Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. completed the previously announced sale of its proprietary credit card accounts to JPMorgan Chase.  The press release issued by Kohl's on April 21, 2006 with respect to the completion of the transaction is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Under the Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of March 5, 2006 (the "Purchase Agreement"), Kohl's sold to Chase all right, title and interest in its approximately 13 million proprietary credit card accounts and outstanding balances associated with those accounts for approximately $1.6 billion in cash.
In connection with the execution and delivery of the Purchase Agreement, Kohl's entered into a Private Label Credit Card Program Agreement, dated March 5, 2005 (the "Program Agreement"), pursuant to which Chase will offer private label credit cards to new and existing customers of Kohl's and Kohl's will receive ongoing payments related to the profitability of the credit card program.  Kohl's will continue to handle all customer service functions and will continue to be responsible for all advertising and marketing related to its credit card customers.  In addition, Kohl's retained the option to repurchase the program assets from Chase upon expiration of the initial five year term or upon earlier termination of the Program Agreement.
The Purchase Agreement and Program Agreement were filed as exhibits to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006.
Item 9.01.  .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(b)
Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Statements
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements are based on the consolidated financial statements of Kohl's adjusted to give effect to the sale of the credit card accounts and the Program Agreement.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements are presented for illustrative purposes only and, therefore, are not necessarily indicative of the operating results and financial position that might have been achieved had the transactions occurred as of an earlier date, nor are they necessarily indicative of operating results and financial position that may occur in the future.  The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements do not reflect the use of the net cash proceeds in the Company's on-going operations or the effect on the Company's future financial position, except where used to reduce short-term borrowings.  The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006.
(d)
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  April 21, 2006
KOHL'S CORPORATION
By:
  /s/ Richard D. Schepp                                   
Richard D. Schepp
Executive Vice President
General Counsel and Secretary

Exhibit 99.1
Menomonee Falls, Wis., April 21, 2006  Kohl's Corporation (NYSE: KSS)announced today that it completed the sale of its proprietary credit card business to JPMorgan Chase (NYSE: JPM). Under the terms of the purchase and sale agreement, Chase acquired Kohl's private label credit card accounts and the outstanding balances associated with the accounts. Kohl's received approximately $1.6 billion in cash for the account balances outstanding. As previously reported, Kohl's plans to use the net proceeds to repurchase its common stock, to fund store expansion and for general corporate purposes.
Additionally, the companies have entered into a multi-year agreement that provides for Kohl's to receive ongoing payments related to the profitability of the credit card portfolio.Kohl's and Chase will also work together on various marketing initiatives designed to increase Kohl's sales and further enhance credit growth and profitability.
Kohl's will maintain its current credit operations and will continue to handle all customer service functions and be responsible for all advertising and marketing related to its credit card customers.  All of Kohl's current credit organization associates will remain employees of Kohl's.  Further, the company expects the credit organization to grow to support the long-term growth plans of the company.
Kohl's charge card customers will continue to receive the same great benefits with the use of their charge card.  Customers should continue to use their cards in the same manner as they do today.
About Kohl's
Based in Menomonee Falls, Wis., Kohl's is a family-focused, value-oriented specialty department store offering moderately priced national and exclusive brand apparel, shoes, accessories, home and beauty products in an exciting shopping environment. Kohl's operates 749 stores in 43 states. For a list of store locations and information, or for the added convenience of shopping online, visit Kohl's Web site at .
www.Kohls.com
Wes McDonald, Chief Financial Officer, (262) 703-1893
Investor Relations Contact:
Julie Gardner, Senior Vice President of Marketing, (262) 703-1305
Public Relations Contact:
About JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $1.2 trillion and operations in more than 50 countries. The company has more than 100 million credit cards issued.  Under the JPMorgan and Chase brands, the firm serves millions of consumers in the United States and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.  Information about the firm is available at www.jpmorganchase.com.
Public Relations Contact:
Jessica Iben, (302) 282-6150, Jessica.e.iben@chase.com


