FILE:KSS/KSS-8K-20061013160505.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 1.01.
.
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On October 12, 2006, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with various lenders party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as an Issuing Bank and the Syndication Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., U.S. Bank, National Association and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as the Co-Documentation Agents, and The Bank of New York, as an Issuing Bank, the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent.  
The Credit Agreement provides for a $900.0 million senior unsecured five-year revolving credit facility and includes, among other things, a maximum leverage ratio financial covenant and restrictions on liens and subsidiary indebtedness.  Events of default under the Credit Agreement include a change of control of the Company and the Company's default of other debt exceeding $35.0 million.
Item 1.02.
.
Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
In connection with entering into the Credit Agreement referenced above, on October 12, 2006, the Company terminated its previously existing Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of July 10, 2002 among the Company, the lenders party thereto, Bank One, NA, as Syndication Agent, U.S. Bank, National Association, Wachovia Bank, National Association and Fleet National Bank, as Co-Documentation Agents, and The Bank of New York as Issuing Bank, Swing Line Lender and Administrative Agent.
Item 2.03.
.
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
See Item 1.01.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  October 13, 2006
KOHL'S CORPORATION
By:
 /s/ Richard D. Schepp                         
Richard D. Schepp
Executive Vice President
General Counsel and Secretary


