FILE:KSS/KSS-8K-20071002124817.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
The information in this report, including the exhibit attached hereto, is furnished solely pursuant to Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K.  Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Further, the information in this report, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933.
Item 7.01.
.
Regulation FD Disclosure
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 are materials which will be distributed by Kohl's Corporation ("Company") to attendees of the Company's 2007 Investor Conference.  The materials will be distributed at approximately 12:30 p.m. Indianapolis, Indiana time on Tuesday, October 2, 2007.
On October 2, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing the opening of 95 new stores and outlining its future growth plans.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  October 2, 2007
KOHL'S CORPORATION
By:
 /s/ Richard D. Schepp                           
Richard D. Schepp
Executive Vice President
General Counsel and Secretary

Exhibit 99.1

Exhibit 99.2
Contacts:
Vicki Shamion, Kohl's, 262.703.1464
Kelli Ramey, Kohl's, 262.703.7725
, October 2, 2007  Today Kohl's Corporation (NYSE:KSS) announced its five-year strategic growth plan for 2008 through 2012, highlighting financial objectives and plans for a national presence of 1,400 stores.  At the same time, the company is celebrating the largest grand opening in its history which includes 95 new stores reflecting innovative features, one new state and 14,000 newly created jobs.  
MENOMONEE FALLS, Wis.
 
"For the past two years, we have exceeded our financial objectives and believe we are well positioned to deliver on our long-term strategic growth plan," said Larry Montgomery, Kohl's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  "We remain focused on merchandising, inventory management, marketing and the in-store shopping experience as well as our expansion plan."
 
Long-term Strategic Growth Plan
While meeting with analysts today in Indianapolis, Kohls showcased its newest in-store features and discussed financial objectives for 2008 through 2012 including:
Comparable store sales are expected to grow 2 to 4 percent annually.
Total sales growth is expected to be 9 to 11 percent on a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) basis from $15.5 billion in 2006 through 2012.
Operating margin is expected to be to 13 to 13.5 percent by 2012.
Earnings per share are expected to grow 15 to 17 percent on a CAGR basis from $3.31 in 2006 through 2012.
Capital expenditures are expected to be $1.6 to $1.7 billion annually with continual investment in new stores, remodels, technology and merchandise presentation.
Free cash flow is expected to see continued annual improvement, reaching $1.2 to $1.4 billion by 2012.
Return on invested capital is expected to be 14 percent by 2012.
Kohl's expects to operate 1,400 stores by 2012.   
 
To further drive growth and improve customers' in-store experience, Kohl's will enhance its geographically tailored assortments in addition to ensuring strong in-stock position of the right style, size and color for customers nationwide. Kohl's also remains focused on encouraging cross-shopping among departments by maximizing consumer communication from engaging in-store presentations, such as introducing accessories fixtures in Juniors' for creating wardrobe inspiration,  to integrating head-to-toe messaging across all advertising and marketing mediums.
 
Tomorrow Kohl's will open 80 stores, followed by an additional 15 store openings in mid-November.   Following fall's historic 95-store grand opening, Kohl's will operate 929 stores nationwide.  In the last two years, Kohl's has introduced innovative store designs which feature elements to increase comfort and convenience for shoppers.  In addition, the company has incorporated these elements into its remodeled stores.  All of these enhancements are in response to research and consumer feedback with the newest design focused on the Juniors' department and updated lighting and fixtures for jewelry, accessories and intimates.
This fall Kohl's enters its 47th state with its debut in Wyoming. Stores are opening in 13 markets new to Kohl's such as Spokane, Wash.; Panama City and West Palm Beach, Fla.; Abilene, Texas and Cheyenne, Wyo. For a full list of fall grand openings, visit .
www.kohls.com
 
Kohl's Department Stores
Based in Menomonee Falls, Wis., Kohl's (NYSE: KSS) is a family-focused, value-oriented specialty department store offering moderately priced, exclusive and national brand apparel, shoes, accessories, beauty and home products in an exciting shopping environment. By the end of November, Kohl's will operate 929 stores in 47 states.  A company committed to the communities it serves, Kohl's has raised more than $85 million for children's initiatives nationwide through its Kohl's Cares for Kids philanthropic program.  For a list of store locations and information, or for the added convenience of shopping online, visit .
www.kohls.com
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including guidance on the Company's targeted sales and earnings.  Kohl's intends forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "anticipates," "plans," or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.  Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements.  These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of Kohl's annual report on Form 10-K, which is expressly incorporated herein by reference, and other factors as may periodically be described in Kohl's filings with the SEC.
 
 


