FILE:KSS/KSS-8K-20070724165547.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02.  .
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On July 24, 2007, Kohl's Corporation issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has increased the size of the Board to twelve members and had elected Stephanie A. Streeter to fill the new Board seat, effective immediately.  A copy of the press release announcing the changes is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  There have been no related party transactions between Kohl's Corporation and Ms. Streeter.
Item 9.01.  .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  July 24, 2007
KOHL'S CORPORATION
By:
/s/ Richard D. Schepp                         
Richard D. Schepp
Executive Vice President
General Counsel and Secretary

MENOMONEE FALLS, Wis, July 24, 2007  --  Kohl's Corporation (NYSE: KSS) today announced that its Board of Directors has increased the size of the Board to 12 members and has elected Stephanie A. Streeter to fill the new seat, effective immediately.  
Streeter has been elected to a term expiring at Kohl's 2008 annual shareholder meeting  and will be eligible for re-election by Kohl's shareholders at that time.  She will initially serve on the Board of Director's Governance & Nominating Committee.
Larry Montgomery, Kohl's chairman and chief executive officer, said, "We are delighted to have Stephanie Streeter join our Board of Directors.  Her deep managerial experience, demonstrated leadership, strategic vision and commitment to execution will be invaluable as Kohl's continues to execute its growth strategies."
Streeter was the chairman, president and chief executive officer of Banta Corporation, a global technology and market leader in printing and supply-chain management from 2004 until January 2007, when Banta was acquired by R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company.  She also serves on the Board of Directors of the United States Olympic Committee, the Green Bay Packers and Catalyst, a non-profit organization working to advance opportunities for women and business.
Based in Menomonee Falls, Wis., Kohl's (NYSE: KSS) is a family-focused, value-oriented specialty department store offering moderately priced, exclusive and national brand apparel, shoes, accessories, beauty and home products in an exciting shopping environment. A company committed to the communities it serves, Kohl's operates 834 stores in 46 states and has raised more than $85 million for children's initiatives nationwide through its Kohl's Cares for Kids philanthropic program.  For a list of store locations and information, or for the added convenience of shopping online, visit www.kohls.com.
About Kohl's
Wes McDonald, Chief Financial Officer, (262) 703-1893
Investor Relations Contact:
Vicki Shamion, Vice President of Public Relations, (262) 703-1464
Public Relations Contact:


