FILE:KSS/KSS-8K-20080501162350.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02.  .
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On May 1, 2008, Kohl's Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that the Board of Directors has increased the size of the Board to twelve members and has elected Peter Boneparth and Dale E. Jones to fill the new Board seats effective immediately.  Mr. Boneparth and Mr. Jones are expected to serve on the Board of Directors' Governance & Nominating Committee.  A copy of the press release announcing the elections is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  
As non-employee directors of the Company, Mr. Boneparth and Mr. Jones will participate in the Company's Outside Director Compensation Program, as described on Exhibit 10.26 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008.  Pursuant to the Outside Director Compensation Program, Mr. Boneparth and Mr. Jones are expected to receive stock options with a grant date fair value of $100,000 on June 13, 2008.  These stock options will have a ten-year term and will vest in full on the first anniversary of the date of grant.  The strike price of these options will be the closing price of the Company's stock on June 13, 2008.
Neither Mr. Boneparth nor Mr. Jones has any arrangement or understanding with any persons pursuant to which he was elected to serve as a director, except as described herein.  Neither Mr. Boneparth nor Mr. Jones has any family relationship with any officer or director of the Company.  Further, neither Mr. Boneparth nor Mr. Jones has been involved in any related transactions or relationships with the Company as defined in Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Item 9.01.  .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  May 1, 2008
KOHL'S CORPORATION
By:
/s/ Richard D. Schepp                            
Richard D. Schepp
Executive Vice President
General Counsel and Secretary

Exhibit 99.1
PETER BONEPARTH AND DALE E. JONES ELECTED TO KOHL'S CORPORATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MENOMONEE FALLS, Wis., May 1, 2008  Kohl's Corporation (NYSE: KSS) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected Peter Boneparth and Dale E. Jones as new board members, effective immediately. 
Boneparth and Jones have been elected to a term expiring at Kohl's 2009 annual shareholders meeting and will be eligible for re-election by Kohl's shareholders at that time. They will also initially serve on the Board of Directors' Governance and Nominating Committee.
Larry Montgomery, Kohl's chairman and chief executive officer, said, "Peter and Dale are strong additions to our board. Peter's first-hand knowledge of the apparel industry, along with his proven executive management experience and strategic vision will benefit Kohl's in the near- and long-term.  And Dale brings extensive experience in the area of building world-class executive leadership teams. His demonstrated expertise will be a valuable asset to Kohl's."
Based in Menomonee Falls, Wis., Kohl's (NYSE: KSS) is a family-focused, value-oriented specialty department store offering moderately priced, exclusive and national brand apparel, shoes, accessories, beauty and home products in an exciting shopping environment. Kohl's operates 957 stores in 47 states and will celebrate the opening of its 1,000th store in the fall. A company committed to the communities it serves, Kohl's has raised more than $102 million for children's initiatives nationwide through its Kohl's Cares for Kids philanthropic program.  For a list of store locations and information, or for the added convenience of shopping online, visit .
About Kohl's
www.kohls.com


