FILE:KSS/KSS-8K-20080821081304.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02. .
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On August 21, 2008, Kohl's Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the promotion of Kevin Mansell to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately.  Mr. Mansell succeeds R. Lawrence Montgomery as Chief Executive Officer.  Mr. Montgomery will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board of the Company and will continue to hold certain full time management responsibilities as described in the press release, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and incorporated herein by reference.
In connection with his promotion, Mr. Mansell will receive an increase in his base salary to $1,150,000, as well as a grant of 250,000 stock options and certain restricted stock awards.  The foregoing summary of the compensation arrangements for Mr. Mansell does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the promotion letter attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which letter is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.  .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  August 21, 2008
KOHL'S CORPORATION
By:
 /s/ Richard D. Schepp                                    
Richard D. Schepp
Executive Vice President
General Counsel and Secretary

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
August 21, 2008
MENOMONEE FALLS, Wis., August 21, 2008  Kohl's Corporation (NYSE:  KSS) today announced that Kevin Mansell, a 26-year veteran of the organization who has served as presidentsince 1999, has been named president and chief executive officer and will continue to serve on the Board of Directors, effective immediately.
Mr. Mansell, 56, succeeds Larry Montgomery, 59, who will remain chairman of the board and will hold full time management responsibilities for the organization's strategic growth and talent management initiatives. Montgomery will continue to manage Kohl's Human Resources, Legal and Real Estate Departments.
As president and chief executive officer, Mansell will be responsible for the development and execution of strategic initiatives, day to day operations, and Kohl's long term growth plan. In addition to his current management responsibilities for Product Development, Logistics/Store Planning, Merchandise Planning, Information Systems, Ecommerce, Marketing and Business Development, he will also manage Finance and Store Operations.
 "Having worked with Kevin for over 20 years, I am confident he is the right choice to lead Kohl's Corporation," said Montgomery. "His strategic vision, in depth management experience, and extensive knowledge of Kohl's and the retail landscape, will allow him to effectively manage the organization for long term sustainable growth."
As one of the fastest growing department stores in the country, a strategic, long term succession plan has been integral to Kohl's success. Mansell's promotion is the most recent demonstration of this strategy.
 "As president for the last nine years, I have had the pleasure to work collaboratively with Larry on every aspect of our business," said Mansell. "More than ever, it is important we remain focused on our four strategic initiatives:  merchandising, marketing, inventory management and the in-store shopping experience.  We believe we are well positioned to continue to capture market share in this competitive and difficult economic environment."  
With 26 years of progressive experience within Kohl's Corporation, Mansell joined the company in 1982 as a divisional merchandise manager and was promoted to general merchandise manager in 1987.  Over the next nine years, his responsibilities expanded to include merchandise planning and allocation. With extensive experience across a variety of disciplines, Mansell was promoted to senior executive vice president of merchandising and marketing in 1998. Since 1999 he has served as president.  Mansell and Montgomery worked together in senior executive leadership roles for more than 20 years, and as a collaborative president and CEO team for nearly ten years.  
Based in Menomonee Falls, Wis., Kohl's (NYSE: KSS) is a family-focused, value-oriented specialty department store offering moderately priced, exclusive and national brand apparel, shoes, accessories, beauty and home products in an exciting shopping environment. Kohl's operates 957 stores in 47 states and will celebrate the opening of its 1,000th store in the fall. A company committed to the communities it serves, Kohl's has raised more than $102 million for children's initiatives nationwide through its Kohl's Cares for Kids philanthropic program. For a list of store locations and information, or for the added convenience of shopping online, visit .
About Kohl's
www.kohls.com
 
Investor Relations Contact:
Wes McDonald, Chief Financial Officer (262) 703-1893
Public Relations Contact:  
Vicki Shamion, Vice President Public Relations (262) 703-1464

Exhibit 99.2
[KOHL'S LOGO]
August 19, 2008
Mr. Kevin Mansell
5370 N. Lake Drive
Whitefish Bay, WI 53217
Dear Kevin,
It is my pleasure to congratulate you on your promotion.
: You are being promoted to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer.  You will continue to be a member of the Executive Committee and a Principal Officer of Kohl's.  You will continue to report to me in my capacity as Chairman.
Your Position
: Your annual salary will be $1,150,000.  You will be paid semi-monthly, on the 15th and 30th of each month. Your job performance and base compensation will next be reviewed in the spring of 2009 with any change in your compensation effective April 1, 2009.
Your Salary
: Your promotion is effective August 20, 2008.
Your Promotion Date
: Based on your position as President and CEO, you will continue to be eligible to participate in Kohl's Executive Bonus Plan that pays from 0% to 175% of your base salary. This incentive is an annual team bonus that recognizes your contributions based on total company financial performance.  
Team Performance Bonus
In accordance with the customary practice of promotional grants, you will be awarded a grant of 250,000 stock options which will vest 20% each year over 5 years. In accordance with Kohl's Equity Compensation Award Guidelines, the stock options will be granted on September 15, 2008, which is the 15th of the month following the month of your promotion.  The option price will be based on the closing market price at that time.
Stock Options and Restricted Stock:  
Also on September 15, 2008, you will receive the following restricted stock awards:
 (A)  
To further promote alignment of incentives with business results, you will also be granted that number of "Performance Shares" equal to the lesser of: (i) 50,000 or (ii) $2,500,000 divided by the closing market price of Kohl's common stock on September 15, 2008.   The Performance Shares will vest 25% annually if Kohl's meets specific performance goals relative to a peer index.  Details of the performance metrics will be provided in a written equity award agreement; and
(B)
That number of restricted shares with 4-year cliff vesting equal to the sum of (i) 50,000 plus (ii) the difference, if any, between 50,000 and the number of Performance Shares granted per (A) above.
 As President and CEO, you will be entitled to participate in all other benefit programs available to Kohl's Principal Officers, including (i) medical and dental insurance, (ii) a supplemental medical plan, (iii) life and long-term disability insurance, (iv) an annual physical benefit, (v) financial consulting up to $3,500 per year, (vi) income tax preparation, and (vii) an automobile of a quality and value comparable to the automobile currently provided.
Other Benefits:
This offer is subject to your acceptance and execution of an amendment to your current employment agreement with Kohl's.
Conditions:
Again, congratulations on your promotion.  I look forward to our continuing relationship in supporting the success and growth of our Company.
Sincerely,
/s/ R. Lawrence Montgomery
R. Lawrence Montgomery
Chairman and CEO
Agreed to and accepted this 19th day of August, 2008.
By:  
/s/ Kevin Mansell                        
Kevin Mansell


