FILE:KSS/KSS-8K-20100322101715.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
On March 22, 2010, Kohl's Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that the Board of Directors has increased the size of the Board to eleven members and has elected Nina G. Vaca to fill the new Board seat effective immediately.  Ms. Vaca is expected to serve on the Governance & Nominating Committee.  A copy of the press release announcing the election is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  
As a non-employee director of the Company, Ms. Vaca will participate in the Company's Outside Director Compensation Program, as described on Exhibit 10.26 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008.  Pursuant to the Outside Director Compensation Program, Ms. Vaca is expected to receive 4,776 stock options on April 15, 2010 .  These stock options will have a ten-year term and will vest in full on the first anniversary of the date of grant.  The strike price of these options will be the closing price of the Company's stock on April 15, 2010.
Ms. Vaca does not have any arrangement or understanding with any persons pursuant to which she was elected to serve as a director, except as described herein.  Ms. Vaca does not have  any family relationship with any officer or director of the Company.  Further, Ms. Vaca has not been involved in any related transactions or relationships with the Company as defined in Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Item 9.01.  .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  March 22, 2010
KOHL'S CORPORATION
By:
 /s/ Richard D. Schepp                             
Richard D. Schepp
Executive Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary

Exhibit 99.1
MENOMONEE FALLS, Wis., March 22, 2010  Kohl's Corporation (NYSE: KSS) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected Nina G. Vaca (professional name of Ximena G. Humrichouse) as a new board member, effective immediately.
Vaca has been elected to a term expiring at Kohl's 2010 annual shareholders meeting and will be eligible for re-election by Kohl's shareholders at that time. She will initially serve on the Board of Directors' Governance and Nominating Committee.
Kevin Mansell, Kohl's chairman, president and chief executive officer, said, "Nina is a great addition to our board. Her extensive IT experience and entrepreneurial spirit will be valuable assets to Kohl's as we continue to focus on executing our strategy and growing our market share."
Vaca, 38, is the founder and CEO of Pinnacle Technical Resources, Inc. - a staffing, vendor management, and IT solutions firm that serves Fortune 500 clients. Under Vaca's leadership, Pinnacle has become the fifth fastest growing firm of its type in a $20 billion industry and now has 2,500 consultants across the U.S. and Canada. Vaca's business success has brought a number of distinctions, such as Ernst & Young's Entrepreneur of the Year Award for Technology & Communications for the Southwest Region,   from , and a listing among 100 Most Influential Hispanics in America.
Top 25 Women Business Builders in America
Fast Company Magazine
Latino Leaders Magazine's
Vaca is a graduate of HACR/Harvard Business School's Corporate Governance Executive Program and Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management Advanced Management Education Program. She was honored by Texas State University as its youngest ever Distinguished Alumna and holds a Doctor of Laws from Northwood University. Vaca has also represented the U.S. in several transatlantic leadership forums, including the German Marshall Memorial Fellow program and the British-American Project. Vaca serves as Region III Chair of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.  She also serves on the Board of Governors for Northwood University and the Board of Directors of Comerica Inc.
Honoris Causa
About Kohl's
Based in Menomonee Falls, Wis., Kohl's (NYSE: KSS) is a family-focused, value-oriented specialty department store offering moderately priced, exclusive and national brand apparel, shoes, accessories, beauty and home products in an exciting shopping environment. By the end of March, Kohl's will operate 1,067 stores in 49 states. A company committed to the communities it serves, Kohl's has raised more than $126 million for children's initiatives nationwide through its Kohl's Cares for Kids philanthropic program, which operates under Kohl's Cares, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. For a list of store locations and information, or for the added convenience of shopping online, visit
www.kohls.com
.
Contacts:
Kohl's Investor Relations:  Wes McDonald, Chief Financial Office, (262) 703-1893
Kohl's Media Relations: Vicki Shamion, Vice President - Public Relations, (262) 703-1464


