FILE:KSS/KSS-8K-20110106162654.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment
.
of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
A.
Amended and Restated Employment Agreements with Donald A. Brennan and John
M. Worthington
On January 5, 2011, Kohl's Corporation (the "Company") entered into an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with both Messrs. Brennan and Worthington which were effective as of December 1, 2010.
The amended and restated agreements are substantially similar to the form of amended and restated agreements to which Messrs. Brennan and Worthington were previously party, except for certain updates and modifications, including updating their titles to Chief Merchandising Officer and Chief Administrative Officer, respectively, and addressing issues regarding post-employment healthcare benefits.
B.
Employment Agreements with Peggy Eskenasi and Wesley S. McDonald
On January 5, 2011, the Company entered into Employment Agreements with Ms. Eskenasi and Mr. McDonald which were effective as of December 1, 2010.  The Employment Agreements set forth the terms of their employment, including the following:
the term of each agreement is three years, extended on a daily basis until either party notifies the other that the term shall no longer be so extended;
Ms. Eskenasi's and Mr. McDonald's annual salary shall be $800,000, subject to adjustment from time to time as determined by the Company's Board of Directors;
each executive shall be eligible for participation in health plans, incentive plans, and other benefit plans and perquisites as we may establish for senior executives from time to time; and
the employment agreements specify the Company's and the executives' respective rights and obligations upon a voluntary or involuntary termination of the executives' employment, including any termination following a change of control.
The foregoing descriptions of the Amended and Restated Employment Agreements and the Employment Agreements do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to such agreements, copies of which are attached as exhibits to this filing and incorporated herein by reference.  
Item 9.01.
.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  January 5, 2011
KOHL'S CORPORATION
By:
/s/ Richard D. Schepp                                    
Richard D. Schepp
Executive Vice President
General Counsel and Secretary

Exhibit 10.1
THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is executed as of this 1 day of December, 2010, by and between Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and Kohl's Corporation (collectively referred to in this Agreement as "Company") and Donald A. Brennan ("Executive").  
st
The Company and Executive entered into an employment agreement dated as of September 10, 2007, as amended on November 17, 2008 and September 1, 2009  (the "Original Agreement"), whereby Company and Executive agreed to certain aspects of their relationship during and after the period in which Executive is employed by the Company;
The parties believe it is in their best interests to amend and restate the Original Agreement as set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements and covenants contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged by the Company and Executive ("Parties"), the Parties agree as follows:
1.1
.  The Company employs Executive, and Executive accepts employment by the Company, for the three (3) year period commencing on December 1, 2010 (the "Initial Term"), subject to earlier termination as hereinafter set forth in Article III, below.  This Agreement shall be automatically extended for one (1) day each day during the term (the Initial Term as so extended, the "Renewal Term") unless either party shall give the other a written notice of intention not to renew, in which case this Agreement shall terminate as of the end of the Initial Term or said Renewal Term, as applicable or unless this Agreement is earlier terminated as set forth in Article III, below.  If this Agreement is extended, the terms of this Agreement during such Renewal Term shall be the same as the terms in effect immediately prior to s uch extension (including the early termination provisions set forth in Article III, below), subject to any such changes or modifications as mutually may be agreed between the parties as evidenced in a written instrument signed by both the Company and Executive.  If Executive's employment is terminated for any reason specified in Section 3.1, below, after either party has provided a notice of non-renewal under this Section 1.1, such termination will be treated as a termination under the applicable provision of Section 3.1 and not as a termination due to non-renewal under this Section 1.1.
Term of Employment
1.2
.  Executive shall be employed in the position of Chief Merchandising Officer, and shall be subject to the authority of, and shall report to, the Company's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and/orBoard of Directors (the "Board").  Executive's duties and responsibilities shall include all those customarily attendant to the position of Chief Merchandising Officer and such other duties and responsibilities as may be assigned from time to time by Employee's supervisor and/or the Company's Board.  Executive shall devote Executive's entire
Position and Duties
business time, attention and energies exclusively to the business interests of the Company while employed by the Company except as otherwise specifically approved in writing by Employee's supervisor and/or the Company's Board.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, Executive may not participate on the board of directors or any similar governing body of any for-profit entity other than the Company, unless first approved in writing by the Company's Board.  
 
2.1
.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, the Company shall pay Executive an annual base salary as described in Exhibit A (a copy of which is attached hereto and incorporated herein), payable in accordance with the normal payroll practices and schedule of the Company ("Base Salary").  The Base Salary shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as determined by the Board.
Base Salary
2.2
.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, Executive will be eligible to participate in the plans, programs and policies including, without limitation, group medical insurance, fringe benefits, paid vacation, expense reimbursement and incentive pay plans, which the Company makes available to senior executives of the Company in accordance with the eligibility requirements, terms and conditions of such plans, programs and policies in effect from time to time.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company may amend, modify or terminate any of such plans, programs and policies at any time at its discretion.
Benefit Plans and Fringe Benefits
2.3
.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, Executive may be eligible to participate in stock option, phantom stock, restricted stock or other similar equity incentive plans or programs which the Company may establish from time to time.  The terms of any such plans or programs, and Executive's eligibility to participate in them, shall be established by the Board at its sole discretion.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company may amend, modify or terminate any of such plans or programs at any time at its discretion.
Equity Plans or Programs
In no event will the reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided by the Company pursuant to this Agreement in one taxable year affect the amount of reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided in any other taxable year, nor will Executive's right to reimbursement or in-kind benefits be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.  Further, any reimbursements to be provided by the Company pursuant to this Agreement shall be paid to the Executive no later than the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Executive incurs the expenses.
3.1
.
Right to Terminate; Automatic Termination
(a)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, the Company may terminate Executive's employment and all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement at any time and for any reason.
Termination Without Cause
(b)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, the Company may terminate Executive's employment and all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement at any time for Cause (defined below) by giving notice to Executive stating the basis for such termination, effective immediately upon giving such notice or at such other time thereafter as the Company may designate.  "Cause" shall mean any of the following:  (i) Executive's continuous failure to substantially perform Executive's duties after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to Executive that specifically identifies the manner in which the Company believes that Executive has not substantially performed his/her duties, and Executive has failed to demonstrate substantial efforts to resume substantial performance of Executive's duties on a continuous basis within sixty (60) calendar days after receiving such demand; (ii) Executive's violation of a material provision of "Kohl's Ethical Standards and Responsibilities" which is materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise; (iii) any dishonest or fraudulent conduct which results, or is intended to result, in gain to Executive or Executive's personal enrichment at the expense of the Company; (iv) any material breach of this Agreement by Executive after a written notice of such breach is delivered to Executive that specifically identifies the manner in which the Company believes that Executive has breached this Agreement, and Executive has failed to cure such breach within thirty (30) calendar days after receiving such demand; provided, however, that no cure period shall be required for breaches of Articles IV, V, VI or VII, below, of this Agreement; or (v) conviction of Executive, after all applicable rights of appeal have been exhausted or waived, of a ny crime.  Notwithstanding the conviction of a crime as described in the preceding subsection (v), the Board, in its sole discretion, may waive such termination in the event it determines that such crime does not discredit the Company or is not detrimental to the Company's reputation or goodwill, and any decision by the Board with respect to such waiver shall be final.
Termination For Cause
(c)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, Executive may terminate Executive's employment and all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement at any time for Good Reason (defined below) by giving written notice to the Company stating the basis for such termination, effective immediately upon giving such notice.  "Good Reason" shall mean any of the following: (i) a material reduction in Executive's status, title, position, responsibilities or Base Salary; (ii) any material breach by the Company of this Agreement; (iii) any purported termination of the Executive's employment for Cause which does not comply with the terms of this Agreement; or (iv) a mandatory relocation of Executive's employment with the Company from the Milwaukee, Wisconsin area, except for travel reasonably required in the performance of Executive 46;s duties and responsibilities; provided, however, that no termination shall be for Good Reason until Executive has provided the Company with written notice of the conduct alleged to have caused Good Reason and at least thirty (30) calendar days have elapsed after the Company's receipt of such written notice from Executive, during which the Company has failed to demonstrate substantial efforts to cure any such alleged conduct.
Termination for Good Reason
(d)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, Executive's employment and the Company's obligations under this Agreement shall terminate automatically, effective immediately and without any notice being necessary, upon Executive's death or a determination of Disability of Executive.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" means the Executive: (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, or (ii) has been, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result
Termination by Death or Disability
in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Company.   A determination of Disability shall be made by the Company, which may, at its sole discretion, consult with a physician or physicians satisfactory to the Company, and Executive shall cooperate with any efforts to make such determination.  Any such determination shall be conclusive and binding on the parties.  Any determination of Disability under this Section 3.1(d) is not intended to alter any benefits any party may be entitled to receive under any disability insurance policy carried by either the Company or Executive with respect to Executive, which benefits shall be governed solely by the terms of any su ch insurance policy.
(e)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, Executive's employment and the Company's obligations under this Agreement shall terminate automatically, effective immediately upon Executive's provision of written notice to the Company of Executive's resignation from employment with the Company or at such other time as may be mutually agreed between the parties following the provision of such notice.
Termination by Resignation
(f)  
.  A termination of employment under this Agreement shall only occur to the extent Executive has a "separation from service" from Company in accordance with Section 409A of the Code.  Under Section 409A, a "separation from service" occurs when Executive and the Company reasonably anticipate that no further services will be performed by Executive after a certain date or that the level of bona fide services Executive would perform after such date (whether as an employee or as a consultant) would permanently decrease to no more than 20 percent of the average level of bona fide services performed by Executive over the immediately preceding 36-month period.
Separation of Service
3.2
.
Rights Upon Termination
(a)
.  If Executive's employment is terminated by the Company pursuant to Section 3.1(b), above, by Executive pursuant to Section 3.1(e), above, or due to non-renewal by Executive pursuant to Section 1.1, above, Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (i) any unpaid Base Salary with respect to the period prior to the effective date of termination together with payment of any vacation that Executive has accrued but not used through the date of termination; (ii) reimbursement of expenses to which Executive is entitled under Section 2.2, above; and (iii) Executive's unpaid bonus, if any, attributable to any complete fiscal year of the Company ended before the date of termination (in the aggregate, th e "Accrued Benefits").  Any such bonus payment shall be made at the same time as any such bonus is paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company.  Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(a), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive ceases on the effective date of termination, and any unvested stock options lapse and are forfeited immediately upon the effective date of termination.
Termination By Company for Cause, By Executive Other Than For Good Reason or By Executive's Non-Renewal
(b)
.  If Executive's employment is terminated due to non-renewal by the Company pursuant to Section 1.1, above, or due to Executive's death pursuant to Section 3.1(d), above, Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (i) Accrued Benefits; (ii) Health
Termination By Company's Non-Renewal or Due to Executive's Death
Insurance Continuation (defined below); and (iii) a share of any bonus attributable to the fiscal year of the Company during which the effective date of termination occurs determined as follows:  the product of (x) the average bonuses paid or payable, including any amounts that were deferred in respect of the three (3) fiscal years immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the effective date of termination occurs (the "Recent Average Bonus") and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days completed in the fiscal year in which the effective date of termination occurs through the effective date of termination and the denominator of which is three hundred sixty-five (365) (the "Pro Rata Bonus").  Such Pro Rata Bonus shall be paid at the same time as any such bonuses are paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company.  Executive shall also be entitled to a severance payment equal to fifty percent (50%) of Executive's Base Salary payable for one (1) year following the effective date of termination pursuant to normal payroll practices.  Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(b), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive shall cease on the effective date of termination, and any unvested stock options shall lapse and be forfeited as of such date; provided, however, that if Executive's termination is due to Executive's death, all Company stock options granted to Executive shall immediately vest upon the date of Executive's death.
(c)
.  If Executive's employment is terminated due to Executive's Disability pursuant to Section 3.1(d), above, Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (i) Accrued Benefits; (ii) Health Insurance Continuation (defined below); (iii) the Pro Rata Bonus; plus; (iv) a Severance Benefit.  The Pro Rata Bonus payment shall be made at the same time as any such bonuses are paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company.  For purposes of this Section 3.2(c), "Severance Benefit" means six (6) months of Base Salary, payable in equal installments during the six (6) month period following Executive's exhaustion of any short-term disability benefits provided by the Company, in accordance with the normal payroll practices and schedule of the Company.  The amount of suc h Severance Benefit shall be reduced by any compensation (including any payments from the Company or any benefit plans, policies or programs sponsored by the Company) earned or received by Executive during the six (6) month period following the date of termination and the six (6) month period during which Executive receives the Severance Benefit, and Executive agrees to reimburse the Company for the amount of any such reduction.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that, upon the cessation, if any, of such Disability during the period of the payment of the Severance Benefit, he/she has an obligation to use his/her reasonable efforts to secure other employment consistent with Executive's status and experience and that his/her failure to do so, as determined at the sole discretion of the Board, is a breach of this Agreement.  Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(c), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive shall cease on the effective date of termination, and any unvested stock opt ions shall lapse and be forfeited as of such date.
Termination Due to Disability
(d)
.
Termination By Company Without Cause or By Executive for Good Reason
i.
.  If Executive's employment is terminated by the Company pursuant to Section 3.1(a), above, or by Executive pursuant to Section 3.1(c), above, and such termination does not occur three (3) months prior to or within one (1) year after the occurrence of a Change of Control (defined below), Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (A) Accrued Benefits; (B) a Severance Payment (defined below); (C) the Pro Rata Bonus; provided, however, that the Pro Rata Bonus payment shall be made at the same time as any such bonuses are paid to other
No Change of Control
similarly situated executives of the Company; (D) outplacement services from an outplacement service company of the Company's choosing at a cost not to exceed Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000.00), payable directly to such outplacement service company ("Outplacement Services"); and (E) Health Insurance Continuation (defined below).  
For purposes of this Section 3.2(d)(i), "Severance Payment" means an amount equal to the sum of:
(x) Executive's Base Salary for the remainder of the then current Initial Term or Renewal Term of this Agreement, but not to exceed two and nine-tenths (2.9) years; plus
(y) an amount equal to the average (calculated at the sole discretion of the Company) of the three (3) most recent annual incentive compensation plan payments, if any, paid to Executive prior to the effective date of termination.                                                      
The Severance Payment shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum within thirty (30) days after the effective date of termination, subject to Section 3.2(e) below.
Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(d)(i), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive prior to the date of termination shall continue as scheduled until the term of this Agreement expires, after which such vesting ceases and any unvested stock options lapse and are forfeited.
ii.
.  If Executive's employment is terminated by the Company pursuant to Section 3.1(a), above, or by the Executive pursuant to Section 3.1(c), above, and such termination occurs within three (3) months prior to or one (1) year after the occurrence of a Change of Control (defined below), Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (A) Accrued Benefits; (B) a Severance Payment (defined below); (C) the Pro Rata Bonus; provided, however, that such bonus payments shall be made at the same time as any such bonuses are paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company; (D) Health Insurance Continuation (defined below) for the period of time equal to the remainder of the then-current Renewal Term, but not to exceed two and nine-tenths (2.9) years following the effective date of Executive's terminat ion; and (E) Outplacement Services.  
Change of Control
For purposes of this Section 3.2(d)(ii), "Severance Payment" means an amount equal to the sum of:
(x) Executive's Base Salary for the period of time equal to the remainder of the then-current Renewal Term, but not to exceed two and nine-tenths (2.9) years; plus
(y) an amount equal to the average (calculated at the sole discretion of the Company) of the three (3) most recent annual incentive compensation plan payments, if any, paid to Executive prior to the effective date of termination times the number of years, rounded to the nearest tenth, remaining in the then-current Renewal Term, but not to exceed two and nine-tenths (2.9).  
The Severance Payment shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum within thirty (30) days after the effective date of termination, subject to Section 3.2(e) below.
Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(d)(ii), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive prior to termination shall occur immediately upon the date of termination.
iii.
.  "Change of Control" means the occurrence of (1) the acquisition (other than from the Company) by any person, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act")), other than the Company, a subsidiary of the Company or any employee benefit plan or plans sponsored by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, directly or indirectly, of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Exchange Act Rule 13d-3) of thirty-three percent (33%) or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or voting securities representing thirty-three percent (33%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities ordinarily entitled to vote in the election of directors unless the Incumbent Board (def ined below), before such acquisition or within thirty (30) days thereafter, deems such acquisition not to be a Change of Control; or (2) individuals who, as of the date of this Agreement, constitute the Board (as of such date, "Incumbent Board") ceasing for any reason to constitute at least a majority of such Board; provided, however, that any person becoming a director subsequent to the date of this Agreement whose election, or nomination for election by the shareholders of the Company, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be for purposes of this Agreement, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest which was (or, if threatened, would have been) subject to Exchange Act Rule 14a-12(c); or (3) the consummation of any merger, consolidation or share exchange o f the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger, consolidation or share exchange which results in more than sixty percent (60%) of the outstanding shares of the common stock, and voting securities representing more than sixty percent (60%) of the combined voting power of then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, of the surviving, consolidated or resulting corporation being then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by the persons who were the Company's shareholders immediately prior to such transaction in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such transaction, of the Company's then outstanding Common Stock or then outstanding voting securities, as the case may be; or (4) the consummation of any liquidation or dissolution of the Company or a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
Definition  Change of Control
Following the occurrence of an event which is not a Change of Control whereby there is a successor company to the Company, or if there is no such successor whereby the Company is not the surviving corporation in a merger or consolidation, the surviving corporation or successor holding company (as the case may be), for purposes of this Agreement, shall thereafter be referred to as the Company.
(iv)
.  For purposes of Sections 3.2(b), 3.2(c) and 3.2(d) above, the term "Health Insurance Continuation" means that in the event the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated for any reason other than (A) a termination
Definition  Health Insurance Continuation
for Cause, or (B) a voluntary termination by the Executive for any reason other than "Good Reason" or other than approved by the Board of Directors of the Company, the Company shall continue to provide the Health Insurance Benefits.  In the event of Executive's death, the Health Insurance Benefits shall continue to be provided to Executive's Eligible Dependants, in each case for as long as each individual would have continued to qualify as an eligible dependant under the terms of the applicable insurance and medical plans had Executive been living.  
Company's responsibility to provide Health Insurance Continuation shall at all times be contingent upon:
(1)
the Health Insurance Benefits being reasonably available to the Company with respect to Executive and Executive's Eligible Dependants, as the case may be;  and
(2)
Following the termination of Executive's employment with the Company, Executive or Executive's Eligible Dependants, as the case may be, shall reimburse the Company for all premiums paid for Executive's Health Insurance Benefits, as determined by the Company in good faith from time to time.  The Company shall provide Executive a quarterly invoice for such reimbursement, and amounts due hereunder may be withheld from other amounts payable to Executive.
Any Health Insurance Continuation provided for herein will cease forever on the date on which Executive becomes eligible for health insurance coverage under another employer's group health insurance plan, and, within five (5) calendar days of Executive becoming eligible for health insurance coverage under another employer's group health insurance plan, Executive agrees to inform the Company of such fact in writing.
In no event will the Health Insurance Continuation to be provided by the Company pursuant to this Agreement in one taxable year affect the amount of Health Insurance Continuation to be provided in any other taxable year, nor will Executive's right to Health Insurance Continuation be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
(e)
.  If amounts paid to Executive pursuant to any Subsection of Section 3.2 would be subject to a penalty under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code because Executive is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), such payments will be delayed until a date which is six (6) months after Executive's termination of employment, at which point any such delayed payments will be paid to Executive in a lump sum.  Further, to the extent amount any amounts payable to Executive pursuant to any Subsection of Section 3.2 are determined, after consultation with Company counsel, to be required to be paid in accordance with the payment terms under the Original Agreement in order for Executive to avoid penalties under Section 409A, such amounts shall be payable in accordance with the payment terms under the Original Agreem ent.  Any amounts required to be paid pursuant to the terms of the Original Agreement as described in the prior sentence shall accrue interest at the rate applicable to 5-year United States Treasury notes as of the effective date of termination during the period the payments are unpaid and such interest shall be paid by the Company to the Executive together with each installment payment.  In no event, however, shall the total amount payable to
Delay of Payments if Required by Section 409A
Executive under any Subsection of this Section 3.2
be subject to the offset described in the Original Agreement for compensation earned or received by Executive from other sources.   
3.3
.  Upon termination of employment, for whatever reason, or upon request by the Company at any time, Executive shall immediately return to the Company all documents, records, and materials belonging and/or relating to the Company, and all copies of all such materials.  Upon termination of employment, for whatever reason, or upon request by the Company at any time, Executive further agrees to destroy such records maintained by Executive on Executive's own computer equipment.
Return of Records
3.4
.  As a condition to the receipt of any amounts or benefits after termination of employment for whatever reason, Executive, or his personal representative, shall be required to execute a written release agreement in a form satisfactory to the Company containing, among other items, a general release of claims against the Company and, as an additional condition to the receipt of such amounts or benefits, Executive shall not have exercised any right to revoke such release agreement during any applicable rescission period.
Release
4.1
.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that, as an integral part of its business, the Company has expended a great deal of time, money and effort to develop and maintain confidential, proprietary and trade secret information to compete against similar businesses and that this information, if misused or disclosed, would be harmful to the Company's business and competitive position in the marketplace.  Executive further acknowledges and agrees that in Executive's position with the Company, the Company provides Executive with access to its confidential, proprietary and trade secret information, strategies and other confidential business information that would be of considerable value to competitive businesses.  As a result, Executive acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this Article IV are reasonable, appropriate and necessary for the protection of the Company's confidential, proprietary and trade secret information.  For purposes of this Article IV, the term "Company" means Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and its parent companies, subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Acknowledgments
4.2.
.During the term of Executive's employment under this Agreement, Executive will not directly or indirectly use or disclose any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets (defined below) except in the interest and for the benefit of the Company.  After the termination, for whatever reason, of Executive's employment with the Company, Executive will not directly or indirectly use or disclose any Trade Secrets unless such information ceases to be deemed a Trade Secret by means of one of the exceptions set forth in Section 4.3(c), below.  For a period of two (2) years following termination, for whatever reason, of Executive's employment with the Company, Executive will not directly or indirectly use or disclose any Confidential Information, unless such information ceases to be deemed Confidential Information by means of one of the exceptions set forth in Section 4.3(c), below.
Confidentiality Obligations
 
4.3
.
Definitions
(a)
.  The term "Trade Secret" shall have that meaning set forth under applicable law.  This term is deemed by the Company to specifically include all of Company's computer source, object or other code and any confidential information received from a third party with whom the Company has a binding agreement restricting disclosure of such confidential information.
Trade Secret
(b)
.  The term "Confidential Information" shall mean all non-Trade Secret or proprietary information of the Company which has value to the Company and which is not known to the public or the Company's competitors, generally, including, but not limited to, strategic growth plans, pricing policies and strategies, employment records and policies, operational methods, marketing plans and strategies, advertising plans and strategies, product development techniques and plans, business acquisition and divestiture plans, resources, sources of supply, suppliers and supplier contractual relationships and terms, technical processes, designs, inventions, research programs and results, source code, short-term and long-range planning, projections, information systems, sales objectives and performance, profits and profit margins, and seasonal plans, goals and objectives.
Confidential Information
(c)
.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the terms "Trade Secret" and "Confidential Information" shall not include, and the obligations set forth in this Article IV shall not apply to, any information which: (i) can be demonstrated by Executive to have been known by Executive prior to Executive's employment by the Company; (ii) is or becomes generally available to the public through no act or omission of Executive; (iii) is obtained by Executive in good faith from a third party who discloses such information to Executive on a non-confidential basis without violating any obligation of confidentiality or secrecy relating to the information disclosed; or (iv) is independently developed by Executive outside the scope of Executive's employment without use of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.
Exclusions
5.1
.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company is one of the leading retail companies in the United States, with department stores throughout the United States, and that the Company compensates executives like Executive to, among other things, develop and maintain valuable goodwill and relationships on the Company's behalf (including relationships with customers, suppliers, vendors, employees and other associates) and to maintain business information for the Company's exclusive ownership and use.  As a result, Executive acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this Article V are reasonable, appropriate and necessary for the protection of the Company's goodwill, customer, supplier, vendor, employee and other associate relationships and Confidential Information and Trade Secrets.  Executive further acknowledges and agrees that the restric tions contained in this Article V will not pose an undue hardship on Executive or Executive's ability to find gainful employment.  For purposes of this Article V, the term "Company" means Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and its parent companies, subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Acknowledgments
5.2
.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term and for the one (1) year period following termination, for whatever reason, of Executive's employment
Restricted Services Obligation
with the Company, Executive will not, directly or indirectly, provide Restricted Services (defined below) for or on behalf of any Competitive Business (defined below) or directly or indirectly, provide any Competitive Business with any advice or counsel in the nature of the Restricted Services.
5.3
.  For purposes of this Article V, the following are defined terms:
Definitions
(a)
.  "Restricted Services" shall mean services of any kind or character comparable to those Executive provided to the Company during the eighteen (18) month period immediately preceding Executive's last date of employment with the Company.
Restricted Services
(b)
.  "Competitive Business" shall mean each of the following entities:  J.C. Penney Company, Inc., Macy's, Inc., The Gap, Inc., Target Corporation, Sears Holdings Corporation, and any successors, subsidiaries or affiliates of these entities engaged in the operation of national retail department stores.
Competitive Business
6.1
.  Executive shall immediately disclose to the Company a list of all inventions, patents, applications for patent, copyrights, and applications for copyright in which Executive currently holds an interest.  The Company will own, and Executive hereby assigns to the Company, all rights in all Business Ideas.  All Business Ideas which are or form the basis for copyrightable works shall be considered "works for hire" as that term is defined by United States Copyright Law.  Any works that are not found to be "works for hire" are hereby assigned to the Company.  While employed by the Company and for one (1) year thereafter, Executive will promptly disclose all Business Ideas to the Company and execute all documents which the Company may reasonably require to perfect its patent, copyright and other rights to such Business Ideas throughout t he world.  After Executive's employment with the Company terminates, for whatever reason, Executive will cooperate with the Company to assist the Company in perfecting its rights to any Business Ideas including executing all documents which the Company may reasonably require.  For purposes of this Article VI, the term "Company" means Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and its parent companies, subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Assignment of Business Ideas
6.2
.  The term "Business Ideas" as used in this Agreement means all ideas, inventions, data, software, developments and copyrightable works, whether or not patentable or registrable, which Executive originates, discovers or develops, either alone or jointly with others while Executive is employed by the Company and for one (1) year thereafter and which are (a) related to any business known by Executive to be engaged in or contemplated by the Company, (b) originated, discovered or developed during Executive's working hours during his employment with the Company, or (c) originated, discovered or developed in whole or in part using materials, labor, facilities, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets, or equipment furnished by the Company.
Business Ideas
6.3
.  Executive agrees not to engage at any time in any form of conduct or make any statements or representations, or direct any other person or entity to engage in any conduct or make any statements or representations, that disparage, criticize or otherwise impair the reputation of the Company, its affiliates, parents and subsidiaries and their respective past and
Non-Disparagement
present officers, directors, stockholders, partners, members, agents and employees.  Nothing contained in this Section 6.3 shall preclude Executive from providing truthful testimony or statements pursuant to subpoena or other legal process or in response to inquiries from any government agency or entity.
During the term of Executive's employment with the Company and for one (1) year thereafter, Executive shall not directly or indirectly encourage any Company employee to terminate his/her employment with the Company unless Executive does so in the course of performing his duties for the Company and such encouragement is in the Company's best interests.  For purposes of this Article VII, the term "Company" means Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and its parent companies, subsidiaries and other affiliates.
8.1
.  Any and all notices, consents, documents or communications provided for in this Agreement shall be given in writing and shall be personally delivered, mailed by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) or sent by courier, confirmed by receipt, and addressed as follows (or to such other address as the addressed party may have substituted by notice pursuant to this Section 8.1):
Notices
(a) If to the Company:
Kohl's Department Stores, Inc.
N56 W17000 Ridgewood Drive
Menomonee Falls, WI  53051
Attn:  Richard D. Schepp, General Counsel
(b) If to Executive:
Any notice to be given to the Executive may be addressed to him at the address as it appears on the payroll records of the Company or any subsidiary thereof.
Such notice, consent, document or communication shall be deemed given upon personal delivery or receipt at the address of the party stated above or at any other address specified by such party to the other party in writing, except that if delivery is refused or cannot be made for any reason, then such notice shall be deemed given on the third day after it is sent.
8.2
.
Executive Disclosures and Acknowledgments
(a)
.  Attached as Exhibit B is a list of prior obligations (written and oral), such as confidentiality agreements or covenants restricting future employment or consulting, that Executive has entered into which may restrict Executive's ability to perform Executive's duties as an employee for the Company.
Prior Obligations
(b)
.  Executive certifies that Executive has not, and will not, disclose or use during Executive's time as an employee of the Company, any confidential information which Executive acquired as a result of any previous employment or under a contractual obligation of confidentiality or secrecy before Executive became an employee of the Company.
Confidential Information of Others
(c)
.  By entering into this Agreement, Executive acknowledges the nature of the Company's business and the nature and scope of the restrictions set forth in Articles IV, V and VII, above, including specifically Wisconsin's Uniform Trade Secrets Act, presently  134.90,  Executive acknowledges and represents that the scope of such restrictions are appropriate, necessary and reasonable for the protection of the Company's business, goodwill, and property rights.  Executive further acknowledges that the restrictions imposed will not prevent Executive from earning a living in the event of, and after, termination, for whatever reason, of Executive's employment with the Company.  Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent Executive, after termination of Executive's employment with the Company, from using general skills and kno wledge gained while employed by the Company.
Scope of Restrictions
Wis. Stats.
(d)
.  Executive agrees, during the term of any restriction contained in Articles IV, V and VII, above, to disclose such provisions to any future or prospective employer.  Executive further agrees that the Company may send a copy of this Agreement to, or otherwise make the provisions hereof known to, any such employer.
Prospective Employers
8.3
.  Notwithstanding any termination of this Agreement, the Executive, in consideration of his employment hereunder, shall remain bound by the provisions of this Agreement which specifically relate to periods, activities or obligations upon or subsequent to the termination of the Executive's employment.
Effect of Termination
8.4
. Executive agrees that, with the exception of disclosures pursuant to Section 8.2(d), above, Executive will not disclose, directly or indirectly, any non-public terms of this Agreement to any third party; provided, however, that following Executive's obtaining a promise of confidentiality for the benefit of the Company from Executive's tax preparer, accountant, attorney and spouse, Executive may disclose such terms to such of these individuals who have made such a promise of confidentiality.  This provision shall not prevent Executive from disclosing such matters in testifying in any hearing, trial or other legal proceeding where Executive is required to do so.
Confidentiality of Agreement
8.5
.  Executive agrees to take all reasonable steps during and after Executive's employment with the Company to make himself/herself available to and to cooperate with the Company, at its request, in connection with any legal proceedings or other matters in which it is or may become involved.  Following Executive's employment with the Company, the Company
Cooperation
agrees to pay reasonable compensation to Executive and to pay all reasonable expenses incurred by Executive in connection with Executive's obligations under this Section 8.5.
8.6
.  In the event that Executive breaches any provision of this Agreement, Executive agrees that the Company may suspend all payments to Executive under this Agreement (including any Severance Payment), recover from Executive any damages suffered as a result of such breach and recover from Executive any reasonable attorneys' fees or costs it incurs as a result of such breach.  In addition, Executive agrees that the Company may seek injunctive or other equitable relief, without the necessity of posting bond, as a result of a breach by Executive of any provision of this Agreement.
Effect of Breach
8.7
.  This Agreement contains the entire understanding and the full and complete agreement of the parties and supersedes and replaces any prior understandings and agreements among the parties, with respect to the subject matter hereof, including without limitation the Original Agreement.
Entire Agreement
8.8
.  The headings of sections and paragraphs of this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of its provisions.
Headings
8.9
.  Execution of this Agreement is a condition of Executive's continued employment with the Company and Executive's continued employment by the Company, and the benefits provided to Executive under this Agreement, constitute the consideration for Executive's undertakings hereunder.
Consideration
8.10
.  This Agreement may be altered, amended or modified only in a writing, signed by both of the Parties hereto.
Amendment
8.11
.  This Agreement and the rights and duties set forth herein may not be assigned by Executive, but may be assigned by the Company, in whole or in part.  This Agreement shall be binding on and inure to the benefit of each party and such party's respective heirs, legal representatives, successors and assigns.
Assignability
8.12
.  If any court of competent jurisdiction determines that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable, then such invalidity or unenforceability shall have no effect on the other provisions hereof, which shall remain valid, binding and enforceable and in full force and effect, and such invalid or unenforceable provision shall be construed in a manner so as to give the maximum valid and enforceable effect to the intent of the Parties expressed therein.
Severability
8.13
.  The waiver by either party of the breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by either party.
Waiver of Breach
8.14
.  This Agreement shall be governed by the internal laws of the State of Wisconsin, without regard to any rules of construction concerning the draftsman hereof.
Governing Law; Construction
8.15
.  The Company and Executive intend that any amounts or benefits payable or provided under this Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the treasury regulations relating thereto so as not to subject Executive
Section 409A Compliance
to the payment of the tax, interest and any tax penalty which may be imposed under Code Section 409A.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with such intent.  In furtherance thereof, to the extent that any provision hereof would otherwise result in Executive being subject to payment of tax, interest and tax penalty under Code Section 409A, the Company and Executive agree to amend this Agreement in a manner that brings this Agreement into compliance with Code Section 409A and preserves to the maximum extent possible the economic value of the relevant payment or benefit under this Agreement to Executive.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year written above.
:
KOHL'S DEPARTMENT STORES, INC.
By: _____________________
/s/ KEVIN MANSELL
       
Kevin Mansell,
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
:
EXECUTIVE
                   ________________
/s/ DONALD A. BRENNAN
Donald A. Brennan
 
Executive's annual base compensation as of the date of this Agreement is Nine Hundred Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($900,000).                  .

Exhibit 10.2
THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is executed as of this 1 day of December, 2010, by and between Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and Kohl's Corporation (collectively referred to in this Agreement as "Company") and John M. Worthington  ("Executive").  
st
The Company and Executive entered into an employment agreement dated as of September 10, 2007, as amended on November 17, 2008 and September 1, 2009  (the "Original Agreement"), whereby Company and Executive agreed to certain aspects of their relationship during and after the period in which Executive is employed by the Company;
The parties believe it is in their best interests to amend and restate the Original Agreement as set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements and covenants contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged by the Company and Executive ("Parties"), the Parties agree as follows:
1.1
.  The Company employs Executive, and Executive accepts employment by the Company, for the three (3) year period commencing on December 1, 2010 (the "Initial Term"), subject to earlier termination as hereinafter set forth in Article III, below.  This Agreement shall be automatically extended for one (1) day each day during the term (the Initial Term as so extended, the "Renewal Term") unless either party shall give the other a written notice of intention not to renew, in which case this Agreement shall terminate as of the end of the Initial Term or said Renewal Term, as applicable or unless this Agreement is earlier terminated as set forth in Article III, below.  If this Agreement is extended, the terms of this Agreement during such Renewal Term shall be the same as the terms in effect immediately prior to s uch extension (including the early termination provisions set forth in Article III, below), subject to any such changes or modifications as mutually may be agreed between the parties as evidenced in a written instrument signed by both the Company and Executive.  If Executive's employment is terminated for any reason specified in Section 3.1, below, after either party has provided a notice of non-renewal under this Section 1.1, such termination will be treated as a termination under the applicable provision of Section 3.1 and not as a termination due to non-renewal under this Section 1.1.
Term of Employment
1.2
.  Executive shall be employed in the position of Chief Administrative Officer, and shall be subject to the authority of, and shall report to, the Company's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and/orBoard of Directors (the "Board").  Executive's duties and responsibilities shall include all those customarily attendant to the position of Chief Administrative Officer and such other duties and responsibilities as may be assigned from time to time by Employee's supervisor and/or the Company's Board.  Executive shall devote Executive's entire
Position and Duties
business time, attention and energies exclusively to the business interests of the Company while employed by the Company except as otherwise specifically approved in writing by Employee's supervisor and/or the Company's Board.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, Executive may not participate on the board of directors or any similar governing body of any for-profit entity other than the Company, unless first approved in writing by the Company's Board.  
 
2.1
.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, the Company shall pay Executive an annual base salary as described in Exhibit A (a copy of which is attached hereto and incorporated herein), payable in accordance with the normal payroll practices and schedule of the Company ("Base Salary").  The Base Salary shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as determined by the Board.
Base Salary
2.2
.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, Executive will be eligible to participate in the plans, programs and policies including, without limitation, group medical insurance, fringe benefits, paid vacation, expense reimbursement and incentive pay plans, which the Company makes available to senior executives of the Company in accordance with the eligibility requirements, terms and conditions of such plans, programs and policies in effect from time to time.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company may amend, modify or terminate any of such plans, programs and policies at any time at its discretion.
Benefit Plans and Fringe Benefits
2.3
.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, Executive may be eligible to participate in stock option, phantom stock, restricted stock or other similar equity incentive plans or programs which the Company may establish from time to time.  The terms of any such plans or programs, and Executive's eligibility to participate in them, shall be established by the Board at its sole discretion.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company may amend, modify or terminate any of such plans or programs at any time at its discretion.
Equity Plans or Programs
In no event will the reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided by the Company pursuant to this Agreement in one taxable year affect the amount of reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided in any other taxable year, nor will Executive's right to reimbursement or in-kind benefits be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.  Further, any reimbursements to be provided by the Company pursuant to this Agreement shall be paid to the Executive no later than the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Executive incurs the expenses.
3.1
.
Right to Terminate; Automatic Termination
(a)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, the Company may terminate Executive's employment and all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement at any time and for any reason.
Termination Without Cause
(b)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, the Company may terminate Executive's employment and all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement at any time for Cause (defined below) by giving notice to Executive stating the basis for such termination, effective immediately upon giving such notice or at such other time thereafter as the Company may designate.  "Cause" shall mean any of the following:  (i) Executive's continuous failure to substantially perform Executive's duties after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to Executive that specifically identifies the manner in which the Company believes that Executive has not substantially performed his/her duties, and Executive has failed to demonstrate substantial efforts to resume substantial performance of Executive's duties on a continuous basis within sixty (60) calendar days after receiving such demand; (ii) Executive's violation of a material provision of "Kohl's Ethical Standards and Responsibilities" which is materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise; (iii) any dishonest or fraudulent conduct which results, or is intended to result, in gain to Executive or Executive's personal enrichment at the expense of the Company; (iv) any material breach of this Agreement by Executive after a written notice of such breach is delivered to Executive that specifically identifies the manner in which the Company believes that Executive has breached this Agreement, and Executive has failed to cure such breach within thirty (30) calendar days after receiving such demand; provided, however, that no cure period shall be required for breaches of Articles IV, V, VI or VII, below, of this Agreement; or (v) conviction of Executive, after all applicable rights of appeal have been exhausted or waived, of a ny crime.  Notwithstanding the conviction of a crime as described in the preceding subsection (v), the Board, in its sole discretion, may waive such termination in the event it determines that such crime does not discredit the Company or is not detrimental to the Company's reputation or goodwill, and any decision by the Board with respect to such waiver shall be final.
Termination For Cause
(c)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, Executive may terminate Executive's employment and all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement at any time for Good Reason (defined below) by giving written notice to the Company stating the basis for such termination, effective immediately upon giving such notice.  "Good Reason" shall mean any of the following: (i) a material reduction in Executive's status, title, position, responsibilities or Base Salary; (ii) any material breach by the Company of this Agreement; (iii) any purported termination of the Executive's employment for Cause which does not comply with the terms of this Agreement; or (iv) a mandatory relocation of Executive's employment with the Company from the Milwaukee, Wisconsin area, except for travel reasonably required in the performance of Executive 46;s duties and responsibilities; provided, however, that no termination shall be for Good Reason until Executive has provided the Company with written notice of the conduct alleged to have caused Good Reason and at least thirty (30) calendar days have elapsed after the Company's receipt of such written notice from Executive, during which the Company has failed to demonstrate substantial efforts to cure any such alleged conduct.
Termination for Good Reason
(d)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, Executive's employment and the Company's obligations under this Agreement shall terminate automatically, effective immediately and without any notice being necessary, upon Executive's death or a determination of Disability of Executive.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" means the Executive: (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, or (ii) has been, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result
Termination by Death or Disability
in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Company.   A determination of Disability shall be made by the Company, which may, at its sole discretion, consult with a physician or physicians satisfactory to the Company, and Executive shall cooperate with any efforts to make such determination.  Any such determination shall be conclusive and binding on the parties.  Any determination of Disability under this Section 3.1(d) is not intended to alter any benefits any party may be entitled to receive under any disability insurance policy carried by either the Company or Executive with respect to Executive, which benefits shall be governed solely by the terms of any su ch insurance policy.
(e)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, Executive's employment and the Company's obligations under this Agreement shall terminate automatically, effective immediately upon Executive's provision of written notice to the Company of Executive's resignation from employment with the Company or at such other time as may be mutually agreed between the parties following the provision of such notice.
Termination by Resignation
(f)  
.  A termination of employment under this Agreement shall only occur to the extent Executive has a "separation from service" from Company in accordance with Section 409A of the Code.  Under Section 409A, a "separation from service" occurs when Executive and the Company reasonably anticipate that no further services will be performed by Executive after a certain date or that the level of bona fide services Executive would perform after such date (whether as an employee or as a consultant) would permanently decrease to no more than 20 percent of the average level of bona fide services performed by Executive over the immediately preceding 36-month period.
Separation of Service
3.2
.
Rights Upon Termination
(a)
.  If Executive's employment is terminated by the Company pursuant to Section 3.1(b), above, by Executive pursuant to Section 3.1(e), above, or due to non-renewal by Executive pursuant to Section 1.1, above, Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (i) any unpaid Base Salary with respect to the period prior to the effective date of termination together with payment of any vacation that Executive has accrued but not used through the date of termination; (ii) reimbursement of expenses to which Executive is entitled under Section 2.2, above; and (iii) Executive's unpaid bonus, if any, attributable to any complete fiscal year of the Company ended before the date of termination (in the aggregate, th e "Accrued Benefits").  Any such bonus payment shall be made at the same time as any such bonus is paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company.  Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(a), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive ceases on the effective date of termination, and any unvested stock options lapse and are forfeited immediately upon the effective date of termination.
Termination By Company for Cause, By Executive Other Than For Good Reason or By Executive's Non-Renewal
(b)
.  If Executive's employment is terminated due to non-renewal by the Company pursuant to Section 1.1, above, or due to Executive's death pursuant to Section 3.1(d), above, Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (i) Accrued Benefits; (ii) Health
Termination By Company's Non-Renewal or Due to Executive's Death
Insurance Continuation (defined below); and (iii) a share of any bonus attributable to the fiscal year of the Company during which the effective date of termination occurs determined as follows:  the product of (x) the average bonuses paid or payable, including any amounts that were deferred in respect of the three (3) fiscal years immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the effective date of termination occurs (the "Recent Average Bonus") and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days completed in the fiscal year in which the effective date of termination occurs through the effective date of termination and the denominator of which is three hundred sixty-five (365) (the "Pro Rata Bonus").  Such Pro Rata Bonus shall be paid at the same time as any such bonuses are paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company.  Executive shall also be entitled to a severance payment equal to fifty percent (50%) of Executive's Base Salary payable for one (1) year following the effective date of termination pursuant to normal payroll practices.  Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(b), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive shall cease on the effective date of termination, and any unvested stock options shall lapse and be forfeited as of such date; provided, however, that if Executive's termination is due to Executive's death, all Company stock options granted to Executive shall immediately vest upon the date of Executive's death.
(c)
.  If Executive's employment is terminated due to Executive's Disability pursuant to Section 3.1(d), above, Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (i) Accrued Benefits; (ii) Health Insurance Continuation (defined below); (iii) the Pro Rata Bonus; plus; (iv) a Severance Benefit.  The Pro Rata Bonus payment shall be made at the same time as any such bonuses are paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company.  For purposes of this Section 3.2(c), "Severance Benefit" means six (6) months of Base Salary, payable in equal installments during the six (6) month period following Executive's exhaustion of any short-term disability benefits provided by the Company, in accordance with the normal payroll practices and schedule of the Company.  The amount of suc h Severance Benefit shall be reduced by any compensation (including any payments from the Company or any benefit plans, policies or programs sponsored by the Company) earned or received by Executive during the six (6) month period following the date of termination and the six (6) month period during which Executive receives the Severance Benefit, and Executive agrees to reimburse the Company for the amount of any such reduction.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that, upon the cessation, if any, of such Disability during the period of the payment of the Severance Benefit, he/she has an obligation to use his/her reasonable efforts to secure other employment consistent with Executive's status and experience and that his/her failure to do so, as determined at the sole discretion of the Board, is a breach of this Agreement.  Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(c), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive shall cease on the effective date of termination, and any unvested stock opt ions shall lapse and be forfeited as of such date.
Termination Due to Disability
(d)
.
Termination By Company Without Cause or By Executive for Good Reason
i.
.  If Executive's employment is terminated by the Company pursuant to Section 3.1(a), above, or by Executive pursuant to Section 3.1(c), above, and such termination does not occur three (3) months prior to or within one (1) year after the occurrence of a Change of Control (defined below), Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (A) Accrued Benefits; (B) a Severance Payment (defined below); (C) the Pro Rata Bonus; provided, however, that the Pro Rata Bonus payment shall be made at the same time as any such bonuses are paid to other
No Change of Control
similarly situated executives of the Company; (D) outplacement services from an outplacement service company of the Company's choosing at a cost not to exceed Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000.00), payable directly to such outplacement service company ("Outplacement Services"); and (E) Health Insurance Continuation (defined below).  
For purposes of this Section 3.2(d)(i), "Severance Payment" means an amount equal to the sum of:
(x) Executive's Base Salary for the remainder of the then current Initial Term or Renewal Term of this Agreement, but not to exceed two and nine-tenths (2.9) years; plus
(y) an amount equal to the average (calculated at the sole discretion of the Company) of the three (3) most recent annual incentive compensation plan payments, if any, paid to Executive prior to the effective date of termination.                                                      
The Severance Payment shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum within thirty (30) days after the effective date of termination, subject to Section 3.2(e) below.
Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(d)(i), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive prior to the date of termination shall continue as scheduled until the term of this Agreement expires, after which such vesting ceases and any unvested stock options lapse and are forfeited.
ii.
.  If Executive's employment is terminated by the Company pursuant to Section 3.1(a), above, or by the Executive pursuant to Section 3.1(c), above, and such termination occurs within three (3) months prior to or one (1) year after the occurrence of a Change of Control (defined below), Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (A) Accrued Benefits; (B) a Severance Payment (defined below); (C) the Pro Rata Bonus; provided, however, that such bonus payments shall be made at the same time as any such bonuses are paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company; (D) Health Insurance Continuation (defined below) for the period of time equal to the remainder of the then-current Renewal Term, but not to exceed two and nine-tenths (2.9) years following the effective date of Executive's terminat ion; and (E) Outplacement Services.  
Change of Control
For purposes of this Section 3.2(d)(ii), "Severance Payment" means an amount equal to the sum of:
(x) Executive's Base Salary for the period of time equal to the remainder of the then-current Renewal Term, but not to exceed two and nine-tenths (2.9) years; plus
(y) an amount equal to the average (calculated at the sole discretion of the Company) of the three (3) most recent annual incentive compensation plan payments, if any, paid to Executive prior to the effective date of termination times the number of years, rounded to the nearest tenth, remaining in the then-current Renewal Term, but not to exceed two and nine-tenths (2.9).  
The Severance Payment shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum within thirty (30) days after the effective date of termination, subject to Section 3.2(e) below.
Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(d)(ii), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive prior to termination shall occur immediately upon the date of termination.
iii.
.  "Change of Control" means the occurrence of (1) the acquisition (other than from the Company) by any person, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act")), other than the Company, a subsidiary of the Company or any employee benefit plan or plans sponsored by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, directly or indirectly, of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Exchange Act Rule 13d-3) of thirty-three percent (33%) or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or voting securities representing thirty-three percent (33%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities ordinarily entitled to vote in the election of directors unless the Incumbent Board (def ined below), before such acquisition or within thirty (30) days thereafter, deems such acquisition not to be a Change of Control; or (2) individuals who, as of the date of this Agreement, constitute the Board (as of such date, "Incumbent Board") ceasing for any reason to constitute at least a majority of such Board; provided, however, that any person becoming a director subsequent to the date of this Agreement whose election, or nomination for election by the shareholders of the Company, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be for purposes of this Agreement, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest which was (or, if threatened, would have been) subject to Exchange Act Rule 14a-12(c); or (3) the consummation of any merger, consolidation or share exchange o f the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger, consolidation or share exchange which results in more than sixty percent (60%) of the outstanding shares of the common stock, and voting securities representing more than sixty percent (60%) of the combined voting power of then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, of the surviving, consolidated or resulting corporation being then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by the persons who were the Company's shareholders immediately prior to such transaction in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such transaction, of the Company's then outstanding Common Stock or then outstanding voting securities, as the case may be; or (4) the consummation of any liquidation or dissolution of the Company or a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
Definition  Change of Control
Following the occurrence of an event which is not a Change of Control whereby there is a successor company to the Company, or if there is no such successor whereby the Company is not the surviving corporation in a merger or consolidation, the surviving corporation or successor holding company (as the case may be), for purposes of this Agreement, shall thereafter be referred to as the Company.
(iv)
.  For purposes of Sections 3.2(b), 3.2(c) and 3.2(d) above, the term "Health Insurance Continuation" means that in the event the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated for any reason other than (A) a termination
Definition  Health Insurance Continuation
for Cause, or (B) a voluntary termination by the Executive for any reason other than "Good Reason" or other than approved by the Board of Directors of the Company, the Company shall continue to provide the Health Insurance Benefits.  In the event of Executive's death, the Health Insurance Benefits shall continue to be provided to Executive's Eligible Dependants, in each case for as long as each individual would have continued to qualify as an eligible dependant under the terms of the applicable insurance and medical plans had Executive been living.  
Company's responsibility to provide Health Insurance Continuation shall at all times be contingent upon:
(1)
the Health Insurance Benefits being reasonably available to the Company with respect to Executive and Executive's Eligible Dependants, as the case may be;  and
(2)
Following the termination of Executive's employment with the Company, Executive or Executive's Eligible Dependants, as the case may be, shall reimburse the Company for all premiums paid for Executive's Health Insurance Benefits, as determined by the Company in good faith from time to time.  The Company shall provide Executive a quarterly invoice for such reimbursement, and amounts due hereunder may be withheld from other amounts payable to Executive.
Any Health Insurance Continuation provided for herein will cease forever on the date on which Executive becomes eligible for health insurance coverage under another employer's group health insurance plan, and, within five (5) calendar days of Executive becoming eligible for health insurance coverage under another employer's group health insurance plan, Executive agrees to inform the Company of such fact in writing.
In no event will the Health Insurance Continuation to be provided by the Company pursuant to this Agreement in one taxable year affect the amount of Health Insurance Continuation to be provided in any other taxable year, nor will Executive's right to Health Insurance Continuation be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
(e)
.  If amounts paid to Executive pursuant to any Subsection of Section 3.2 would be subject to a penalty under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code because Executive is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), such payments will be delayed until a date which is six (6) months after Executive's termination of employment, at which point any such delayed payments will be paid to Executive in a lump sum.  Further, to the extent amount any amounts payable to Executive pursuant to any Subsection of Section 3.2 are determined, after consultation with Company counsel, to be required to be paid in accordance with the payment terms under the Original Agreement in order for Executive to avoid penalties under Section 409A, such amounts shall be payable in accordance with the payment terms under the Original Agreem ent.  Any amounts required to be paid pursuant to the terms of the Original Agreement as described in the prior sentence shall accrue interest at the rate applicable to 5-year United States Treasury notes as of the effective date of termination during the period the payments are unpaid and such interest shall be paid by the Company to the Executive together with each installment payment.  In no event, however, shall the total amount payable to
Delay of Payments if Required by Section 409A
Executive under any Subsection of this Section 3.2
be subject to the offset described in the Original Agreement for compensation earned or received by Executive from other sources.   
3.3
.  Upon termination of employment, for whatever reason, or upon request by the Company at any time, Executive shall immediately return to the Company all documents, records, and materials belonging and/or relating to the Company, and all copies of all such materials.  Upon termination of employment, for whatever reason, or upon request by the Company at any time, Executive further agrees to destroy such records maintained by Executive on Executive's own computer equipment.
Return of Records
3.4
.  As a condition to the receipt of any amounts or benefits after termination of employment for whatever reason, Executive, or his personal representative, shall be required to execute a written release agreement in a form satisfactory to the Company containing, among other items, a general release of claims against the Company and, as an additional condition to the receipt of such amounts or benefits, Executive shall not have exercised any right to revoke such release agreement during any applicable rescission period.
Release
4.1
.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that, as an integral part of its business, the Company has expended a great deal of time, money and effort to develop and maintain confidential, proprietary and trade secret information to compete against similar businesses and that this information, if misused or disclosed, would be harmful to the Company's business and competitive position in the marketplace.  Executive further acknowledges and agrees that in Executive's position with the Company, the Company provides Executive with access to its confidential, proprietary and trade secret information, strategies and other confidential business information that would be of considerable value to competitive businesses.  As a result, Executive acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this Article IV are reasonable, appropriate and necessary for the protection of the Company's confidential, proprietary and trade secret information.  For purposes of this Article IV, the term "Company" means Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and its parent companies, subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Acknowledgments
4.2.
.During the term of Executive's employment under this Agreement, Executive will not directly or indirectly use or disclose any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets (defined below) except in the interest and for the benefit of the Company.  After the termination, for whatever reason, of Executive's employment with the Company, Executive will not directly or indirectly use or disclose any Trade Secrets unless such information ceases to be deemed a Trade Secret by means of one of the exceptions set forth in Section 4.3(c), below.  For a period of two (2) years following termination, for whatever reason, of Executive's employment with the Company, Executive will not directly or indirectly use or disclose any Confidential Information, unless such information ceases to be deemed Confidential Information by means of one of the exceptions set forth in Section 4.3(c), below.
Confidentiality Obligations
 
4.3
.
Definitions
(a)
.  The term "Trade Secret" shall have that meaning set forth under applicable law.  This term is deemed by the Company to specifically include all of Company's computer source, object or other code and any confidential information received from a third party with whom the Company has a binding agreement restricting disclosure of such confidential information.
Trade Secret
(b)
.  The term "Confidential Information" shall mean all non-Trade Secret or proprietary information of the Company which has value to the Company and which is not known to the public or the Company's competitors, generally, including, but not limited to, strategic growth plans, pricing policies and strategies, employment records and policies, operational methods, marketing plans and strategies, advertising plans and strategies, product development techniques and plans, business acquisition and divestiture plans, resources, sources of supply, suppliers and supplier contractual relationships and terms, technical processes, designs, inventions, research programs and results, source code, short-term and long-range planning, projections, information systems, sales objectives and performance, profits and profit margins, and seasonal plans, goals and objectives.
Confidential Information
(c)
.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the terms "Trade Secret" and "Confidential Information" shall not include, and the obligations set forth in this Article IV shall not apply to, any information which: (i) can be demonstrated by Executive to have been known by Executive prior to Executive's employment by the Company; (ii) is or becomes generally available to the public through no act or omission of Executive; (iii) is obtained by Executive in good faith from a third party who discloses such information to Executive on a non-confidential basis without violating any obligation of confidentiality or secrecy relating to the information disclosed; or (iv) is independently developed by Executive outside the scope of Executive's employment without use of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.
Exclusions
5.1
.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company is one of the leading retail companies in the United States, with department stores throughout the United States, and that the Company compensates executives like Executive to, among other things, develop and maintain valuable goodwill and relationships on the Company's behalf (including relationships with customers, suppliers, vendors, employees and other associates) and to maintain business information for the Company's exclusive ownership and use.  As a result, Executive acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this Article V are reasonable, appropriate and necessary for the protection of the Company's goodwill, customer, supplier, vendor, employee and other associate relationships and Confidential Information and Trade Secrets.  Executive further acknowledges and agrees that the restric tions contained in this Article V will not pose an undue hardship on Executive or Executive's ability to find gainful employment.  For purposes of this Article V, the term "Company" means Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and its parent companies, subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Acknowledgments
5.2
.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term and for the one (1) year period following termination, for whatever reason, of Executive's employment with the Company, Executive will not, directly or indirectly, provide Restricted Services (defined below) for or on behalf of any Competitive Business (defined below) or directly or indirectly,
Restricted Services Obligation
provide any Competitive Business with any advice or counsel in the nature of the Restricted Services.
5.3
.  For purposes of this Article V, the following are defined terms:
Definitions
(a)
.  "Restricted Services" shall mean services of any kind or character comparable to those Executive provided to the Company during the eighteen (18) month period immediately preceding Executive's last date of employment with the Company.
Restricted Services
(b)
.  "Competitive Business" shall mean each of the following entities:  J.C. Penney Company, Inc., Macy's, Inc., The Gap, Inc., Target Corporation, Sears Holdings Corporation, and any successors, subsidiaries or affiliates of these entities engaged in the operation of national retail department stores.
Competitive Business
6.1
.  Executive shall immediately disclose to the Company a list of all inventions, patents, applications for patent, copyrights, and applications for copyright in which Executive currently holds an interest.  The Company will own, and Executive hereby assigns to the Company, all rights in all Business Ideas.  All Business Ideas which are or form the basis for copyrightable works shall be considered "works for hire" as that term is defined by United States Copyright Law.  Any works that are not found to be "works for hire" are hereby assigned to the Company.  While employed by the Company and for one (1) year thereafter, Executive will promptly disclose all Business Ideas to the Company and execute all documents which the Company may reasonably require to perfect its patent, copyright and other rights to such Business Ideas throughout t he world.  After Executive's employment with the Company terminates, for whatever reason, Executive will cooperate with the Company to assist the Company in perfecting its rights to any Business Ideas including executing all documents which the Company may reasonably require.  For purposes of this Article VI, the term "Company" means Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and its parent companies, subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Assignment of Business Ideas
6.2
.  The term "Business Ideas" as used in this Agreement means all ideas, inventions, data, software, developments and copyrightable works, whether or not patentable or registrable, which Executive originates, discovers or develops, either alone or jointly with others while Executive is employed by the Company and for one (1) year thereafter and which are (a) related to any business known by Executive to be engaged in or contemplated by the Company, (b) originated, discovered or developed during Executive's working hours during his employment with the Company, or (c) originated, discovered or developed in whole or in part using materials, labor, facilities, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets, or equipment furnished by the Company.
Business Ideas
6.3
.  Executive agrees not to engage at any time in any form of conduct or make any statements or representations, or direct any other person or entity to engage in any conduct or make any statements or representations, that disparage, criticize or otherwise impair the reputation of the Company, its affiliates, parents and subsidiaries and their respective past and present officers, directors, stockholders, partners, members, agents and employees.  Nothing contained in this Section 6.3 shall preclude Executive from providing truthful testimony or
Non-Disparagement
statements pursuant to subpoena or other legal process or in response to inquiries from any government agency or entity.
During the term of Executive's employment with the Company and for one (1) year thereafter, Executive shall not directly or indirectly encourage any Company employee to terminate his/her employment with the Company unless Executive does so in the course of performing his duties for the Company and such encouragement is in the Company's best interests.  For purposes of this Article VII, the term "Company" means Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and its parent companies, subsidiaries and other affiliates.
8.1
.  Any and all notices, consents, documents or communications provided for in this Agreement shall be given in writing and shall be personally delivered, mailed by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) or sent by courier, confirmed by receipt, and addressed as follows (or to such other address as the addressed party may have substituted by notice pursuant to this Section 8.1):
Notices
(a) If to the Company:
Kohl's Department Stores, Inc.
N56 W17000 Ridgewood Drive
Menomonee Falls, WI  53051
Attn:  Richard D. Schepp, General Counsel
(b) If to Executive:
Any notice to be given to the Executive may be addressed to him at the address as it appears on the payroll records of the Company or any subsidiary thereof.
Such notice, consent, document or communication shall be deemed given upon personal delivery or receipt at the address of the party stated above or at any other address specified by such party to the other party in writing, except that if delivery is refused or cannot be made for any reason, then such notice shall be deemed given on the third day after it is sent.
8.2
.
Executive Disclosures and Acknowledgments
(a)
.  Attached as Exhibit B is a list of prior obligations (written and oral), such as confidentiality agreements or covenants restricting future employment or consulting, that Executive has entered into which may restrict Executive's ability to perform Executive's duties as an employee for the Company.
Prior Obligations
(b)
.  Executive certifies that Executive has not, and will not, disclose or use during Executive's time as an employee of the Company, any confidential information which Executive acquired as a result of any previous employment or under a contractual obligation of confidentiality or secrecy before Executive became an employee of the Company.
Confidential Information of Others
(c)
.  By entering into this Agreement, Executive acknowledges the nature of the Company's business and the nature and scope of the restrictions set forth in Articles IV, V and VII, above, including specifically Wisconsin's Uniform Trade Secrets Act, presently  134.90,  Executive acknowledges and represents that the scope of such restrictions are appropriate, necessary and reasonable for the protection of the Company's business, goodwill, and property rights.  Executive further acknowledges that the restrictions imposed will not prevent Executive from earning a living in the event of, and after, termination, for whatever reason, of Executive's employment with the Company.  Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent Executive, after termination of Executive's employment with the Company, from using general skills and kno wledge gained while employed by the Company.
Scope of Restrictions
Wis. Stats.
(d)
.  Executive agrees, during the term of any restriction contained in Articles IV, V and VII, above, to disclose such provisions to any future or prospective employer.  Executive further agrees that the Company may send a copy of this Agreement to, or otherwise make the provisions hereof known to, any such employer.
Prospective Employers
8.3
.  Notwithstanding any termination of this Agreement, the Executive, in consideration of his employment hereunder, shall remain bound by the provisions of this Agreement which specifically relate to periods, activities or obligations upon or subsequent to the termination of the Executive's employment.
Effect of Termination
8.4
. Executive agrees that, with the exception of disclosures pursuant to Section 8.2(d), above, Executive will not disclose, directly or indirectly, any non-public terms of this Agreement to any third party; provided, however, that following Executive's obtaining a promise of confidentiality for the benefit of the Company from Executive's tax preparer, accountant, attorney and spouse, Executive may disclose such terms to such of these individuals who have made such a promise of confidentiality.  This provision shall not prevent Executive from disclosing such matters in testifying in any hearing, trial or other legal proceeding where Executive is required to do so.
Confidentiality of Agreement
8.5
.  Executive agrees to take all reasonable steps during and after Executive's employment with the Company to make himself/herself available to and to cooperate with the Company, at its request, in connection with any legal proceedings or other matters in which it is or may become involved.  Following Executive's employment with the Company, the Company
Cooperation
agrees to pay reasonable compensation to Executive and to pay all reasonable expenses incurred by Executive in connection with Executive's obligations under this Section 8.5.
8.6
.  In the event that Executive breaches any provision of this Agreement, Executive agrees that the Company may suspend all payments to Executive under this Agreement (including any Severance Payment), recover from Executive any damages suffered as a result of such breach and recover from Executive any reasonable attorneys' fees or costs it incurs as a result of such breach.  In addition, Executive agrees that the Company may seek injunctive or other equitable relief, without the necessity of posting bond, as a result of a breach by Executive of any provision of this Agreement.
Effect of Breach
8.7
.  This Agreement contains the entire understanding and the full and complete agreement of the parties and supersedes and replaces any prior understandings and agreements among the parties, with respect to the subject matter hereof, including without limitation the Original Agreement.
Entire Agreement
8.8
.  The headings of sections and paragraphs of this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of its provisions.
Headings
8.9
.  Execution of this Agreement is a condition of Executive's continued employment with the Company and Executive's continued employment by the Company, and the benefits provided to Executive under this Agreement, constitute the consideration for Executive's undertakings hereunder.
Consideration
8.10
.  This Agreement may be altered, amended or modified only in a writing, signed by both of the Parties hereto.
Amendment
8.11
.  This Agreement and the rights and duties set forth herein may not be assigned by Executive, but may be assigned by the Company, in whole or in part.  This Agreement shall be binding on and inure to the benefit of each party and such party's respective heirs, legal representatives, successors and assigns.
Assignability
8.12
.  If any court of competent jurisdiction determines that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable, then such invalidity or unenforceability shall have no effect on the other provisions hereof, which shall remain valid, binding and enforceable and in full force and effect, and such invalid or unenforceable provision shall be construed in a manner so as to give the maximum valid and enforceable effect to the intent of the Parties expressed therein.
Severability
8.13
.  The waiver by either party of the breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by either party.
Waiver of Breach
8.14
.  This Agreement shall be governed by the internal laws of the State of Wisconsin, without regard to any rules of construction concerning the draftsman hereof.
Governing Law; Construction
8.15
.  The Company and Executive intend that any amounts or benefits payable or provided under this Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the treasury regulations relating thereto so as not to subject Executive
Section 409A Compliance
to the payment of the tax, interest and any tax penalty which may be imposed under Code Section 409A.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with such intent.  In furtherance thereof, to the extent that any provision hereof would otherwise result in Executive being subject to payment of tax, interest and tax penalty under Code Section 409A, the Company and Executive agree to amend this Agreement in a manner that brings this Agreement into compliance with Code Section 409A and preserves to the maximum extent possible the economic value of the relevant payment or benefit under this Agreement to Executive.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year written above.
:
KOHL'S DEPARTMENT STORES, INC.
By: _____________________
/s/ KEVIN MANSELL
       
Kevin Mansell,
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
:
EXECUTIVE
                   ______________
/s/ JOHN M. WORTHINGTON
John M. Worthington
 
Executive's annual base compensation as of the date of this Agreement is Nine Hundred Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($900,000).                  .

Exhibit 10.3
THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is executed as of this 1 day of December, 2010, by and between Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and Kohl's Corporation (collectively referred to in this Agreement as "Company") and Peggy Eskenasi ("Executive").  
st
The Company desires to employ Employee, and Employee desires to be employed by the Company, on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
The parties believe it is in their best interests to make provision for certain aspects of their relationship during and after the period in which Employee is employed by the Company.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements and covenants contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged by the Company and Employee ("Parties"), the Parties agree as follows:
1.1
.  The Company employs Executive, and Executive accepts employment by the Company, for the three (3) year period commencing on December 1, 2010 (the "Initial Term"), subject to earlier termination as hereinafter set forth in Article III, below.  This Agreement shall be automatically extended for one (1) day each day during the term (the Initial Term as so extended, the "Renewal Term") unless either party shall give the other a written notice of intention not to renew, in which case this Agreement shall terminate as of the end of the Initial Term or said Renewal Term, as applicable or unless this Agreement is earlier terminated as set forth in Article III, below.  If this Agreement is extended, the terms of this Agreement during such Renewal Term shall be the same as the terms in effect immediately prior to s uch extension (including the early termination provisions set forth in Article III, below), subject to any such changes or modifications as mutually may be agreed between the Parties as evidenced in a written instrument signed by both the Company and Executive.  If Executive's employment is terminated for any reason specified in Section 3.1, below, after either party has provided a notice of non-renewal under this Section 1.1, such termination will be treated as a termination under the applicable provision of Section 3.1 and not as a termination due to non-renewal under this Section 1.1.
Term of Employment
1.2
.  Executive shall be employed in the position of Senior Executive Vice President, and shall be subject to the authority of, and shall report to, the Company's Chief Merchandising Officer and/orBoard of Directors (the "Board").  Executive's duties and responsibilities shall include all those customarily attendant to the position of Senior Executive Vice President and such other duties and responsibilities as may be assigned from time to time by Employee's supervisor and/or the Company's Board.  Executive shall devote Executive's entire business time, attention and energies exclusively to the business interests of the Company while employed by the Company except as otherwise specifically approved in writing by Employee's supervisor and/or the Company's Board.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, Executive may not participate on the board of directors or any similar governing body of any for-profit entity other than the Company, unless first approved by the Company's Board.  
Position and Duties
 
2.1
.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, the Company shall pay Executive an annual base salary as described in Exhibit A (a copy of which is attached hereto and incorporated herein), payable in accordance with the normal payroll practices and schedule of the Company ("Base Salary").  The Base Salary shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as determined by the Board.
Base Salary
2.2
.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, Executive will be eligible to participate in the plans, programs and policies including, without limitation, group medical insurance, fringe benefits, paid vacation, expense reimbursement and incentive pay plans, which the Company makes available to senior executives of the Company in accordance with the eligibility requirements, terms and conditions of such plans, programs and policies in effect from time to time.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company may amend, modify or terminate any of such plans, programs and policies at any time at its discretion.
Benefit Plans and Fringe Benefits
2.3
.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, Executive may be eligible to participate in stock option, phantom stock, restricted stock or other similar equity incentive plans or programs which the Company may establish from time to time.  The terms of any such plans or programs, and Executive's eligibility to participate in them, shall be established by the Board at its sole discretion.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company may amend, modify or terminate any of such plans or programs at any time at its discretion.
Equity Plans or Programs
In no event will the reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided by the Company pursuant to this Agreement in one taxable year affect the amount of reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided in any other taxable year, nor will Executive's right to reimbursement or in-kind benefits be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.  Further, any reimbursements to be provided by the Company pursuant to this Agreement shall be paid to the Executive no later than the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Executive incurs the expenses.
3.1
.
Right to Terminate; Automatic Termination
(a)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, the Company may terminate Executive's employment and all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement at any time and for any reason.
Termination Without Cause
(b)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, the Company may terminate Executive's employment and all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement at any time for Cause (defined below) by giving notice to Executive stating the basis for such termination, effective immediately upon giving such notice or at such other time thereafter as the Company may designate.  "Cause" shall mean any of the following:  (i) Executive's continuous failure to
Termination For Cause
substantially perform Executive's duties after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to Executive that specifically identifies the manner in which the Company believes that Executive has not substantially performed his/her duties, and Executive has failed to demonstrate substantial efforts to resume substantial performance of Executive's duties on a continuous basis within sixty (60) calendar days after receiving such demand; (ii) Executive's violation of a material provision of "Kohl's Ethical Standards and Responsibilities" which is materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise; (iii) any dishonest or fraudulent conduct which results, or is intended to result, in gain to Executive or Executive's personal enrichment at the expense of the Company; (iv) any material breach of this Agreement by Executive after a written notice of such br each is delivered to Executive that specifically identifies the manner in which the Company believes that Executive has breached this Agreement, and Executive has failed to cure such breach within thirty (30) calendar days after receiving such demand; provided, however, that no cure period shall be required for breaches of Articles IV, V, VI or VII, below, of this Agreement; or (v) conviction of Executive, after all applicable rights of appeal have been exhausted or waived, of any crime.  Notwithstanding the conviction of a crime as described in the preceding subsection (v), the Board, in its sole discretion, may waive such termination in the event it determines that such crime does not discredit the Company or is not detrimental to the Company's reputation or goodwill, and any decision by the Board with respect to such waiver shall be final.
(c)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, Executive may terminate Executive's employment and all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement at any time for Good Reason (defined below) by giving written notice to the Company stating the basis for such termination, effective immediately upon giving such notice.  "Good Reason" shall mean any of the following: (i) a material reduction in Executive's status, title, position, responsibilities or Base Salary; (ii) any material breach by the Company of this Agreement; (iii) any purported termination of the Executive's employment for Cause which does not comply with the terms of this Agreement; or (iv) a mandatory relocation of Executive's employment with the Company from the Milwaukee, Wisconsin area, except for travel reasonably required in the performance of Executive 46;s duties and responsibilities; provided, however, that no termination shall be for Good Reason until Executive has provided the Company with written notice of the conduct alleged to have caused Good Reason and at least thirty (30) calendar days have elapsed after the Company's receipt of such written notice from Executive, during which the Company has failed to demonstrate substantial efforts to cure any such alleged conduct.
Termination for Good Reason
(d)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, Executive's employment and the Company's obligations under this Agreement shall terminate automatically, effective immediately and without any notice being necessary, upon Executive's death or a determination of Disability of Executive.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" means the Executive: (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, or (ii) has been, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, receiving income re placement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Company.   A determination of Disability shall be made by the Company, which may, at its sole discretion, consult with a physician or physicians satisfactory to the Company, and Executive shall cooperate with any efforts to make such
Termination by Death or Disability
determination.  Any such determination shall be conclusive and binding on the parties.  Any determination of Disability under this Section 3.1(d) is not intended to alter any benefits any party may be entitled to receive under any disability insurance policy carried by either the Company or Executive with respect to Executive, which benefits shall be governed solely by the terms of any such insurance policy.
(e)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, Executive's employment and the Company's obligations under this Agreement shall terminate automatically, effective immediately upon Executive's provision of written notice to the Company of Executive's resignation from employment with the Company or at such other time as may be mutually agreed between the Parties following the provision of such notice.
Termination by Resignation
(f)  
.  A termination of employment under this Agreement shall only occur to the extent Executive has a "separation from service" from Company in accordance with Section 409A of the Code.  Under Section 409A, a "separation from service" occurs when Executive and the Company reasonably anticipate that no further services will be performed by Executive after a certain date or that the level of bona fide services Executive would perform after such date (whether as an employee or as a consultant) would permanently decrease to no more than 20 percent of the average level of bona fide services performed by Executive over the immediately preceding 36-month period.
Separation of Service
3.2
.
Rights Upon Termination
(a)
.  If Executive's employment is terminated by the Company pursuant to Section 3.1(b), above, by Executive pursuant to Section 3.1(e), above, or due to non-renewal by Executive pursuant to Section 1.1, above, Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (i) any unpaid Base Salary with respect to the period prior to the effective date of termination together with payment of any vacation that Executive has accrued but not used through the date of termination; (ii) reimbursement of expenses to which Executive is entitled under Section 2.2, above; and (iii) Executive's unpaid bonus, if any, attributable to any complete fiscal year of the Company ended before the date of termination (in the aggregate, th e "Accrued Benefits").  Any such bonus payment shall be made at the same time as any such bonus is paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company.  Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(a), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive ceases on the effective date of termination, and any unvested stock options lapse and are forfeited immediately upon the effective date of termination.
Termination By Company for Cause, By Executive Other Than For Good Reason or By Executive's Non-Renewal
(b)
.  If Executive's employment is terminated due to non-renewal by the Company pursuant to Section 1.1, above, or due to Executive's death pursuant to Section 3.1(d), above, Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (i) Accrued Benefits; and (ii) a share of any bonus attributable to the fiscal year of the Company during which the effective date of termination occurs determined as follows:  the product of (x) the average bonuses paid or payable, including any amounts that were deferred in respect of the three (3) fiscal years immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the effective date of termination occurs (the "Recent Average Bonus") and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days completed in the fiscal year in which the
Termination By Company's Non-Renewal or Due to Executive's Death
effective date of termination occurs through the effective date of termination and the denominator of which is three hundred sixty-five (365) (the "Pro Rata Bonus").  Such Pro Rata Bonus shall be paid at the same time as any such bonuses are paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company.  Executive shall also be entitled to a severance payment equal to fifty percent (50%) of Executive's Base Salary payable for one (1) year following the effective date of termination pursuant to normal payroll practices.  Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(b), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive shall cease on the effective date of termination, and any unvested stock options shall lapse and be forfeited as of such date; provided, however, that if Executive's termination is due to Executive's death, all Company stock options granted to Executive sh all immediately vest upon the date of Executive's death.
(c)
.  If Executive's employment is terminated due to Executive's Disability pursuant to Section 3.1(d), above, Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (i) Accrued Benefits; (ii) the Pro Rata Bonus; plus; (iii) a Severance Benefit.  The Pro Rata Bonus payment shall be made at the same time as any such bonuses are paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company.  For purposes of this Section 3.2(c), "Severance Benefit" means six (6) months of Base Salary, payable in equal installments during the six (6) month period following Executive's exhaustion of any short-term disability benefits provided by the Company, in accordance with the normal payroll practices and schedule of the Company.  The amount of such Severance Benefit shall be reduced by any compensa tion (including any payments from the Company or any benefit plans, policies or programs sponsored by the Company) earned or received by Executive during the six (6) month period following the date of termination and the six (6) month period during which Executive receives the Severance Benefit, and Executive agrees to reimburse the Company for the amount of any such reduction.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that, upon the cessation, if any, of such Disability during the period of the payment of the Severance Benefit, he/she has an obligation to use his/her reasonable efforts to secure other employment consistent with Executive's status and experience and that his/her failure to do so, as determined at the sole discretion of the Board, is a breach of this Agreement.  Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(c), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive shall cease on the effective date of termination, and any unvested stock options shall lapse and be forfeited as of such date.
Termination Due to Disability
(d)
.
Termination By Company Without Cause or By Executive for Good Reason
i.
.  If Executive's employment is terminated by the Company pursuant to Section 3.1(a), above, or by Executive pursuant to Section 3.1(c), above, and such termination does not occur three (3) months prior to or within one (1) year after the occurrence of a Change of Control (defined below), Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (A) Accrued Benefits; (B) a Severance Payment (defined below); (C) the Pro Rata Bonus; provided, however, that the Pro Rata Bonus payment shall be made at the same time as any such bonuses are paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company; (D) outplacement services from an outplacement service company of the Company's choosing at a cost not to exceed Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000.00), payable directly to such outplacement service company (&# 147;Outplacement Services"); and (E) Health Insurance Continuation (defined below) for a period of two (2) years following the effective date of Executive's termination.  
No Change of Control
For purposes of this Section 3.2(d)(i), "Severance Payment" means an amount equal to the sum of:
(x) Executive's Base Salary for the remainder of the then current Initial Term or Renewal Term of this Agreement, but not to exceed two and nine-tenths (2.9) years; plus
(y) an amount equal to the average (calculated at the sole discretion of the Company) of the three (3) most recent annual incentive compensation plan payments, if any, paid to Executive prior to the effective date of termination.                                                      
The Severance Payment shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum within thirty (30) days after the effective date of termination, subject to Section 3.2(e) below.
Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(d)(i), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive prior to the date of termination shall continue as scheduled until the term of this Agreement expires, after which such vesting ceases and any unvested stock options lapse and are forfeited.
ii.
.  If Executive's employment is terminated by the Company pursuant to Section 3.1(a), above, or by the Executive pursuant to Section 3.1(c), above, and such termination occurs within three (3) months prior to or one (1) year after the occurrence of a Change of Control (defined below), Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (A) Accrued Benefits; (B) a Severance Payment (defined below); (C) the Pro Rata Bonus; provided, however, that such bonus payments shall be made at the same time as any such bonuses are paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company; (D) Health Insurance Continuation (defined below) for a period of one (1) year following the effective date of Executive's termination; and (E) Outplacement Services.  
Change of Control
For purposes of this Section 3.2(d)(ii), "Severance Payment" means an amount equal to the sum of:
(x) Executive's Base Salary for the period of time equal to the remainder of the then-current Renewal Term, but not to exceed two and nine-tenths (2.9) years; plus
(y) an amount equal to the average (calculated at the sole discretion of the Company) of the three (3) most recent annual incentive compensation plan payments, if any, paid to Executive prior to the effective date of termination times the number of years, rounded to the nearest tenth, remaining in the then-current Renewal Term, but not to exceed two and nine-tenths (2.9).  
The Severance Payment shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum within thirty (30) days after the effective date of termination, subject to Section 3.2(e) below.
Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(d)(ii), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive prior to termination shall occur immediately upon the date of termination.
iii.
.  "Change of Control" means the occurrence of (1) the acquisition (other than from the Company) by any person, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act")), other than the Company, a subsidiary of the Company or any employee benefit plan or plans sponsored by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, directly or indirectly, of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Exchange Act Rule 13d-3) of thirty-three percent (33%) or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or voting securities representing thirty-three percent (33%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities ordinarily entitled to vote in the election of directors unless the Incumbent Board (def ined below), before such acquisition or within thirty (30) days thereafter, deems such acquisition not to be a Change of Control; or (2) individuals who, as of the date of this Agreement, constitute the Board (as of such date, "Incumbent Board") ceasing for any reason to constitute at least a majority of such Board; provided, however, that any person becoming a director subsequent to the date of this Agreement whose election, or nomination for election by the shareholders of the Company, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be for purposes of this Agreement, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest which was (or, if threatened, would have been) subject to Exchange Act Rule 14a-12(c); or (3) the consummation of any merger, consolidation or share exchange o f the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger, consolidation or share exchange which results in more than sixty percent (60%) of the outstanding shares of the common stock, and voting securities representing more than sixty percent (60%) of the combined voting power of then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, of the surviving, consolidated or resulting corporation being then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by the persons who were the Company's shareholders immediately prior to such transaction in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such transaction, of the Company's then outstanding Common Stock or then outstanding voting securities, as the case may be; or (4) the consummation of any liquidation or dissolution of the Company or a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
Definition  Change of Control
Following the occurrence of an event which is not a Change of Control whereby there is a successor company to the Company, or if there is no such successor whereby the Company is not the surviving corporation in a merger or consolidation, the surviving corporation or successor holding company (as the case may be), for purposes of this Agreement, shall thereafter be referred to as the Company.
(iv)
.  For purposes of Sections 3.2(d)(i) and 3.2(d)(ii) above, the term "Health Insurance Continuation" means that, if Executive (and Executive's eligible dependents), following termination from employment under Sections 3.2(d)(i) and 3.2(d)(ii) above, timely elects to participate in the Company's group health insurance plans pursuant to the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended ("COBRA"), the Company will pay the normal monthly employer's cost of coverage under the Company's group health insurance plans for full-time employees toward such COBRA coverage for the specified period of time, if any, set forth in Sections 3.2(d)(i) and 3.2(d)(ii).  If the specified period of time provided for in this Agreement is
Definition  Health Insurance Continuation
longer than the end of the 18-month period for which Executive is eligible for COBRA, the Company will, until the end of such longer period, pay the normal monthly employer's cost of coverage under the Company's group health insurance plans to, at its sole discretion, allow Executive to continue to participate in such plans (if allowed by law and the Company's policies, plans and programs) or allow Executive to purchase reasonably comparable individual health insurance coverage through the end of such longer period.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that Executive is responsible for paying the balance of any costs not paid for by the Company under this Agreement which are associated with Executive's participation in the Company's health insurance plans or individual health insurance and that Executive's failure to pay such costs may result in the ter mination of Executive's participation in such plans or insurance.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company may deduct from any Severance Payment Executive receives pursuant to this Agreement, amounts that Executive is responsible to pay for Health Insurance Continuation.  Any Health Insurance Continuation provided for herein will cease on the date on which Executive becomes eligible for health insurance coverage under another employer's group health insurance plan, and, within five (5) calendar days of Executive becoming eligible for health insurance coverage under another employer's group health insurance plan, Executive agrees to inform the Company of such fact in writing.
In no event will the Health Insurance Continuation to be provided by the Company pursuant to this Agreement in one taxable year affect the amount of Health Insurance Continuation to be provided in any other taxable year, nor will Executive's right to Health Insurance Continuation be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
(e)
.  If amounts paid to Executive pursuant to any Subsection of Section 3.2 would be subject to a penalty under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code because Executive is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), such payments will be delayed until a date which is six (6) months after Executive's termination of employment, at which point any such delayed payments will be paid to Executive in a lump sum.  
Delay of Payments if Required by Section 409A
3.3
.  Upon termination of employment, for whatever reason, or upon request by the Company at any time, Executive shall immediately return to the Company all documents, records, and materials belonging and/or relating to the Company, and all copies of all such materials.  Upon termination of employment, for whatever reason, or upon request by the Company at any time, Executive further agrees to destroy such records maintained by Executive on Executive's own computer equipment.
Return of Records
3.4
.  As a condition to the receipt of any amounts or benefits after termination of employment for whatever reason, Executive, or her personal representative, shall be required to execute a written release agreement in a form satisfactory to the Company containing, among other items, a general release of claims against the Company and, as an additional condition to the receipt of such amounts or benefits, Executive shall not have exercised any right to revoke such release agreement during any applicable rescission period.
Release
4.1
.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that, as an integral part of its business, the Company has expended a great deal of time, money and effort to develop and maintain confidential, proprietary and trade secret information to compete against similar businesses and that this information, if misused or disclosed, would be harmful to the Company's business and competitive position in the marketplace.  Executive further acknowledges and agrees that in Executive's position with the Company, the Company provides Executive with access to its confidential, proprietary and trade secret information, strategies and other confidential business information that would be of considerable value to competitive businesses.  As a result, Executive acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this Article IV are reasonable, appropriate and necessary for the protection of the Company's confidential, proprietary and trade secret information.  For purposes of this Article IV, the term "Company" means Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and its parent companies, subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Acknowledgments
4.2.
.During the term of Executive's employment under this Agreement, Executive will not directly or indirectly use or disclose any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets (defined below) except in the interest and for the benefit of the Company.  After the termination, for whatever reason, of Executive's employment with the Company, Executive will not directly or indirectly use or disclose any Trade Secrets unless such information ceases to be deemed a Trade Secret by means of one of the exceptions set forth in Section 4.3(c), below.  For a period of two (2) years following termination, for whatever reason, of Executive's employment with the Company, Executive will not directly or indirectly use or disclose any Confidential Information, unless such information ceases to be deemed Confidential Information by means of one of the exceptions set forth in Section 4.3(c), below.
Confidentiality Obligations
 
4.3
.
Definitions
(a)
.  The term "Trade Secret" shall have that meaning set forth under applicable law.  This term is deemed by the Company to specifically include all of Company's computer source, object or other code and any confidential information received from a third party with whom the Company has a binding agreement restricting disclosure of such confidential information.
Trade Secret
(b)
.  The term "Confidential Information" shall mean all non-Trade Secret or proprietary information of the Company which has value to the Company and which is not known to the public or the Company's competitors, generally, including, but not limited to, strategic growth plans, pricing policies and strategies, employment records and policies, operational methods, marketing plans and strategies, advertising plans and strategies, product development techniques and plans, business acquisition and divestiture plans, resources, sources of supply, suppliers and supplier contractual relationships and terms, technical processes, designs, inventions, research programs and results, source code, short-term and long-range planning, projections, information systems, sales objectives and performance, profits and profit margins, and seasonal plans, goals and objectives.
Confidential Information
(c)
.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the terms "Trade Secret" and "Confidential Information" shall not include, and the obligations set forth in this Article IV shall not apply to, any information which: (i) can be demonstrated by Executive to have been known by Executive prior to Executive's employment by the Company; (ii) is or becomes generally available to the public through no act or omission of Executive; (iii) is obtained by Executive in good faith from a third party who discloses such information to Executive on a non-confidential basis without violating any obligation of confidentiality or secrecy relating to the information disclosed; or (iv) is independently developed by Executive outside the scope of Executive's employment without use of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.
Exclusions
5.1
.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company is one of the leading retail companies in the United States, with department stores throughout the United States, and that the Company compensates executives like Executive to, among other things, develop and maintain valuable goodwill and relationships on the Company's behalf (including relationships with customers, suppliers, vendors, employees and other associates) and to maintain business information for the Company's exclusive ownership and use.  As a result, Executive acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this Article V are reasonable, appropriate and necessary for the protection of the Company's goodwill, customer, supplier, vendor, employee and other associate relationships and Confidential Information and Trade Secrets.  Executive further acknowledges and agrees that the restric tions contained in this Article V will not pose an undue hardship on Executive or Executive's ability to find gainful employment.  For purposes of this Article V, the term "Company" means Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and its parent companies, subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Acknowledgments
5.2
.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term and for the one (1) year period following termination, for whatever reason, of Executive's employment with the Company, Executive will not, directly or indirectly, provide Restricted Services (defined below) for or on behalf of any Competitive Business (defined below) or directly or indirectly, provide any Competitive Business with any advice or counsel in the nature of the Restricted Services.
Restricted Services Obligation
5.3
.  For purposes of this Article V, the following are defined terms:
Definitions
(a)
.  "Restricted Services" shall mean services of any kind or character comparable to those Executive provided to the Company during the eighteen (18) month period immediately preceding Executive's last date of employment with the Company.
Restricted Services
(b)
.  "Competitive Business" shall mean each of the following entities:  J.C. Penney Company, Inc., Macy's, Inc., The Gap, Inc., Target Corporation, Sears Holdings Corporation, and any successors, subsidiaries or affiliates of these entities engaged in the operation of national retail department stores.
Competitive Business
6.1
.  Executive shall immediately disclose to the Company a list of all inventions, patents, applications for patent, copyrights, and applications for copyright in which Executive currently holds an interest.  The Company will own, and Executive hereby assigns to the Company, all rights in all Business Ideas.  All Business Ideas which are or form the basis for copyrightable works shall be considered "works for hire" as that term is defined by United States Copyright Law.  Any works that are not found to be "works for hire" are hereby assigned to the Company.  While employed by the Company and for one (1) year thereafter, Executive will promptly disclose all Business Ideas to the Company and execute all documents which the Company may reasonably require to perfect its patent, copyright and other rights to such Business Ideas throughout t he world.  After Executive's employment with the Company terminates, for whatever reason, Executive will cooperate with the Company to assist the Company in perfecting its rights to any Business Ideas including executing all documents which the Company may reasonably require.  For purposes of this Article VI, the term "Company" means Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and its parent companies, subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Assignment of Business Ideas
6.2
.  The term "Business Ideas" as used in this Agreement means all ideas, inventions, data, software, developments and copyrightable works, whether or not patentable or registrable, which Executive originates, discovers or develops, either alone or jointly with others while Executive is employed by the Company and for one (1) year thereafter and which are (a) related to any business known by Executive to be engaged in or contemplated by the Company, (b) originated, discovered or developed during Executive's working hours during her employment with the Company, or (c) originated, discovered or developed in whole or in part using materials, labor, facilities, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets, or equipment furnished by the Company.
Business Ideas
6.3
.  Executive agrees not to engage at any time in any form of conduct or make any statements or representations, or direct any other person or entity to engage in any conduct or make any statements or representations, that disparage, criticize or otherwise impair the reputation of the Company, its affiliates, parents and subsidiaries and their respective past and present officers, directors, stockholders, partners, members, agents and employees.  Nothing contained in this Section 6.3 shall preclude Executive from providing truthful testimony or statements pursuant to subpoena or other legal process or in response to inquiries from any government agency or entity.
Non-Disparagement
During the term of Executive's employment with the Company and for one (1) year thereafter, Executive shall not directly or indirectly encourage any Company employee to terminate his/her employment with the Company unless Executive does so in the course of performing her duties for the Company and such encouragement is in the Company's best interests.  For purposes of this Article VII, the term "Company" means Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and its parent companies, subsidiaries and other affiliates.
8.1
.  Any and all notices, consents, documents or communications provided for in this Agreement shall be given in writing and shall be personally delivered, mailed by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) or sent by courier, confirmed by receipt, and addressed as follows (or to such other address as the addressed party may have substituted by notice pursuant to this Section 8.1):
Notices
(a) If to the Company:
Kohl's Department Stores, Inc.
N56 W17000 Ridgewood Drive
Menomonee Falls, WI  53051
Attn:  Richard D. Schepp, General Counsel
(b) If to Executive:
Any notice to be given to the Executive may be addressed to her at the address as it appears on the payroll records of the Company or any subsidiary thereof.
Such notice, consent, document or communication shall be deemed given upon personal delivery or receipt at the address of the party stated above or at any other address specified by such party to the other party in writing, except that if delivery is refused or cannot be made for any reason, then such notice shall be deemed given on the third day after it is sent.
8.2
.
Executive Disclosures and Acknowledgments
(a)
.  Attached as Exhibit B is a list of prior obligations (written and oral), such as confidentiality agreements or covenants restricting future employment or consulting, that Executive has entered into which may restrict Executive's ability to perform Executive's duties as an employee for the Company.
Prior Obligations
(b)
.  Executive certifies that Executive has not, and will not, disclose or use during Executive's time as an employee of the Company, any confidential information which Executive acquired as a result of any previous employment or under a contractual obligation of confidentiality or secrecy before Executive became an employee of the Company.
Confidential Information of Others
(c)
.  By entering into this Agreement, Executive acknowledges the nature of the Company's business and the nature and scope of the restrictions set forth in Articles IV, V and VII, above, including specifically Wisconsin's Uniform Trade Secrets Act, presently  134.90,  Executive acknowledges and represents that the scope of such restrictions are appropriate, necessary and reasonable for the protection of the Company's business, goodwill, and property rights.  Executive further acknowledges that the restrictions imposed will not prevent Executive from earning a living in the event of, and after, termination, for whatever reason,
Scope of Restrictions
Wis. Stats.
of Executive's employment with the Company.  Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent Executive, after termination of Executive's employment with the Company, from using general skills and knowledge gained while employed by the Company.
(d)
.  Executive agrees, during the term of any restriction contained in Articles IV, V and VII, above, to disclose such provisions to any future or prospective employer.  Executive further agrees that the Company may send a copy of this Agreement to, or otherwise make the provisions hereof known to, any such employer.
Prospective Employers
8.3
.  Notwithstanding any termination of this Agreement, the Executive, in consideration of her employment hereunder, shall remain bound by the provisions of this Agreement which specifically relate to periods, activities or obligations upon or subsequent to the termination of the Executive's employment.
Effect of Termination
8.4
. Executive agrees that, with the exception of disclosures pursuant to Section 8.2(d), above, Executive will not disclose, directly or indirectly, any non-public terms of this Agreement to any third party; provided, however, that following Executive's obtaining a promise of confidentiality for the benefit of the Company from Executive's tax preparer, accountant, attorney and spouse, Executive may disclose such terms to such of these individuals who have made such a promise of confidentiality.  This provision shall not prevent Executive from disclosing such matters in testifying in any hearing, trial or other legal proceeding where Executive is required to do so.
Confidentiality of Agreement
8.5
.  Executive agrees to take all reasonable steps during and after Executive's employment with the Company to make himself/herself available to and to cooperate with the Company, at its request, in connection with any legal proceedings or other matters in which it is or may become involved.  Following Executive's employment with the Company, the Company agrees to pay reasonable compensation to Executive and to pay all reasonable expenses incurred by Executive in connection with Executive's obligations under this Section 8.5.
Cooperation
8.6
.  In the event that Executive breaches any provision of this Agreement, Executive agrees that the Company may suspend all payments to Executive under this Agreement (including any Severance Payment), recover from Executive any damages suffered as a result of such breach and recover from Executive any reasonable attorneys' fees or costs it incurs as a result of such breach.  In addition, Executive agrees that the Company may seek injunctive or other equitable relief, without the necessity of posting bond, as a result of a breach by Executive of any provision of this Agreement.
Effect of Breach
8.7
.  This Agreement contains the entire understanding and the full and complete agreement of the Parties and supersedes and replaces any prior understandings and agreements among the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.  The Executive Compensation Agreement previously entered into by Company and Executive is hereby declared null and void.
Entire Agreement
8.8
.  The headings of sections and paragraphs of this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of its provisions.
Headings
8.9
.  Execution of this Agreement is a condition of Executive's continued employment with the Company and Executive's continued employment by the Company, and the benefits provided to Executive under this Agreement, constitute the consideration for Executive's undertakings hereunder.
Consideration
8.10
.  This Agreement may be altered, amended or modified only in a writing, signed by both of the Parties hereto.
Amendment
8.11
.  This Agreement and the rights and duties set forth herein may not be assigned by Executive, but may be assigned by the Company, in whole or in part.  This Agreement shall be binding on and inure to the benefit of each party and such party's respective heirs, legal representatives, successors and assigns.
Assignability
8.12
.  If any court of competent jurisdiction determines that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable, then such invalidity or unenforceability shall have no effect on the other provisions hereof, which shall remain valid, binding and enforceable and in full force and effect, and such invalid or unenforceable provision shall be construed in a manner so as to give the maximum valid and enforceable effect to the intent of the Parties expressed therein.
Severability
8.13
.  The waiver by either party of the breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by either party.
Waiver of Breach
8.14
.  This Agreement shall be governed by the internal laws of the State of Wisconsin, without regard to any rules of construction concerning the draftsman hereof.
Governing Law; Construction
8.15
.  The Company and Executive intend that any amounts or benefits payable or provided under this Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the treasury regulations relating thereto so as not to subject Executive to the payment of the tax, interest and any tax penalty which may be imposed under Code Section 409A.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with such intent.  In furtherance thereof, to the extent that any provision hereof would otherwise result in Executive being subject to payment of tax, interest and tax penalty under Code Section 409A, the Company and Executive agree to amend this Agreement in a manner that brings this Agreement into compliance with Code Section 409A and preserves to the maximum extent possible the economic value of the relevant payment or benefit under this Agreement to Executive.
Section 409A Compliance
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year written above.
[Signatures on Following Page]
:
KOHL'S DEPARTMENT STORES, INC.
By: _____________________
/s/ KEVIN MANSELL
       
Kevin Mansell,
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
:
EXECUTIVE
By: _____________________
/s/ PEGGY ESKENASI
Peggy Eskenasi
 
Executive's annual base compensation as of the date of this Agreement is Eight Hundred Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($800,000.00).                  

Exhibit 10.4
THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is executed as of this 1 day of December, 2010, by and between Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and Kohl's Corporation (collectively referred to in this Agreement as "Company") and Wesley S. McDonald ("Executive").  
st
The Company desires to employ Employee, and Employee desires to be employed by the Company, on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
The parties believe it is in their best interests to make provision for certain aspects of their relationship during and after the period in which Employee is employed by the Company.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements and covenants contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged by the Company and Employee ("Parties"), the Parties agree as follows:
1.1
.  The Company employs Executive, and Executive accepts employment by the Company, for the three (3) year period commencing on December 1, 2010 (the "Initial Term"), subject to earlier termination as hereinafter set forth in Article III, below.  This Agreement shall be automatically extended for one (1) day each day during the term (the Initial Term as so extended, the "Renewal Term") unless either party shall give the other a written notice of intention not to renew, in which case this Agreement shall terminate as of the end of the Initial Term or said Renewal Term, as applicable or unless this Agreement is earlier terminated as set forth in Article III, below.  If this Agreement is extended, the terms of this Agreement during such Renewal Term shall be the same as the terms in effect immediately prior to s uch extension (including the early termination provisions set forth in Article III, below), subject to any such changes or modifications as mutually may be agreed between the Parties as evidenced in a written instrument signed by both the Company and Executive.  If Executive's employment is terminated for any reason specified in Section 3.1, below, after either party has provided a notice of non-renewal under this Section 1.1, such termination will be treated as a termination under the applicable provision of Section 3.1 and not as a termination due to non-renewal under this Section 1.1.
Term of Employment
1.2
.  Executive shall be employed in the position of Senior Executive Vice President, and shall be subject to the authority of, and shall report to, the Company's Chief Merchandising Officer and/orBoard of Directors (the "Board").  Executive's duties and responsibilities shall include all those customarily attendant to the position of Senior Executive Vice President and such other duties and responsibilities as may be assigned from time to time by Employee's supervisor and/or the Company's Board.  Executive shall devote Executive's entire business time, attention and energies exclusively to the business interests of the Company while employed by the Company except as otherwise specifically approved in writing by Employee's supervisor and/or the Company's Board.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, Executive may not participate on the board of directors or any similar governing body of any for-profit entity other than the Company, unless first approved by the Company's Board.  
Position and Duties
 
2.1
.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, the Company shall pay Executive an annual base salary as described in Exhibit A (a copy of which is attached hereto and incorporated herein), payable in accordance with the normal payroll practices and schedule of the Company ("Base Salary").  The Base Salary shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as determined by the Board.
Base Salary
2.2
.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, Executive will be eligible to participate in the plans, programs and policies including, without limitation, group medical insurance, fringe benefits, paid vacation, expense reimbursement and incentive pay plans, which the Company makes available to senior executives of the Company in accordance with the eligibility requirements, terms and conditions of such plans, programs and policies in effect from time to time.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company may amend, modify or terminate any of such plans, programs and policies at any time at its discretion.
Benefit Plans and Fringe Benefits
2.3
.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, Executive may be eligible to participate in stock option, phantom stock, restricted stock or other similar equity incentive plans or programs which the Company may establish from time to time.  The terms of any such plans or programs, and Executive's eligibility to participate in them, shall be established by the Board at its sole discretion.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company may amend, modify or terminate any of such plans or programs at any time at its discretion.
Equity Plans or Programs
In no event will the reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided by the Company pursuant to this Agreement in one taxable year affect the amount of reimbursements or in-kind benefits to be provided in any other taxable year, nor will Executive's right to reimbursement or in-kind benefits be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.  Further, any reimbursements to be provided by the Company pursuant to this Agreement shall be paid to the Executive no later than the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Executive incurs the expenses.
3.1
.
Right to Terminate; Automatic Termination
(a)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, the Company may terminate Executive's employment and all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement at any time and for any reason.
Termination Without Cause
(b)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, the Company may terminate Executive's employment and all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement at any time for Cause (defined below) by giving notice to Executive stating the basis for such termination, effective immediately upon giving such notice or at such other time thereafter as the Company may designate.  "Cause" shall mean any of the following:  (i) Executive's continuous failure to
Termination For Cause
substantially perform Executive's duties after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to Executive that specifically identifies the manner in which the Company believes that Executive has not substantially performed his/her duties, and Executive has failed to demonstrate substantial efforts to resume substantial performance of Executive's duties on a continuous basis within sixty (60) calendar days after receiving such demand; (ii) Executive's violation of a material provision of "Kohl's Ethical Standards and Responsibilities" which is materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise; (iii) any dishonest or fraudulent conduct which results, or is intended to result, in gain to Executive or Executive's personal enrichment at the expense of the Company; (iv) any material breach of this Agreement by Executive after a written notice of such br each is delivered to Executive that specifically identifies the manner in which the Company believes that Executive has breached this Agreement, and Executive has failed to cure such breach within thirty (30) calendar days after receiving such demand; provided, however, that no cure period shall be required for breaches of Articles IV, V, VI or VII, below, of this Agreement; or (v) conviction of Executive, after all applicable rights of appeal have been exhausted or waived, of any crime.  Notwithstanding the conviction of a crime as described in the preceding subsection (v), the Board, in its sole discretion, may waive such termination in the event it determines that such crime does not discredit the Company or is not detrimental to the Company's reputation or goodwill, and any decision by the Board with respect to such waiver shall be final.
(c)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, Executive may terminate Executive's employment and all of the Company's obligations under this Agreement at any time for Good Reason (defined below) by giving written notice to the Company stating the basis for such termination, effective immediately upon giving such notice.  "Good Reason" shall mean any of the following: (i) a material reduction in Executive's status, title, position, responsibilities or Base Salary; (ii) any material breach by the Company of this Agreement; (iii) any purported termination of the Executive's employment for Cause which does not comply with the terms of this Agreement; or (iv) a mandatory relocation of Executive's employment with the Company from the Milwaukee, Wisconsin area, except for travel reasonably required in the performance of Executive 46;s duties and responsibilities; provided, however, that no termination shall be for Good Reason until Executive has provided the Company with written notice of the conduct alleged to have caused Good Reason and at least thirty (30) calendar days have elapsed after the Company's receipt of such written notice from Executive, during which the Company has failed to demonstrate substantial efforts to cure any such alleged conduct.
Termination for Good Reason
(d)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, Executive's employment and the Company's obligations under this Agreement shall terminate automatically, effective immediately and without any notice being necessary, upon Executive's death or a determination of Disability of Executive.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" means the Executive: (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, or (ii) has been, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, receiving income re placement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Company.   A determination of Disability shall be made by the Company, which may, at its sole discretion, consult with a physician or physicians satisfactory to the Company, and Executive shall cooperate with any efforts to make such
Termination by Death or Disability
determination.  Any such determination shall be conclusive and binding on the parties.  Any determination of Disability under this Section 3.1(d) is not intended to alter any benefits any party may be entitled to receive under any disability insurance policy carried by either the Company or Executive with respect to Executive, which benefits shall be governed solely by the terms of any such insurance policy.
(e)
.  Subject to Section 3.2, below, Executive's employment and the Company's obligations under this Agreement shall terminate automatically, effective immediately upon Executive's provision of written notice to the Company of Executive's resignation from employment with the Company or at such other time as may be mutually agreed between the Parties following the provision of such notice.
Termination by Resignation
(f)  
.  A termination of employment under this Agreement shall only occur to the extent Executive has a "separation from service" from Company in accordance with Section 409A of the Code.  Under Section 409A, a "separation from service" occurs when Executive and the Company reasonably anticipate that no further services will be performed by Executive after a certain date or that the level of bona fide services Executive would perform after such date (whether as an employee or as a consultant) would permanently decrease to no more than 20 percent of the average level of bona fide services performed by Executive over the immediately preceding 36-month period.
Separation of Service
3.2
.
Rights Upon Termination
(a)
.  If Executive's employment is terminated by the Company pursuant to Section 3.1(b), above, by Executive pursuant to Section 3.1(e), above, or due to non-renewal by Executive pursuant to Section 1.1, above, Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (i) any unpaid Base Salary with respect to the period prior to the effective date of termination together with payment of any vacation that Executive has accrued but not used through the date of termination; (ii) reimbursement of expenses to which Executive is entitled under Section 2.2, above; and (iii) Executive's unpaid bonus, if any, attributable to any complete fiscal year of the Company ended before the date of termination (in the aggregate, th e "Accrued Benefits").  Any such bonus payment shall be made at the same time as any such bonus is paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company.  Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(a), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive ceases on the effective date of termination, and any unvested stock options lapse and are forfeited immediately upon the effective date of termination.
Termination By Company for Cause, By Executive Other Than For Good Reason or By Executive's Non-Renewal
(b)
.  If Executive's employment is terminated due to non-renewal by the Company pursuant to Section 1.1, above, or due to Executive's death pursuant to Section 3.1(d), above, Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (i) Accrued Benefits; and (ii) a share of any bonus attributable to the fiscal year of the Company during which the effective date of termination occurs determined as follows:  the product of (x) the average bonuses paid or payable, including any amounts that were deferred in respect of the three (3) fiscal years immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the effective date of termination occurs (the "Recent Average Bonus") and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days completed in the fiscal year in which the
Termination By Company's Non-Renewal or Due to Executive's Death
effective date of termination occurs through the effective date of termination and the denominator of which is three hundred sixty-five (365) (the "Pro Rata Bonus").  Such Pro Rata Bonus shall be paid at the same time as any such bonuses are paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company.  Executive shall also be entitled to a severance payment equal to fifty percent (50%) of Executive's Base Salary payable for one (1) year following the effective date of termination pursuant to normal payroll practices.  Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(b), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive shall cease on the effective date of termination, and any unvested stock options shall lapse and be forfeited as of such date; provided, however, that if Executive's termination is due to Executive's death, all Company stock options granted to Executive sh all immediately vest upon the date of Executive's death.
(c)
.  If Executive's employment is terminated due to Executive's Disability pursuant to Section 3.1(d), above, Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (i) Accrued Benefits; (ii) the Pro Rata Bonus; plus; (iii) a Severance Benefit.  The Pro Rata Bonus payment shall be made at the same time as any such bonuses are paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company.  For purposes of this Section 3.2(c), "Severance Benefit" means six (6) months of Base Salary, payable in equal installments during the six (6) month period following Executive's exhaustion of any short-term disability benefits provided by the Company, in accordance with the normal payroll practices and schedule of the Company.  The amount of such Severance Benefit shall be reduced by any compensa tion (including any payments from the Company or any benefit plans, policies or programs sponsored by the Company) earned or received by Executive during the six (6) month period following the date of termination and the six (6) month period during which Executive receives the Severance Benefit, and Executive agrees to reimburse the Company for the amount of any such reduction.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that, upon the cessation, if any, of such Disability during the period of the payment of the Severance Benefit, he/she has an obligation to use his/her reasonable efforts to secure other employment consistent with Executive's status and experience and that his/her failure to do so, as determined at the sole discretion of the Board, is a breach of this Agreement.  Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(c), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive shall cease on the effective date of termination, and any unvested stock options shall lapse and be forfeited as of such date.
Termination Due to Disability
(d)
.
Termination By Company Without Cause or By Executive for Good Reason
i.
.  If Executive's employment is terminated by the Company pursuant to Section 3.1(a), above, or by Executive pursuant to Section 3.1(c), above, and such termination does not occur three (3) months prior to or within one (1) year after the occurrence of a Change of Control (defined below), Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (A) Accrued Benefits; (B) a Severance Payment (defined below); (C) the Pro Rata Bonus; provided, however, that the Pro Rata Bonus payment shall be made at the same time as any such bonuses are paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company; (D) outplacement services from an outplacement service company of the Company's choosing at a cost not to exceed Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000.00), payable directly to such outplacement service company (&# 147;Outplacement Services"); and (E) Health Insurance Continuation (defined below) for a period of two (2) years following the effective date of Executive's termination.  
No Change of Control
For purposes of this Section 3.2(d)(i), "Severance Payment" means an amount equal to the sum of:
(x) Executive's Base Salary for the remainder of the then current Initial Term or Renewal Term of this Agreement, but not to exceed two and nine-tenths (2.9) years; plus
(y) an amount equal to the average (calculated at the sole discretion of the Company) of the three (3) most recent annual incentive compensation plan payments, if any, paid to Executive prior to the effective date of termination.                                                      
The Severance Payment shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum within thirty (30) days after the effective date of termination, subject to Section 3.2(e) below.
Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(d)(i), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive prior to the date of termination shall continue as scheduled until the term of this Agreement expires, after which such vesting ceases and any unvested stock options lapse and are forfeited.
ii.
.  If Executive's employment is terminated by the Company pursuant to Section 3.1(a), above, or by the Executive pursuant to Section 3.1(c), above, and such termination occurs within three (3) months prior to or one (1) year after the occurrence of a Change of Control (defined below), Executive shall have no further rights against the Company hereunder, except for the right to receive (A) Accrued Benefits; (B) a Severance Payment (defined below); (C) the Pro Rata Bonus; provided, however, that such bonus payments shall be made at the same time as any such bonuses are paid to other similarly situated executives of the Company; (D) Health Insurance Continuation (defined below) for a period of one (1) year following the effective date of Executive's termination; and (E) Outplacement Services.  
Change of Control
For purposes of this Section 3.2(d)(ii), "Severance Payment" means an amount equal to the sum of:
(x) Executive's Base Salary for the period of time equal to the remainder of the then-current Renewal Term, but not to exceed two and nine-tenths (2.9) years; plus
(y) an amount equal to the average (calculated at the sole discretion of the Company) of the three (3) most recent annual incentive compensation plan payments, if any, paid to Executive prior to the effective date of termination times the number of years, rounded to the nearest tenth, remaining in the then-current Renewal Term, but not to exceed two and nine-tenths (2.9).  
The Severance Payment shall be paid to Executive in a lump sum within thirty (30) days after the effective date of termination, subject to Section 3.2(e) below.
Furthermore, under this Section 3.2(d)(ii), vesting of any Company stock options granted to Executive prior to termination shall occur immediately upon the date of termination.
iii.
.  "Change of Control" means the occurrence of (1) the acquisition (other than from the Company) by any person, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act")), other than the Company, a subsidiary of the Company or any employee benefit plan or plans sponsored by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, directly or indirectly, of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Exchange Act Rule 13d-3) of thirty-three percent (33%) or more of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or voting securities representing thirty-three percent (33%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities ordinarily entitled to vote in the election of directors unless the Incumbent Board (def ined below), before such acquisition or within thirty (30) days thereafter, deems such acquisition not to be a Change of Control; or (2) individuals who, as of the date of this Agreement, constitute the Board (as of such date, "Incumbent Board") ceasing for any reason to constitute at least a majority of such Board; provided, however, that any person becoming a director subsequent to the date of this Agreement whose election, or nomination for election by the shareholders of the Company, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be for purposes of this Agreement, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest which was (or, if threatened, would have been) subject to Exchange Act Rule 14a-12(c); or (3) the consummation of any merger, consolidation or share exchange o f the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger, consolidation or share exchange which results in more than sixty percent (60%) of the outstanding shares of the common stock, and voting securities representing more than sixty percent (60%) of the combined voting power of then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, of the surviving, consolidated or resulting corporation being then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by the persons who were the Company's shareholders immediately prior to such transaction in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such transaction, of the Company's then outstanding Common Stock or then outstanding voting securities, as the case may be; or (4) the consummation of any liquidation or dissolution of the Company or a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
Definition  Change of Control
Following the occurrence of an event which is not a Change of Control whereby there is a successor company to the Company, or if there is no such successor whereby the Company is not the surviving corporation in a merger or consolidation, the surviving corporation or successor holding company (as the case may be), for purposes of this Agreement, shall thereafter be referred to as the Company.
(iv)
.  For purposes of Sections 3.2(d)(i) and 3.2(d)(ii) above, the term "Health Insurance Continuation" means that, if Executive (and Executive's eligible dependents), following termination from employment under Sections 3.2(d)(i) and 3.2(d)(ii) above, timely elects to participate in the Company's group health insurance plans pursuant to the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended ("COBRA"), the Company will pay the normal monthly employer's cost of coverage under the Company's group health insurance plans for full-time employees toward such COBRA coverage for the specified period of time, if any, set forth in Sections 3.2(d)(i) and 3.2(d)(ii).  If the specified period of time provided for in this Agreement is
Definition  Health Insurance Continuation
longer than the end of the 18-month period for which Executive is eligible for COBRA, the Company will, until the end of such longer period, pay the normal monthly employer's cost of coverage under the Company's group health insurance plans to, at its sole discretion, allow Executive to continue to participate in such plans (if allowed by law and the Company's policies, plans and programs) or allow Executive to purchase reasonably comparable individual health insurance coverage through the end of such longer period.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that Executive is responsible for paying the balance of any costs not paid for by the Company under this Agreement which are associated with Executive's participation in the Company's health insurance plans or individual health insurance and that Executive's failure to pay such costs may result in the ter mination of Executive's participation in such plans or insurance.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company may deduct from any Severance Payment Executive receives pursuant to this Agreement, amounts that Executive is responsible to pay for Health Insurance Continuation.  Any Health Insurance Continuation provided for herein will cease on the date on which Executive becomes eligible for health insurance coverage under another employer's group health insurance plan, and, within five (5) calendar days of Executive becoming eligible for health insurance coverage under another employer's group health insurance plan, Executive agrees to inform the Company of such fact in writing.
In no event will the Health Insurance Continuation to be provided by the Company pursuant to this Agreement in one taxable year affect the amount of Health Insurance Continuation to be provided in any other taxable year, nor will Executive's right to Health Insurance Continuation be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
(e)
.  If amounts paid to Executive pursuant to any Subsection of Section 3.2 would be subject to a penalty under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code because Executive is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), such payments will be delayed until a date which is six (6) months after Executive's termination of employment, at which point any such delayed payments will be paid to Executive in a lump sum.  
Delay of Payments if Required by Section 409A
3.3
.  Upon termination of employment, for whatever reason, or upon request by the Company at any time, Executive shall immediately return to the Company all documents, records, and materials belonging and/or relating to the Company, and all copies of all such materials.  Upon termination of employment, for whatever reason, or upon request by the Company at any time, Executive further agrees to destroy such records maintained by Executive on Executive's own computer equipment.
Return of Records
3.4
.  As a condition to the receipt of any amounts or benefits after termination of employment for whatever reason, Executive, or his personal representative, shall be required to execute a written release agreement in a form satisfactory to the Company containing, among other items, a general release of claims against the Company and, as an additional condition to the receipt of such amounts or benefits, Executive shall not have exercised any right to revoke such release agreement during any applicable rescission period.
Release
4.1
.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that, as an integral part of its business, the Company has expended a great deal of time, money and effort to develop and maintain confidential, proprietary and trade secret information to compete against similar businesses and that this information, if misused or disclosed, would be harmful to the Company's business and competitive position in the marketplace.  Executive further acknowledges and agrees that in Executive's position with the Company, the Company provides Executive with access to its confidential, proprietary and trade secret information, strategies and other confidential business information that would be of considerable value to competitive businesses.  As a result, Executive acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this Article IV are reasonable, appropriate and necessary for the protection of the Company's confidential, proprietary and trade secret information.  For purposes of this Article IV, the term "Company" means Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and its parent companies, subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Acknowledgments
4.2.
.During the term of Executive's employment under this Agreement, Executive will not directly or indirectly use or disclose any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets (defined below) except in the interest and for the benefit of the Company.  After the termination, for whatever reason, of Executive's employment with the Company, Executive will not directly or indirectly use or disclose any Trade Secrets unless such information ceases to be deemed a Trade Secret by means of one of the exceptions set forth in Section 4.3(c), below.  For a period of two (2) years following termination, for whatever reason, of Executive's employment with the Company, Executive will not directly or indirectly use or disclose any Confidential Information, unless such information ceases to be deemed Confidential Information by means of one of the exceptions set forth in Section 4.3(c), below.
Confidentiality Obligations
 
4.3
.
Definitions
(a)
.  The term "Trade Secret" shall have that meaning set forth under applicable law.  This term is deemed by the Company to specifically include all of Company's computer source, object or other code and any confidential information received from a third party with whom the Company has a binding agreement restricting disclosure of such confidential information.
Trade Secret
(b)
.  The term "Confidential Information" shall mean all non-Trade Secret or proprietary information of the Company which has value to the Company and which is not known to the public or the Company's competitors, generally, including, but not limited to, strategic growth plans, pricing policies and strategies, employment records and policies, operational methods, marketing plans and strategies, advertising plans and strategies, product development techniques and plans, business acquisition and divestiture plans, resources, sources of supply, suppliers and supplier contractual relationships and terms, technical processes, designs, inventions, research programs and results, source code, short-term and long-range planning, projections, information systems, sales objectives and performance, profits and profit margins, and seasonal plans, goals and objectives.
Confidential Information
(c)
.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the terms "Trade Secret" and "Confidential Information" shall not include, and the obligations set forth in this Article IV shall not apply to, any information which: (i) can be demonstrated by Executive to have been known by Executive prior to Executive's employment by the Company; (ii) is or becomes generally available to the public through no act or omission of Executive; (iii) is obtained by Executive in good faith from a third party who discloses such information to Executive on a non-confidential basis without violating any obligation of confidentiality or secrecy relating to the information disclosed; or (iv) is independently developed by Executive outside the scope of Executive's employment without use of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.
Exclusions
5.1
.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company is one of the leading retail companies in the United States, with department stores throughout the United States, and that the Company compensates executives like Executive to, among other things, develop and maintain valuable goodwill and relationships on the Company's behalf (including relationships with customers, suppliers, vendors, employees and other associates) and to maintain business information for the Company's exclusive ownership and use.  As a result, Executive acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this Article V are reasonable, appropriate and necessary for the protection of the Company's goodwill, customer, supplier, vendor, employee and other associate relationships and Confidential Information and Trade Secrets.  Executive further acknowledges and agrees that the restric tions contained in this Article V will not pose an undue hardship on Executive or Executive's ability to find gainful employment.  For purposes of this Article V, the term "Company" means Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and its parent companies, subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Acknowledgments
5.2
.  During the Initial Term and the Renewal Term and for the one (1) year period following termination, for whatever reason, of Executive's employment with the Company, Executive will not, directly or indirectly, provide Restricted Services (defined below) for or on behalf of any Competitive Business (defined below) or directly or indirectly, provide any Competitive Business with any advice or counsel in the nature of the Restricted Services.
Restricted Services Obligation
5.3
.  For purposes of this Article V, the following are defined terms:
Definitions
(a)
.  "Restricted Services" shall mean services of any kind or character comparable to those Executive provided to the Company during the eighteen (18) month period immediately preceding Executive's last date of employment with the Company.
Restricted Services
(b)
.  "Competitive Business" shall mean each of the following entities:  J.C. Penney Company, Inc., Macy's, Inc., The Gap, Inc., Target Corporation, Sears Holdings Corporation, and any successors, subsidiaries or affiliates of these entities engaged in the operation of national retail department stores.
Competitive Business
6.1
.  Executive shall immediately disclose to the Company a list of all inventions, patents, applications for patent, copyrights, and applications for copyright in which Executive currently holds an interest.  The Company will own, and Executive hereby assigns to the Company, all rights in all Business Ideas.  All Business Ideas which are or form the basis for copyrightable works shall be considered "works for hire" as that term is defined by United States Copyright Law.  Any works that are not found to be "works for hire" are hereby assigned to the Company.  While employed by the Company and for one (1) year thereafter, Executive will promptly disclose all Business Ideas to the Company and execute all documents which the Company may reasonably require to perfect its patent, copyright and other rights to such Business Ideas throughout t he world.  After Executive's employment with the Company terminates, for whatever reason, Executive will cooperate with the Company to assist the Company in perfecting its rights to any Business Ideas including executing all documents which the Company may reasonably require.  For purposes of this Article VI, the term "Company" means Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and its parent companies, subsidiaries and other affiliates.
Assignment of Business Ideas
6.2
.  The term "Business Ideas" as used in this Agreement means all ideas, inventions, data, software, developments and copyrightable works, whether or not patentable or registrable, which Executive originates, discovers or develops, either alone or jointly with others while Executive is employed by the Company and for one (1) year thereafter and which are (a) related to any business known by Executive to be engaged in or contemplated by the Company, (b) originated, discovered or developed during Executive's working hours during his employment with the Company, or (c) originated, discovered or developed in whole or in part using materials, labor, facilities, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets, or equipment furnished by the Company.
Business Ideas
6.3
.  Executive agrees not to engage at any time in any form of conduct or make any statements or representations, or direct any other person or entity to engage in any conduct or make any statements or representations, that disparage, criticize or otherwise impair the reputation of the Company, its affiliates, parents and subsidiaries and their respective past and present officers, directors, stockholders, partners, members, agents and employees.  Nothing contained in this Section 6.3 shall preclude Executive from providing truthful testimony or statements pursuant to subpoena or other legal process or in response to inquiries from any government agency or entity.
Non-Disparagement
During the term of Executive's employment with the Company and for one (1) year thereafter, Executive shall not directly or indirectly encourage any Company employee to terminate his/her employment with the Company unless Executive does so in the course of performing his duties for the Company and such encouragement is in the Company's best interests.  For purposes of this Article VII, the term "Company" means Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. and its parent companies, subsidiaries and other affiliates.
8.1
.  Any and all notices, consents, documents or communications provided for in this Agreement shall be given in writing and shall be personally delivered, mailed by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) or sent by courier, confirmed by receipt, and addressed as follows (or to such other address as the addressed party may have substituted by notice pursuant to this Section 8.1):
Notices
(a) If to the Company:
Kohl's Department Stores, Inc.
N56 W17000 Ridgewood Drive
Menomonee Falls, WI  53051
Attn:  Richard D. Schepp, General Counsel
(b) If to Executive:
Any notice to be given to the Executive may be addressed to him at the address as it appears on the payroll records of the Company or any subsidiary thereof.
Such notice, consent, document or communication shall be deemed given upon personal delivery or receipt at the address of the party stated above or at any other address specified by such party to the other party in writing, except that if delivery is refused or cannot be made for any reason, then such notice shall be deemed given on the third day after it is sent.
8.2
.
Executive Disclosures and Acknowledgments
(a)
.  Attached as Exhibit B is a list of prior obligations (written and oral), such as confidentiality agreements or covenants restricting future employment or consulting, that Executive has entered into which may restrict Executive's ability to perform Executive's duties as an employee for the Company.
Prior Obligations
(b)
.  Executive certifies that Executive has not, and will not, disclose or use during Executive's time as an employee of the Company, any confidential information which Executive acquired as a result of any previous employment or under a contractual obligation of confidentiality or secrecy before Executive became an employee of the Company.
Confidential Information of Others
(c)
.  By entering into this Agreement, Executive acknowledges the nature of the Company's business and the nature and scope of the restrictions set forth in Articles IV, V and VII, above, including specifically Wisconsin's Uniform Trade Secrets Act, presently  134.90,  Executive acknowledges and represents that the scope of such restrictions are appropriate, necessary and reasonable for the protection of the Company's business, goodwill, and property rights.  Executive further acknowledges that the restrictions imposed will not prevent Executive from earning a living in the event of, and after, termination, for whatever reason,
Scope of Restrictions
Wis. Stats.
of Executive's employment with the Company.  Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent Executive, after termination of Executive's employment with the Company, from using general skills and knowledge gained while employed by the Company.
(d)
.  Executive agrees, during the term of any restriction contained in Articles IV, V and VII, above, to disclose such provisions to any future or prospective employer.  Executive further agrees that the Company may send a copy of this Agreement to, or otherwise make the provisions hereof known to, any such employer.
Prospective Employers
8.3
.  Notwithstanding any termination of this Agreement, the Executive, in consideration of his employment hereunder, shall remain bound by the provisions of this Agreement which specifically relate to periods, activities or obligations upon or subsequent to the termination of the Executive's employment.
Effect of Termination
8.4
. Executive agrees that, with the exception of disclosures pursuant to Section 8.2(d), above, Executive will not disclose, directly or indirectly, any non-public terms of this Agreement to any third party; provided, however, that following Executive's obtaining a promise of confidentiality for the benefit of the Company from Executive's tax preparer, accountant, attorney and spouse, Executive may disclose such terms to such of these individuals who have made such a promise of confidentiality.  This provision shall not prevent Executive from disclosing such matters in testifying in any hearing, trial or other legal proceeding where Executive is required to do so.
Confidentiality of Agreement
8.5
.  Executive agrees to take all reasonable steps during and after Executive's employment with the Company to make himself/herself available to and to cooperate with the Company, at its request, in connection with any legal proceedings or other matters in which it is or may become involved.  Following Executive's employment with the Company, the Company agrees to pay reasonable compensation to Executive and to pay all reasonable expenses incurred by Executive in connection with Executive's obligations under this Section 8.5.
Cooperation
8.6
.  In the event that Executive breaches any provision of this Agreement, Executive agrees that the Company may suspend all payments to Executive under this Agreement (including any Severance Payment), recover from Executive any damages suffered as a result of such breach and recover from Executive any reasonable attorneys' fees or costs it incurs as a result of such breach.  In addition, Executive agrees that the Company may seek injunctive or other equitable relief, without the necessity of posting bond, as a result of a breach by Executive of any provision of this Agreement.
Effect of Breach
8.7
.  This Agreement contains the entire understanding and the full and complete agreement of the Parties and supersedes and replaces any prior understandings and agreements among the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.  The Executive Compensation Agreement previously entered into by Company and Executive is hereby declared null and void.
Entire Agreement
8.8
.  The headings of sections and paragraphs of this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of its provisions.
Headings
8.9
.  Execution of this Agreement is a condition of Executive's continued employment with the Company and Executive's continued employment by the Company, and the benefits provided to Executive under this Agreement, constitute the consideration for Executive's undertakings hereunder.
Consideration
8.10
.  This Agreement may be altered, amended or modified only in a writing, signed by both of the Parties hereto.
Amendment
8.11
.  This Agreement and the rights and duties set forth herein may not be assigned by Executive, but may be assigned by the Company, in whole or in part.  This Agreement shall be binding on and inure to the benefit of each party and such party's respective heirs, legal representatives, successors and assigns.
Assignability
8.12
.  If any court of competent jurisdiction determines that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable, then such invalidity or unenforceability shall have no effect on the other provisions hereof, which shall remain valid, binding and enforceable and in full force and effect, and such invalid or unenforceable provision shall be construed in a manner so as to give the maximum valid and enforceable effect to the intent of the Parties expressed therein.
Severability
8.13
.  The waiver by either party of the breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by either party.
Waiver of Breach
8.14
.  This Agreement shall be governed by the internal laws of the State of Wisconsin, without regard to any rules of construction concerning the draftsman hereof.
Governing Law; Construction
8.15
.  The Company and Executive intend that any amounts or benefits payable or provided under this Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the treasury regulations relating thereto so as not to subject Executive to the payment of the tax, interest and any tax penalty which may be imposed under Code Section 409A.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with such intent.  In furtherance thereof, to the extent that any provision hereof would otherwise result in Executive being subject to payment of tax, interest and tax penalty under Code Section 409A, the Company and Executive agree to amend this Agreement in a manner that brings this Agreement into compliance with Code Section 409A and preserves to the maximum extent possible the economic value of the relevant payment or benefit under this Agreement to Executive.
Section 409A Compliance
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year written above.
[Signatures on Following Page]
:
KOHL'S DEPARTMENT STORES, INC.
By: _____________________
/s/ KEVIN MANSELL
       
Kevin Mansell,
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
:
EXECUTIVE
By: ________________
/s/ WESLEY S. MCDONALD
Wesley S. McDonald
 
Executive's annual base compensation as of the date of this Agreement is Eight Hundred Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($800,000.00).                  


