FILE:KSS/KSS-8K-20110811075046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02.  .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 11, 2011, Kohl's Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release reporting its earnings for the second quarter ended July 30, 2011 and giving earnings guidance for the third quarter and the remainder of the fiscal year.  The earnings reported for the second quarter and the guidance for the remainder of the fiscal year do not include the effects of accounting corrections resulting from recently identified errors in the Company's accounting for its leases, as described below in Item 4.02.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this Item 2.02, including the exhibit attached hereto, is furnished solely pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.  Consequently, such information is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.  Further, the information in this Item 2.02, including the exhibit, shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the registrant under the Securities Act of 1933.
Item 4.02 .
Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
As reported by the Company in its current report on Form 8-K furnished to the Commission on August 4, 2011, the Company has identified certain errors related to its accounting for leases.  On August 9, 2011, the audit committee of the Company's board of directors, in consultation with management, concluded that because of these errors, investors should no longer rely upon the financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011 (the "2010 Annual Report") or the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended April 30, 2011 (the "1 Quarter 10-Q").   In addition, any related reports of the Company's independent registered public accounting firm (Ernst & Young LLP) should not be relied upon.
st
The Company has discovered various errors in its accounting for both store and equipment leases.  The most significant errors are the result of misinterpretations of accounting literature related to leases where the lessee (the Company in this case) is involved in asset construction.  Historically, the Company has been extensively involved in the construction of leased stores.   In many cases, the Company is responsible for construction cost over runs or is responsible for non-standard tenant improvements (i.e. roof or HVAC systems).  Pursuant to ASC 840, , the Company is deemed the "owner" for accounting purposes during the construction period, so is required to capitalize the construction costs on its Balance Sheet.  If a portion of the construction costs are reimbursed via adjusted rental payments rather than at the time of construction or if the property is subject to a lease which fixes the rents for a significant percentage of its economic life, the Company is precluded from derecognizing the constructed assets from its Balance Sheet when construction is complete.   
Leases
Additionally, certain stores and equipment leases were improperly recorded as operating leases, rather than capital leases.
As a result of these and other less significant accounting corrections, the Company will record additional property and financing obligations on its Balance Sheet.  In the Company's Statements of Income, lease payments will be recognized as depreciation and interest expense, rather than rent expense (which the Company records in Selling, General and Administrative Expense).  The corrections will have no impact on the net increase or decrease in cash and cash equivalents reported in the Company's Statements of Cash Flows.  
The Company, in conjunction with Ernst & Young LLP, is still in the process of completing a review of its historic lease accounting and is currently unable to provide reasonable estimates of the impact by reporting period and/or financial statement line item.  
In conjunction with Ernst & Young LLP, the Company is working diligently to complete the restatement of the above-referenced financial statements. The Company expects to file its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 30, 2011 (the "2nd Quarter 10-Q") and  the restated 2010 Annual Report and 1st Quarter 10-Q, by no later than September 13, 2011, the expiration date of the extension period provided by Rule 12b-25 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. However, there can be no assurance that these filings will be made within this period.
Management has considered, and is continuing to evaluate, the effect of the facts leading to the restatement on the Company's prior conclusions of the adequacy of its internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of each of the applicable restatement periods. A final conclusion with respect to the effectiveness of the Company's internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures has not been made, but management currently expects to conclude that one or more material weaknesses in such controls and procedures was present during each of the applicable restatement periods. The Company will amend any disclosures pertaining to its evaluation of such controls and procedures as appropriate in connection with future filings.
A copy of the press release issued on August 11, 2011 announcing the foregoing information is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 7.01   .
Regulation FD Disclosure
See Item 2.02 above.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This current report on Form 8-K contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including guidance on the Company's targeted earnings, statements regarding the Company's intent to restate its prior financial reports, the nature of the estimated adjustments of the restated financial reports and the expected timing of filing the restated financial reports.  The Company intends forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "anticipates," "plans," or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, which could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements. These risks and
uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risk that additional information may arise during the course of  the Company's lease accounting review that  would require the Company to make additional adjustments, the time and effort required to complete the restatement of the financial reports as well as other risks described more fully in Item 1A in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is expressly incorporated herein by reference, and other factors as may periodically be described in the Company's filings with the SEC.
Item 9.01.  .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
      
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  August 11, 2011
KOHL'S CORPORATION
By:
 /s/ Richard D. Schepp                           
Richard D. Schepp
Sr. Executive Vice President
General Counsel and Secretary

Exhibit 99.1
Second Quarter Diluted Earnings per Share Increases 30% over prior year
Raises Annual Diluted Earnings per Share Guidance to $4.45 to $4.60 from $4.25 to $4.40
MENOMONEE FALLS, WI  August 11/BUSINESS WIRE/Kohl's Corporation (NYSE:KSS). Kohl's Corporation today reported results for the fiscal periods ended July 30, 2011.
Second Quarter Results
Kohl's Corporation reported second quarter diluted earnings per share increased 30 percent to $1.09.  Net income for the quarter was $303 million, compared with $260 million ($0.84 per diluted share) a year ago.  Net sales were $4.2 billion, an increase of 3.6 percent over the comparable prior year quarter.  Comparable store sales for the quarter increased 1.9 percent.  
On a year-to-date basis, diluted earnings per share increased 22 percent to $1.81.  Net income was $514 million, compared with $459 million ($1.48 per diluted share) for the first six months of fiscal 2010.  Net sales were $8.4 billion, an increase of 3.4 percent.  Year-to-date comparable store sales increased 1.6 percent.
These second quarter and year-to-date results are preliminary to the extent that they do not reflect the impact of any of the lease accounting corrections described below.
Kevin Mansell, Kohl's chairman, president and chief executive officer, said, "I am extremely pleased with our ability to deliver strong earnings growth in a challenging sales environment.  Our gross margin rate increased significantly over second quarter of last year as a result of our increased penetration of private and exclusive brands and disciplined inventory management.  Prudent expense management across many of our areas, especially in stores, allowed us to achieve lower-than-planned expense growth.  We continue to benefit from strong profitability in our credit card partnership with Capital One as bad debt expenses declined significantly over last year."
Mansell added, "We are very excited about the introduction of our Jennifer Lopez and Marc Anthony brands which will launch in all stores nationwide and on-line in mid-September with our Anniversary sale.  We believe that both brands will resonate strongly with our existing customers and drive new customers into our stores."
Quarterly Dividend Declared
On August 9, 2011, Kohl's Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share of Kohl's common stock.  The dividend is payable September 28, 2011 to shareholders of record at the close of business on September 7, 2011.  
Store Update
Kohl's ended the quarter with 1,097 stores in 49 states, compared with 1,067 stores at the same time last year.  During the first half of the year, Kohl's opened nine stores and completed the remodel of 85 stores.  The Company expects to open an additional 31 stores and remodel an additional 15 stores next month.
Earnings Guidance
For the third quarter, Kohl's expects total sales to increase between 4 and 6 percent; comparable store sales to increase 2 to 4 percent; and gross margin as a percent of sales of down (10) basis points to up 10 basis points over last year.   Selling, general and administrative expenses are expected to increase between 1.5 and 3 percent.  Assuming share repurchases of approximately $500 million in the third quarter, achieving these assumptions would result in earnings per diluted share of $0.76 to $0.82 for the third quarter.  
As a result of its second quarter performance and its third quarter share repurchase estimate, Kohl's is increasing its fiscal 2011 guidance from $4.25 - $4.40 per diluted share to $4.45 to $4.60 per diluted share.  
This earnings guidance does not reflect the impact of any of the lease accounting corrections described below.
Second Quarter 2011 Earnings
Kohl's will host a second quarter earnings conference call at 8:30 am ET on August 11, 2011. The call can be accessed by dialing (706) 902-0486 and referencing Conference ID 8356191, or via Kohl's web site at .  Replays of the call and web cast will be available for thirty days.   
http://www.kohlscorporation.com/InvestorRelations/event-calendar.htm
Lease Accounting Update
On August 4, 2011, Kohl's reported that it had identified certain errors related to its accounting for leases.  On August 9, 2011, the audit committee of Kohl's board of directors, in consultation with management, concluded that because of these errors, investors should no longer rely upon the financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011 or its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended April 30, 2011.   In addition, any related reports of the Company's independent registered public accounting firm (Ernst & Young LLP) should not be relied upon.
To correct the accounting errors, Kohl's will record additional property and related financing obligations on its Balance Sheet.  In its Statements of Income, Kohl's will now recognize lease payments as depreciation and interest expense, rather than rent expense (which were previously recorded in Selling, General and Administrative Expense).  The corrections will have no impact on the net increase or decrease in cash and cash equivalents reported in Kohl's Statements of Cash Flows.  
Kohl's management, in conjunction with Ernst & Young LLP, is still in the process of completing a review of its historic lease accounting and is currently unable to provide reasonable estimates of the impact by reporting period and/or financial statement line item.  
Refer to Kohl's Periodic Report on Form 8-K which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 11, 2011 for additional information regarding the lease accounting corrections.
The actual results and earnings guidance included above do not include any impact from these lease accounting corrections.  
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including guidance on Kohl's targeted earnings, statements regarding Kohl's intent to restate its prior financial reports, and the nature and timing of the lease accounting corrections described herein.  Kohl's intends forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "anticipates," "plans," or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.  Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the risk that additional information may arise during the course of  Kohl's lease accounting review that  would require Kohl's to make additional adjustments to its financial statements, the time and effort required to complete the restatement of the financial reports as well as other risks described more fully in Item 1A in the Kohl's Annual Report on Form 10-K,
which is expressly incorporated herein by reference, and other factors as may periodically be described in Kohl's filings with the SEC.
About Kohl's
Based in Menomonee Falls, Wis., Kohl's (NYSE: KSS) is a family-focused, value-oriented specialty department store offering moderately priced, exclusive and national brand apparel, shoes, accessories, beauty and home products in an exciting shopping environment. Kohl's operates 1,097 stores in 49 states with a commitment to environmental leadership. In support of the communities it serves, Kohl's has raised more than $180 million for children's initiatives nationwide through its Kohl's Cares cause merchandise program, which operates under Kohl's Cares, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. For a list of store locations and information, or for the added convenience of shopping online, visit .  
www.Kohls.com
Investor Relations:  Wes McDonald, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, (262) 703-1893
Media:  Vicki Shamion, Senior Vice President  Public Relations, (262) 703-1464


