FILE:KSS/KSS-8K-20120514172654.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.07.
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
Kohl's Corporation (the "Company") held its 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "2012 Annual Meeting") on May 10, 2012. The following  matters were voted upon at the 2012 Annual Meeting:
(1)
Proposal to elect the 12 individuals nominated by the Board of Directors to serve as directors for a one year term and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.  
The results of the voting on this proposal were as follows:
(2)
Proposal to ratify the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending February 2, 2013.  
The results of the voting on this proposal are as follows:
(3)
Non-Binding Advisory Vote on the Compensation of the Company's Named Executive Officers.  
The results of the voting on this proposal are as follows:
(4)  
Shareholder proposal encouraging the Company's board of directors to develop a policy prohibiting the sale of products that use animal fur.
The results of the voting on this proposal are as follows:
(5)  
Shareholder proposal on Succession Planning and Reporting.  
The results of the voting on this proposal are as follows:
(6)  
Shareholder proposal requesting the Company's executive pay committee adopt a policy requiring that senior executives retain a significant percentage of stock acquired through equity pay programs until one year following the termination of their employment.
The results of the voting on this proposal are as follows:
Item 8.01
Other Events
On May 10, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing events which took place in connection with the 2012 Annual Meeting.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  May 14, 2012
KOHL'S CORPORATION
By
:/s/ Richard D. Schepp                            
Richard D. Schepp
Senior Executive Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary

MENOMONEE FALLS, Wis.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May. 10, 2012-- Kohl's Corporation (NYSE:KSS) today held its annual shareholders meeting. Following are the preliminary results for the six initiatives voted upon by shareholders:
1.  Kohl's shareholders re-elected Peter Boneparth, Steven A. Burd, John F. Herma, Dale E. Jones, William S. Kellogg, Kevin Mansell, John E. Schlifske, Frank V. Sica, Peter M. Sommerhauser, Stephanie A. Streeter, Nina G. Vaca and Stephen E. Watson to the board of directors for one-year terms, with each director receiving more than 91 percent of the votes cast.
2.  A proposal to ratify the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Kohl's independent registered public accounting firm received more than 98 percent of the votes cast.
3.  A non-binding advisory vote to approve the compensation of Kohl's executive officers received more than 95 percent of the votes cast.
4.  A shareholder proposal encouraging Kohl's board of directors to develop a policy prohibiting the sale of products that use animal fur received approximately 3 percent of the votes cast.
5.  A shareholder proposal requesting Kohl's board of directors to amend Kohl's Corporate Governance Guidelines to adopt and disclose a detailed succession planning policy received approximately 18 percent of the votes cast.
6.  A shareholder proposal requesting Kohl's executive pay committee to adopt a policy requiring that senior executives retain a significant percentage of stock acquired through equity pay programs until one year following the termination of their employment received approximately 21 percent of the votes cast.
Kohl's 10-K, proxy and information about the company's 2011 financial performance are available at .
www.kohlscorporation.com
About Kohl's
Based in Menomonee Falls, Wis., Kohl's (NYSE: KSS) is a family-focused, value-oriented specialty department store offering moderately priced, exclusive and national brand apparel, shoes, accessories, beauty and home products in an exciting shopping environment. With a commitment to environmental leadership, Kohl's operates 1,134 stores in 49 states. In support of the communities it serves, Kohl's has raised more than $208 million for children's
initiatives nationwide through its Kohl's Cares cause merchandise program, which operates under Kohl's Cares, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Kohl's Department Stores, Inc. For a list of store locations and information, or for the added convenience of shopping online, visit , or join the discussion on Facebook  or Twitter .
www.Kohls.com
http://www.facebook.com/kohls
http://twitter.com/Kohls
Source: Kohl's Corporation
Kohl's Investor Relations: Wes McDonald, 262-703-1893 or Media Relations: Vicki Shamion, 262-703-1464


