Item 7 Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, as follows: I. Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential pages 37 38 II. Investment Portfolio page 73 III. Loan Portfolio pages 37 38; 41 42; 45 46; 59 60; 68 IV. Summary of Loan Loss Experience pages 45 46; 74 V. Deposits pages 50 51; 75 78 VI. Return on Equity and Assets page 29 VII. Other Borrowings pages 49 51; 75 78 Item 2. Properties. We lease our new, 570,000 square foot, headquarters building at 1680 Capital One Drive, McLean, Virginia. The building houses our primary executive offices and Northern Virginia staff, and is leased through December 2010, with the right to purchase at a fixed cost at the end of the lease term. Additionally, we own approximately 316 acres of land in Goochland County, Virginia for the construction of an office campus to consolidate certain operations in the Richmond area. In 2002 two office buildings and a support facility consisting of approximately 365,000 square feet, and in 2003 five buildings consisting of approximately 750,000 square feet were completed and occupied respectively. Other owned facilities include 460,000 square feet in office buildings and a 120,000 square foot facility in Tampa, Florida; 240,000 square feet in office and production buildings in Seattle, Washington; 460,000 square feet in office, data and production buildings in Richmond, Virginia; a 484,000 square foot facility in Nottingham, Great Britain; and 470,000 square feet in administrative offices and credit card facilities in Richmond, Virginia, from which we conduct credit, collections, customer service and other operations. We currently lease 2.5 million square feet of office space from which credit, collections, customer service and other operations are conducted, in Virginia, Texas, Idaho, California, Massachusetts, the United Kingdom, Canada, and insignificant space for business development in other locations. We are currently migrating out of approximately 1 million square feet of leased office space and into our new campuses in McLean, Virginia and Goochland County, Virginia. Generally, we use our properties to support all three of our business segments, although our properties located outside of the U.S. are used principally to support our Global Financial Services segment, and our properties in Texas and California are used principally to support our Auto Finance segment. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. The information required by Item 3 is included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note P on pages 89 90. 27 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. During the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2003, no matters were submitted for a vote of our stockholders. PART II Item 5. Market for Companys Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters. The information required by Item 5 is included under the following: Item 1 Business Overview Page 3 Item 1 Business Supervision and Regulation Dividends and Transfers of Funds Page 13 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Market Risk Management Page 54 55 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Adequacy Page 55 56 Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Dividend Policy Page 56 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction Capital One Financial Corporation (the Corporation) is a holding company whose subsidiaries market a variety of financial products and services to consumers using its Information Based Strategy (IBS). The Corporations principal subsidiaries are Capital One Bank (the Bank), which offers credit card products, Capital One, F.S.B. (the Savings Bank), which offers consumer lending (including credit cards) and deposit products, and Capital One Auto Finance, Inc. (COAF), which offers automobile and other motor vehicle financing products. The Corporation and its subsidiaries are hereafter collectively referred to as the Company. As of December 31, 2003, the Company had 47.0 million accounts and $71.2 billion in managed consumer loans outstanding and was one of the largest providers of MasterCard and Visa credit cards in the world. The Companys profitability is affected by the net interest income and non interest income generated on earning assets, consumer usage patterns, credit quality, levels of marketing expense and operating efficiency. The Companys revenues consist primarily of interest income on consumer loans (including past due fees) and securities and non interest income consisting of servicing income on securitized loans, fees (such as annual membership, cash advance, cross sell, interchange, overlimit and other fee income, collectively fees) and gains on the securitizations of loans. Loan securitization transactions qualifying as sales under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) remove the loan receivables from the consolidated balance sheet. However, the Company continues to own and service the related accounts. The Company generates earnings from its managed loan portfolio that includes both on balance sheet and off balance sheet loans. Interest income, fees, and recoveries in excess of the interest paid to investors and charge offs generated from off balance sheet loans are recognized as servicing and securitizations income. The Companys primary expenses are the costs of funding assets, provision for loan losses, operating expenses (including salaries and associate benefits), marketing expenses and income taxes. Marketing expenses (e.g., advertising, printing, credit bureau costs and postage) to implement the Companys new product strategies are incurred and expensed prior to the acquisition of new accounts while the resulting revenues are recognized over the life of the acquired accounts. Revenues recognized are a function of the response rate of the initial marketing program, usage and attrition patterns, credit quality of accounts, product pricing and effectiveness of account management programs. Significant Accounting Policies The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contain a summary of the Companys significant accounting policies, including a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. Several of these policies are considered to be important to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition, since they require management to make difficult, complex or subjective judgements, some of which may relate to matters that are inherently uncertain. These policies include determination of the level of allowance for loan losses, accounting for securitization transactions, and finance charge and fee revenue recognition. Additional information about accounting policies can be found in 
 
