Item 7 Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, as follows: I. Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential pages 67 68 II. Investment Portfolio page 96 III. Loan Portfolio pages 63 75; 85; 99 IV. Summary of Loan Loss Experience pages 72 75; 98 V. Deposits pages 56; 101; 104 VI. Return on Equity and Assets page 30 VII. Other Borrowings pages 54 57; 101 104 Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10 K contains forward looking statements. We also may make written or oral forward looking statements in our periodic reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms 10 Q and 8 K, in our annual report to shareholders, in our proxy statements, in our offering circulars and prospectuses, 18 Table of Contents in press releases and other written materials and in statements made by our officers, directors or employees to third parties. Statements that are not about historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward looking statements. Forward looking statements include information relating to our future earnings per share, growth in managed loans outstanding, product mix, segment growth, managed revenue margin, funding costs, operations costs, employment growth, marketing expense, delinquencies and charge offs. Forward looking statements also include statements using words such as expect, anticipate, hope, intend, plan, believe, estimate or similar expressions. We have based these forward looking statements on our current plans, estimates and projections, and you should not unduly rely on them. Forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the risks discussed below. Our future performance and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Many of the factors that will determine these results and values are beyond our ability to control or predict. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the factors discussed below in evaluating these forward looking statements. This section highlights specific risks that could affect our business and us. Although we have tried to discuss key factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, among the other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the following: We Face Intense Competition in All of Our Markets We operate in a highly competitive environment, and we expect competitive conditions to continue to intensify as merger activity in the financial services industry continues to produce larger, better capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are capable of offering a wider array of financial products and services at better prices. In such a competitive environment, we may lose entire accounts, or may lose account balances, to competing financial institutions, or find it more costly to maintain our existing customer base. Customer attrition from any or all of our lending products, together with any lowering of interest rates or fees that we might implement to retain customers, could reduce our revenues and therefore our earnings. Similarly, customer attrition from our deposit products, in addition to an increase in rates and or services that we may offer to retain those deposits, may increase our expenses and therefore reduce our earnings. We expect that competition will continue to grow more intensely with respect to most of our products. Some of our competitors may be substantially larger than we are, which may give those competitors advantages, including a more diversified product and customer base, the ability to reach out to more customers and potential customers, operational efficiencies, more versatile technology platforms, broad based local distribution capabilities, lower cost funding, and larger existing branch networks. These competitors may also consolidate with other financial institutions in ways that enhance these advantages and intensify our competitive environment. With respect to our credit card business, we compete primarily with respect to price (primarily interest rates and fees), credit limit and other product features. Larger, better capitalized companies may be able to offer credit cards at better rates and with more attractive features than we can offer. Our other consumer lending businesses, including auto lending, small business lending, home loan lending, installment lending, our commercial lending businesses, and our businesses in international markets also compete on a similar variety of factors, including price, loan terms, product features and customer service. Our banking business competes with national and state banks for deposits, loans, and trust accounts, and also competes with other financial services companies in offering various types of financial services. In addition, technological advances and the growth of e commerce have made it possible for non depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products and services. Deposit customers are also sensitive to price and service level competition. 19 Table of Contents In addition, we compete on the basis of transaction execution, innovation and technology. Our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes. In order to compete in our industry, we must continue to invest in technologies across all of our businesses, including transaction processing, data management, customer interactions and communications and risk management and compliance systems. We expect that new technologies will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies could be superior to or render our technologies obsolete. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue to develop and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are not able to invest successfully in and compete at the leading edge of technological advances across all of our businesses, our revenues and profitability could suffer. We May Experience Increased Delinquencies and Credit Losses Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans. Rising losses or leading indicators of rising losses (higher delinquencies, non performing loans, or bankruptcy rates; lower collateral values) may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses and may degrade our profitability if we are unable to raise revenue or reduce costs to compensate for higher losses. The favorable credit environment we have experienced may not continue. In particular, we face the following risks in this area: Missed Payments. We face the risk that customers will miss payments. Loan charge offs (including from bankruptcies) are generally preceded by missed payments or other indications of worsening financial condition. Our reported delinquency levels measure these trends. Customers may be more likely to miss payments in the event of an economic downturn. In addition, we face the risk that consumer and commercial customer behavior may change (i.e. an increased willingness to fail to repay debt), causing a long term rise in delinquencies and charge offs. Our bankruptcy experience is generally correlated with national bankruptcy filing trends. Collateral. We face the risk that collateral, when we have it, will be insufficient to compensate us for loan losses. When customers default on their loans and we have collateral, we attempt to seize it. However, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to compensate us for the amount of the unpaid loan and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customers. Particularly with respect to our commercial lending and mortgage activities, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans and investments. Thus, the recovery of such property could be insufficient to compensate us for the value of these loans. Estimates of future losses. We face the risk that we may underestimate our future losses and fail to hold a loan loss allowance sufficient to account for these losses. Incorrect assumptions could lead to material underestimates of future losses and inadequate allowance for loan losses. In addition, our estimate of future losses impacts the amount of reserves we build to account for those losses. The build or release of reserves impacts our current financial results. Underwriting. We face the risk that our ability to assess the credit worthiness of our customers may diminish. If the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our consumer and commercial customers become less predictive of future charge offs (due, for example, to changes in the competitive environment or in the economy), our credit losses and returns may deteriorate. Business mix. We face the risk that our business mix will change in ways that could adversely affect credit losses. We participate in a mix of businesses with a broad range of credit loss characteristics. Consequently, changes in segment mix may change our charge off rate. In addition, significant changes in our organic growth rate may change our charge off rate since young accounts tend to have lower charge offs than older accounts (i.e. slower organic growth may drive a higher charge off rate). Charge off recognition. We face the risk that the rules governing charge off recognition could change. We record charge offs according to accounting practices consistent with accounting and regulatory guidelines and rules. These guidelines and rules, including among other things, the FFIEC Account Management Guidance, could change and cause our charge offs to increase for reasons unrelated to the underlying performance of our portfolio. 20 Table of Contents Mortgage repurchases. We face the risk that we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we sell to investors in the event that there was improper underwriting or fraud. Typically, loans are put back to originators if they experience delinquencies. Consequently, we may be exposed to credit risk associated with sold loans. We hold a reserve against this risk, but we face the risk that the reserve will not be adequate. Industry practices. We face the risk that our charge off and delinquency rates may be impacted by industry developments. We Face Risk of Interest Rate Fluctuations Like other financial institutions, we borrow money from other institutions and depositors, which we use to make loans to customers and invest in debt securities and other earning assets. We earn interest on these loans and assets and pay interest on the money we borrow from institutions and depositors. Changes in interest rates, including changes in the relationship between short term rates and long term rates, may have negative impacts on our net interest income and therefore our earnings. If the rate of interest we pay on our borrowings and deposits increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our assets, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, would fall. Our earnings could also be negatively impacted if the interest rates we charge on our earning assets fall more quickly than the rates we pay on our borrowings and deposits. Changes in interest rates and competitor responses to those changes may affect the rate of customer pre payments for mortgages and auto and other term loans and may affect the balances customers carry on their credit cards. These changes can reduce the overall yield on our earning asset portfolio. Changes in interest rates and competitor responses to these changes may also impact customer decisions to maintain balances in the deposit accounts they have with us. These changes may require us to replace withdrawn balances with higher cost alternative sources of funding. We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction and the magnitude of interest rate changes. We take risk mitigation actions based on those assessments. We face the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than those we assumed. See pages 60 62 in Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Interest Rate Risk Management contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2006. We May Fail To Realize All of the Anticipated Benefits of our Mergers with Hibernia Corporation and North Fork Bancorporation The success of our mergers with Hibernia and North Fork will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of Capital One, Hibernia and North Fork. However, to realize these anticipated benefits, we must successfully combine these businesses. While we have successfully completed the integration of Hibernia, we are in the early stages of the North Fork integration. If we are not able to achieve the objectives of the North Fork integration, the anticipated benefits of the mergers, such as cost savings and other synergies, may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. In addition, it is possible that the ongoing integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each companys ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the mergers. Integration efforts also will divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on Capital One during such transition period. Our recent acquisitions also involve our entry into new businesses and new geographic or other markets which present risks resulting from our relative inexperience in these new areas and these new businesses. Historically, 21 Table of Contents our business has not focused on retail and commercial banking. These new businesses change the overall character of our consolidated portfolio of businesses and react differently to economic and other external factors. While we have senior managers with experience in the banking industry, we may not be able to retain our experienced banking personnel to develop such expertise internally or to recruit it externally. If we are unable to retain or develop such personnel, our business will suffer. In addition, as with many integration efforts, the integrations of Hibernia and North Fork face the challenges of combining the cultural and historical identities of institutions that previously operated independently. Particularly with respect to the acquisition of North Fork, we face the risk that we will not be able to successfully integrate their commercial and local retail lending cultures with our national scale lending culture. Furthermore, we may be unable to appreciate the cultural factors that drive these new businesses. If we are unable to successfully adapt our unique cultural perspectives, our integration efforts and our overall business could suffer. Finally, North Fork entered into an informal memorandum of understanding with the bank regulatory authorities pursuant to which it is required to take certain actions regarding its anti money laundering compliance program. We are responsible for fulfilling the obligations of this informal memorandum of understanding, which may be more costly or take more time than we initially anticipated. We Face Risk From Economic Downturns Delinquencies and credit losses in the consumer finance industry generally increase during economic downturns or recessions. Likewise, consumer demand may decline during an economic downturn or recession. In the United States, we face the risk that the effects of higher interest rates, higher energy costs and pressure on housing prices may place added strain on consumers ability to make purchases and repay their loans. Accordingly, an economic downturn in the United States (either local or national), can hurt our financial performance as accountholders default on their loans or, in the case of credit card accounts, carry lower balances and reduce credit card purchase activity. Furthermore, because our business model is to lend across the credit spectrum, we make loans to lower credit quality customers. These customers generally have higher rates of charge offs and delinquencies than do higher credit quality customers. Finally, the credit environment in certain geographic areas may continue to worsen, which also could hurt our financial performance. Although we are geographically diversified, we have concentrations of our commercial loans in the New York metropolitan area and Louisiana. The regional economic conditions in these areas affect the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in the general economic conditions in these regional economies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Face Risk Related to the Strength of our Operational, Technological and Organizational Infrastructure Our ability to grow and compete is dependent on our ability to build or acquire the necessary operational and technological infrastructure and to manage the cost of that infrastructure while we expand and as we integrate acquired businesses. Similar to other large corporations, in our case, operational risk can manifest itself in many ways, such as errors related to failed or inadequate processes, faulty or disabled computer systems, fraud by employees or persons outside of Capital One and exposure to external events. We are dependent on our operational infrastructure to help manage these risks. From time to time, we may need to change or upgrade our technology infrastructure. We may experience disruption, and we may face additional exposure to these risks during the course of making such changes. In addition, as we acquire other institutions, we face additional challenges when integrating different operational platforms. Such integration efforts may be more disruptive to the business and or more costly than we anticipate. 22 Table of Contents In some cases, we outsource the maintenance and development of our operational and technological functionality to third parties. These third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. As we increase the amount of our infrastructure that we outsource to third parties, we increase our exposure to this risk. In addition, we are heavily dependent on the strength and capability of our technology systems which we use both to interface with our customers and to manage our internal financial and other systems. Our ability to develop and deliver new products that meet the needs of our existing customers and attract new ones depends on the functionality of our technology systems. Our ability to develop and implement effective marketing campaigns also depends on our technology. Additionally, our ability to run our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations is dependent on these infrastructures. Finally, in addition to maintaining a solid infrastructure platform, we are also dependent on recruiting management and operations personnel with the experience to run an increasingly large and complex business. Although we take steps to retain our existing management talent and recruit new talent as needed, we face a competitive market for such talent and there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to maintain and build a management team capable of running our increasingly large and complex business. Also, we may acquire key personnel in connection with the acquisition of businesses. While we strive to retain such personnel, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. The Credit Card Industry Faces Increased Litigation Risks Relating to Industry Structure We face risks from the outcomes of certain credit card industry litigation. Over the past several years, MasterCard International and Visa U.S.A., Inc., as well as several of their member banks have been involved in several different lawsuits challenging various practices of MasterCard and Visa and their member banks. In November 2004, American Express filed an antitrust lawsuit against MasterCard and Visa and several member banks, alleging, among other things, that the defendants implemented practices that prevented member banks from issuing American Express cards. The Corporation, the Bank and the Savings Bank are named defendants in this lawsuit. Separately, a number of entities, each purporting to represent a class of retail merchants, also have filed antitrust lawsuits against MasterCard, Visa and several member banks, including the Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries. Given the complexity of the issues raised by these lawsuits and the uncertainty regarding: (i) the outcome of these suits; (ii) the likelihood and amount of any possible judgments; (iii) the likelihood, amount and validity of any claim against MasterCard and Visas member banks, including us; (iv) changes in industry structure that may result from the suits; and (v) the effects of these suits, in turn, on competition in the industry, member banks, as well as interchange and association fees, we cannot determine at this time the long term effects that these suits may have on us. For a full description of the litigation risks that we face in connection with the structure of our industry, please refer to Industry Litigation on page 123 in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations I. Introduction Capital One Financial Corporation (the Corporation) is a diversified financial services company whose banking and non banking subsidiaries market a variety of financial products and services. The Corporations principal subsidiaries are: Capital One Bank (the Bank) which currently offers credit card products and deposit products and also can engage in a wide variety of lending and other financial activities Capital One, F.S.B. (the Savings Bank) which offers consumer and commercial lending and consumer deposit products Capital One, National Association (CONA) which offers a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients Capital One Auto Finance, Inc. (COAF) which offers automobile and other motor vehicle financing products North Fork Bank (North Fork Bank) which offers a full range of banking products and financial services, to both consumer and commercial customers Another subsidiary of the Corporation, Superior Savings of New England, N.A. (Superior) focuses on telephonic and media based generation of deposits. In addition, a subsidiary of North Fork Bank, GreenPoint Mortgage Funding, Inc. (GreenPoint) offers residential and commercial mortgages. The Corporation and its subsidiaries are hereafter collectively referred to as the Company. The Company is delivering on its strategy of combining the power of national scale lending and local scale banking. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had $85.8 billion in deposits and $146.2 billion in managed loans outstanding. The Companys earnings are primarily driven by lending to consumers and commercial customers and by deposit taking activities which generate net interest income, and by activities that generate non interest income, including the sale and servicing of loans and providing fee based services to customers. Customer usage and payment patterns, credit quality, levels of marketing expense and operating efficiency all affect the Companys profitability. The Companys primary expenses are the costs of funding assets, provision for loan losses, operating expenses (including associate salaries and benefits, infrastructure maintenance and enhancements, and branch operations and expansion costs), marketing expenses, and income taxes. II. Critical Accounting Estimates The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contain a summary of the Companys significant accounting policies, including a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. Several of these policies are considered to be more critical to the portrayal of the Companys financial condition, since they require management to make difficult, complex or subjective judgments, some of which may relate to matters that are inherently uncertain. Areas with significant judgment and or estimates or that are materially dependent on management judgment include: determination of the level of allowance for loan and lease losses, valuation of goodwill and other intangibles, finance charge and fee revenue recognition, valuation of mortgage servicing rights, valuation of representation and warranty reserves, valuation of retained interests from securitization transactions, recognition of customer reward liability, treatment of derivative instruments and hedging activities, and accounting for income taxes. Additional information about accounting policies can be found in 
 
