Item 7 Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10 K contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We also may make written or oral forward looking statements in our periodic reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms 10 Q and 8 K, in our annual report to shareholders, in our proxy statements, in our offering circulars and prospectuses, in press releases and other written materials and in statements made by our officers, directors or employees to third parties. Statements that are not about historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward looking statements. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, information relating to our future earnings per share, growth in managed loans outstanding, product mix, segment growth, tangible common equity, managed revenue margin, funding costs, operations costs, employment growth, marketing expense, delinquencies and charge offs. Forward looking statements also include statements using words such as expect, anticipate, hope, intend, plan, believe, estimate or similar expressions. Forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the risks discussed below. Our future performance and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in forward looking statements. Many of the factors that will determine these results and values are beyond our ability to control or predict. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. This section highlights specific risks that could affect our business. Although we have tried to discuss all material risks, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, among the other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward looking statements are the following: The Current Business Environment, Including the Current Economic Downturn, May Adversely Affect Our Industry, Business, Results Of Operations And Capital Levels The current global recession has resulted in a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, reduced asset values (including residential and commercial properties), reduced business profits, increased rates of business and consumer delinquency, and increased rates of consumer bankruptcy, some of which have had a negative impact on our results of operation. Continued economic weakness may hurt our financial performance as customers default on their loans or maintain lower deposit levels, or in the case of credit card accounts, carry lower balances and reduce credit card purchase activity. A prolonged global recession could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Furthermore, dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write downs, initially of mortgage backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to turn to the government for extraordinary financial assistance, to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of credit counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or eliminated their funding to even the most credit worthy borrowers or to other financial institutions. The resulting lack of available credit and lack of confidence in the financial markets could materially and adversely affect our access to capital and financial condition. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause declines in credit card usage and adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. The processes we use to estimate inherent losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation, which could have a negative impact on our business. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the criteria and or models we use to underwrite and manage our customers become less predictive of future losses, which could cause our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in securitization or unsecured funding transactions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, which could limit our access to funding. As a result of these current market conditions, we have increased our reliance on deposit funding. This shift results in higher levels of owned loan receivables and related increases in our allowance for loan and lease losses. Increased charge offs, rising LIBOR and other events may cause our securitization transactions to amortize earlier than scheduled or increase certain capital requirements, which could accelerate our need for additional funding or have a significant effect on the ability of certain of our business entities to meet capital adequacy requirements. An inability to accept or maintain deposits or to obtain other sources of funding could materially effect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business. Many other financial institutions are increasing their reliance on deposit funding, including newly formed bank holding companies and, as such, we expect increased competition in the deposit markets. We cannot predict how this increased competition will affect our costs. If we are required to offer higher interest rates to attract or maintain deposits, our funding costs will be adversely impacted. In addition, our ability to maintain existing or obtain additional deposits may be impacted by factors beyond our control, including perceptions about our financial strength, which could lead to consumers choosing not to make deposits with us. Regulators, rating agencies or investors could change their standards regarding appropriate capital levels for banks in general or our company in particular. If we are unable to meet any such new standards, it could have negative impacts on our ability to lend, to grow deposits, and on our business results. Increased prepayments, refinancings or other factors could lead to a reduction in the value of our mortgage servicing rights, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. Compliance With New And Existing Laws And Regulations May Increase Our Costs, Limit Our Ability To Pursue Business Opportunities, And Increase Compliance Challenges There has been increased legislation and regulation with respect to the financial services industry in recent months, and we expect that oversight of our business will continue to expand in scope and complexity. A wide array of banking, consumer lending, and deposit laws apply to almost every aspect of our business. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in financial, structural and operational penalties, including receivership. In addition, establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these laws and regulations may increase our costs and or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. Our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program (the CPP) subjects us to increased oversight by the Treasury Department, regulators and Congress under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA). Congress may adopt further legislation to refine EESA in addition to other efforts to change lending practices that legislators believe led to the current economic situation. Such legislation could increase governmental oversight of the Company, restrict the Companys lending or governance practices, or both, all of which could negatively impact our business and revenues. 18 Table of Contents In addition, the Federal Reserve Board recently passed amendments to Regulation AA (Unfair or Deceptive Acts or Practices) and Regulation Z (Truth in Lending), effective July 1, 2010, which limit or prohibit certain credit card practices and require increased disclosures for consumers. Although the Company has not engaged in many of the practices prohibited by the amendments, the rules could have a material adverse effect on future revenues in our U.S. credit card business and could make the card business generally less resilient in future economic downturns. In particular, the rules will prohibit an increase in the interest rates applied to existing credit card balances except in limited circumstances. Likewise, several bills pending before Congress could impact credit card pricing and other terms. In addition, legislation has been introduced that could enable merchants to negotiate interchange fees, which is the discount on the payment due from the card issuing bank to the merchant bank through the interchange network. The future of these bills is uncertain, but each, or additional legislation, could be introduced or reintroduced in 2009. We face similar risks with respect to our international businesses, where changing laws and regulations may have an adverse impact on our results. In April 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) voted to eliminate Qualifying Special Purpose Entities (QSPEs) from the guidance in SFAS 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities. This change could have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements because the Company could lose sales treatment for assets previously sold to a QSPE, as well as for future sales. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately $45.9 billion of credit card receivables held by QSPEs. If the Company is required to hold more of these assets on its balance sheet, the Company could be required to comply with increased regulatory capital requirements and such capital may not be available on terms favorable to the Company, if at all. If the Company were to fail to comply with any additional capital requirements, it could have a negative impact on our business. Likewise, if the Company is required to hold additional assets on its balance sheet, the Company may also have to increase its allowance for loan and lease losses to account for potential losses with respect to such assets. If the Company were to increase its allowance for loan and lease losses, it could have a negative impact on the Companys financial results. Finally, in January 2009, broad bankruptcy legislation was introduced in Congress that could be seen as creating incentives for consumers to choose Chapter 13 bankruptcy as a primary remedy for mortgage related problems. Such legislation, if enacted, could result in an increase in bankruptcy filings, which could lead to increased credit losses in certain of our other lending businesses, such as credit cards and auto finance, and could have an overall negative impact on our results of operation. Laws and regulations, and any interpretations and applications with respect thereto, generally are intended to benefit consumers, borrowers and depositors, not shareholders. The legislative and regulatory environment is beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and may negatively influence our earnings and growth. In addition, some of these new laws and regulations may increase our costs. Our success depends on our ability to maintain compliance with both existing and new laws and regulations. For a description of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, please refer to Supervision and Regulation in Item 1. The Capital Markets And Credit Environment Have Experienced Unprecedented Levels Of Volatility, Which Could Have A Negative Impact On Our Business The capital markets have experienced and are continuing to experience extended volatility and disruption, which has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock price and credit capacity for issuers without regard to those issuers underlying financial strength. Such market conditions may limit the Companys ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory capital requirements and access the capital necessary to maintain and grow our business. As such, the Company may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could limit financial flexibility and ultimately jeopardize its overall liquidity and capital position. In the event the Company needs to preserve its capital levels or raise additional capital, the current level of dividends paid to shareholders may decrease and the price at which additional capital may be raised could be dilutive to existing shareholders. Similarly, as a result of the extreme dislocation in the marketplace, the market value of assets in the Companys investment portfolio has declined, and such decline may be lasting or could become even more severe. Such decline has increased and could continue to increase the Companys unrealized losses, which could have a negative impact on the Companys capital position. In response to this market dislocation, the federal government has taken unprecedented government action, including the various programs implemented by the U.S. Treasury to inject capital into the financial system. However, there is no guarantee that the Treasurys programs will necessarily benefit the financial markets in general or the Company in particular. In addition, the Company could also be adversely impacted if certain of its competitors are beneficiaries of certain of the governments programs and the Company does not receive comparable assistance. The government may not continue to intervene in the financial markets, and any governmental intervention may not have a positive impact on the Companys business, financial condition or results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We May Experience Increased Delinquencies And Credit Losses Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans. Rising losses or leading indicators of rising losses (such as higher delinquencies, non performing loans, or bankruptcy rates; lower collateral values; rising unemployment rates) may require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, which may degrade our profitability if we are unable to raise revenue or reduce costs to compensate for higher losses. In particular, we face the following risks in this area: Missed Payments. Our customers may miss payments. Loan charge offs (including from bankruptcies) are generally preceded by missed payments or other indications of worsening financial condition. Our reported delinquency levels measure these trends. Customers are more likely to miss payments during an economic downturn. In addition, we face the risk that consumer and commercial customer behavior may change (i.e. an increased unwillingness or inability to repay debt), causing a long term rise in delinquencies and charge offs. Estimates of inherent losses. The credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. We allow for and reserve against credit risks based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolios. This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. We may underestimate our inherent losses and fail to hold a loan loss allowance sufficient to account for these losses. Incorrect assumptions could lead to material underestimates of inherent losses and inadequate allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, our estimate of inherent losses impacts the amount of allowances we build to account for those losses. The increase or release of allowances impacts our current financial results. Underwriting. Our ability to assess the credit worthiness of our customers may diminish. If the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our consumer and commercial customers become less predictive of future charge offs (due, for example, to rapid changes in the economy, including the unemployment rate), our credit losses and returns may deteriorate. Business mix. Our business mix could change in ways that could adversely affect credit losses. We participate in a mix of businesses with a broad range of credit loss characteristics. Consequently, changes in our business mix may change our charge off rate. Charge off recognition. The rules governing charge off recognition could change. We record charge offs according to accounting and regulatory guidelines and rules. These guidelines and rules, including the FFIEC Account Management Guidance, could require changes in our account management or loss allowance practices and cause our charge offs to increase for reasons unrelated to the underlying performance of our portfolio. Such changes could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operation. Mortgage repurchases. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that we sell to investors in the event that there was improper underwriting or fraud, or in the event that the loans become delinquent shortly after they are originated. Typically, loans are put back to originators if they experience delinquencies. Consequently, we may be exposed to credit risk associated with sold loans. We hold a reserve against this risk, but the reserve may not be adequate. Industry practices. Our charge off and delinquency rates may be negatively impacted by industry developments, including new regulations applicable to our industry. Collateral. Collateral, when we have it, could be insufficient to compensate us for loan losses. When customers default on their loans and we have collateral, we attempt to seize it. However, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to compensate us for the amount of the unpaid loan and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customers. Particularly with respect to our commercial lending and mortgage activities, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans and investments. Thus, the recovery of such property could be insufficient to compensate us for the value of these loans. New York Concentration. Although our lending is geographically diversified, in general, our commercial loan portfolio is concentrated in the New York metropolitan area. The regional economic conditions in the New York area affect the demand for our commercial products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay their commercial loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A prolonged decline in the general economic conditions in the New York region could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our commercial loan portfolio and our results of operations. The Soundness of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect Us Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the stability and actions of other financial services institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We 20 Table of Contents have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients, resulting in a significant credit concentration with respect to the financial services industry overall. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Likewise, adverse developments affecting the overall strength and soundness of our competitors or the financial services industry as a whole could have a negative impact on perceptions about the strength and soundness of our business even if we are not subject to the same adverse developments. In addition, adverse developments with respect to third parties with whom we have important relationships also could negatively impact perceptions about us. These negative perceptions about us could cause our business to suffer and exacerbate the other risks that we face. Reputational Risk And Social Factors May Impact Our Results Our ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly dependent upon the perceptions of consumer and commercial borrowers and deposit holders and other external perceptions of our business practices and or our financial health. Adverse perceptions regarding our reputation in the consumer, commercial and funding markets could lead to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. Particularly, negative perceptions regarding our reputation could lead to decreases in the levels of deposits that consumer and commercial customers and potential customers choose to maintain with us. In addition, a variety of social factors may cause changes in borrowing activity, including credit card use, payment patterns and the rate of defaults by accountholders and borrowers domestically and internationally. These social factors include changes in consumer confidence levels, the publics perception regarding consumer debt, including credit card use, and changing attitudes about the stigma of personal bankruptcy. If consumers develop negative attitudes about incurring debt or if consumption trends continue to decline, our business and financial results will suffer. Goodwill Impairment Could Negatively Impact Our Net Income And Stockholders Equity Goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. There are numerous risks that may cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its carrying amount, which could lead to the measurement and recognition of goodwill impairment. These risks include, but are not limited to, adverse changes in legal factors or the business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, the loss of key personnel, a more likely than not expectation that all or a significant portion of a reporting unit may be disposed of, failure to realize anticipated synergies from acquisitions, a sustained decline in the Companys market capitalization, significant negative variances between actual and expected financial results, and lowered expectations of future financial results. The Company recorded $810.9 million of goodwill impairment in 2008, and as of December 31, 2008, had approximately $12.0 billion of goodwill remaining on its balance sheet. Declines in the Companys market capitalization increase the risk of further goodwill impairment in 2009. We Face Intense Competition in All of Our Markets We operate in a highly competitive environment, and we expect competitive conditions to continue to intensify. In such a competitive environment, we may lose entire accounts, or may lose account balances, to competing financial institutions, or find it more costly to maintain our existing customer base. Customer attrition from any or all of our lending products, together with any lowering of interest rates or fees that we might implement to retain customers, could reduce our revenues and therefore our earnings. Similarly, customer attrition from our deposit products, in addition to an increase in rates and or services that we may offer to retain those deposits, may increase our expenses and therefore reduce our earnings. We expect that competition will continue to grow more intensely with respect to most of our products. Some of our competitors may be substantially larger than we are, which may give those competitors advantages, including a more diversified product and customer base, the ability to reach out to more customers and potential customers, operational efficiencies, more versatile technology platforms, broad based local distribution capabilities, lower cost funding, and larger existing branch networks. In addition, some of our competitors may not be subject to the same regulatory requirements or legislative scrutiny to which we are subject, which also could place us at a competitive disadvantage. Fluctuations In Market Interest Rates Or The Capital Markets Could Adversely Affect Our Revenue And Expense, The Value Of Assets And Obligations, Our Cost Of Capital Or Our Liquidity Like other financial institutions, our business may be sensitive to market interest rate movement and the performance of the financial markets. Changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us. First, we borrow money from other institutions and depositors, which we use to make loans to customers and invest in debt securities and other earning assets. 21 Table of Contents We earn interest on these loans and assets and pay interest on the money we borrow from institutions and depositors. Fluctuations in interest rates, including changes in the relationship between short term rates and long term rates and in the relationship between our funding basis rate and our lending basis rate, may have negative impacts on our net interest income and therefore our earnings. In addition, interest rate fluctuations and competitor responses to those changes may affect the rate of customer pre payments for auto and other term loans and may affect the balances customers carry on their credit cards. These changes can reduce the overall yield on our earning asset portfolio. Changes in interest rates and competitor responses to these changes may also impact customer decisions to maintain balances in the deposit accounts they have with us. These changes may require us to replace withdrawn balances with higher cost alternative sources of funding. In addition, changes in valuations in the debt and equity markets could have a negative impact on the assets we hold in our investment portfolio. Finally, such market changes could also have a negative impact on the valuation of assets for which we provide servicing. We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction and the magnitude of interest rate changes. We take risk mitigation actions based on those assessments. We face the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than those we assumed. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Interest Rate Risk Management for additional information. We May Fail To Realize All Of The Anticipated Benefits Of Our Mergers And Acquisitions Capital One has engaged in merger and acquisition activity over the past several years. If we are not able to achieve the anticipated benefits of such mergers and acquisitions, including cost savings and other synergies, our business could suffer. In addition, it is possible that the ongoing integration processes could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each companys ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger or acquisition. Integration efforts also may divert management attention and resources. These integration matters may have an adverse effect on the Company during any transition period. Our recent acquisitions also involve our entry into new businesses and new geographic or other markets which present risks resulting from our relative inexperience in these new areas and or these new businesses. These new businesses change the overall character of our consolidated portfolio of businesses and could react differently to economic and other external factors. We face the risk that we will not be successful in these new businesses and or in these new markets. We Face Risk Related To The Strength Of Our Operational, Technological And Organizational Infrastructure Our ability to grow and compete is dependent on our ability to build or acquire the necessary operational and technological infrastructure and to manage the cost of that infrastructure while we expand and as we integrate acquired businesses. Similar to other large corporations, operational risk can manifest itself in many ways, such as errors related to failed or inadequate processes, faulty or disabled computer systems, fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company and exposure to external events. We are dependent on our operational infrastructure to help manage these risks. From time to time, we may need to change or upgrade our technology infrastructure. We may experience disruption, and we may face additional exposure to these risks during the course of making such changes. In addition, as we acquire other institutions, we face additional challenges when integrating different operational platforms. Such integration efforts may be more disruptive to the business and or more costly than we anticipate. In some cases, we outsource the maintenance and development of our operational and technological functionality to third parties. These third parties may experience errors or disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited control. Any increase in the amount of our infrastructure that we outsource to third parties may increase our exposure to this risk. In addition, we are heavily dependent on the strength and capability of our technology systems which we use both to interface with our customers and to manage our internal financial and other systems. Our ability to develop and deliver new products that meet the needs of our existing customers and attract new ones depends on the functionality of our technology systems. Our ability to develop and implement effective marketing campaigns also depends on our technology. Additionally, our ability to run our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations is dependent on these infrastructures. Any disruptions or failures of our infrastructure or technology systems could cause us to be unable to market, manage and report on our products, services and financial results in a timely and accurate manner. 22 Table of Contents The Companys Business Could Suffer If It Is Unable To Attract, Retain and Motivate Skilled Senior Leaders The Companys success depends, in large part, on its ability to retain key senior leaders, and competition for such senior leaders can be intense in most areas of the Companys business. The executive compensation provisions of the EESA, including amendments to such provisions implemented under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, are expected to limit the types of compensation arrangements that the Company may enter into with its most senior leaders upon adoption of implementing standards by the U.S. Treasury These standards, and any further legislation or regulation restricting executive compensation could have a negative impact on the Companys ability to attract, retain and motivate such leaders in support of the Companys long term strategy. In addition, many of the companies with which the Company competes for senior talent may not be subject to such compensation limitations. If we are unable to retain talented senior leadership, our business could suffer. Certain Of Our Businesses Are Subject To Increased Litigation Risks Our credit card business is subject to increased litigation as a result of the structure of the credit card industry, and we face risks from the outcomes of such industry litigation. Substantial legal liability against the Company could have a material adverse financial effect or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business. For a full description of the litigation risks that we face in connection with the structure of the credit card industry, please refer to Industry Litigation in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations I. Introduction Capital One Financial Corporation (the Corporation) is a diversified financial services company whose banking and non banking subsidiaries market a variety of financial products and services. The Corporations principal subsidiaries are: Capital One Bank, (USA), National Association (COBNA) which currently offers credit and debit card products, other lending products and deposit products. Capital One, National Association (CONA) which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and financial services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. The Corporation and its subsidiaries are hereafter collectively referred to as the Company. The Company continues to deliver on its strategy of combining the power of national scale lending and local scale banking. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $108.6 billion in deposits and $146.9 billion in managed loans outstanding. The Companys earnings are primarily driven by lending to consumers and commercial customers and by deposit taking activities which generate net interest income, and by activities that generate non interest income, including the sale and servicing of loans and providing fee based services to customers. Customer usage and payment patterns, credit quality, levels of marketing expense and operating efficiency all affect the Companys profitability. The Companys primary expenses are the costs of funding assets, provision for loan and lease losses, operating expenses (including associate salaries and benefits, infrastructure maintenance and enhancements, and branch operations and expansion costs), marketing expenses, and income taxes. 28 Table of Contents During 2008, the Corporation completed several reorganizations and consolidations to streamline operations and regulatory relationships. On January 1, Capital One Auto Finance Inc. (COAF) moved from a direct subsidiary of the Corporation to become a direct operating subsidiary of CONA. In connection with the COAF move, one of COAFs direct operating subsidiaries, Onyx Acceptance Corporation (Onyx), became a direct subsidiary of the Corporation. On March 1, the Corporation converted Capital One Bank from a Virginia state chartered bank to a national association, Capital One Bank (USA), National Association (COBNA). On March 8, Superior Savings of New England, N.A. (Superior) merged with and into CONA. Both COBNA and CONA are primarily regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the OCC). In May 2008, we consolidated the business and operations of two registered broker dealers, Capital One Securities, LLC (dba Capital One Investments, LLC) and Capital One Investment Services Corporation (formerly NFB Investment Services Corporation), into Capital One Investments Services Corporation. In addition, in May 2008, we consolidated the business and operations of three insurance agencies, Capital One Agency Corp., GreenPoint Agency, Inc. and Hibernia Insurance Agency, LLC into Green Point Agency, Inc., which is now known as Capital One Agency LLC. During the first quarter of 2008, the Company reorganized its National Lending sub segments. Segment and sub segment results have been restated for all periods presented. The National Lending segment consists of the following sub segments: U.S. Card sub segment which consists of the Companys domestic credit card business, including small business credit cards, and the installment loan businesses. Other National Lending sub segment which includes the Companys auto finance and international lending sub segments. On December 4, 2008, the Company announced its intention to acquire Chevy Chase Bank F.S.B., the largest retail depository institution in the Washington, D.C. region in a cash and stock transaction valued at approximately $520 million. On February 13, 2009, the Company received approval from the Federal Reserve to acquire all of the shares of Chevy Chase Bank F.S.B. and certain of its subsidiaries. The Company expects the transaction to close in the first quarter of 2009. During 2007, Capital One F.S.B. and North Fork Bank merged with and into CONA. During 2007, the Company shut down the mortgage origination operations of its wholesale mortgage banking unit, GreenPoint Mortgage (GreenPoint), an operating subsidiary of CONA. Additional information can be found in 
 
