Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010 and related notes. This discussion contains forward looking statements that are based upon managements current expectations and are subject to significant uncertainties and changes in circumstances. Please review Item 1. BusinessForward Looking Statements for more information on the forward looking statements in this report. Our actual results may differ materially from those included in these forward looking statements due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, those described in this report in Item 1A. Risk Factors. INTRODUCTION We are a diversified financial services company with banking and non banking subsidiaries that market a variety of financial products and services. We continue to deliver on our strategy of combining the power of national scale lending and local scale banking. Our revenues are primarily driven by lending to consumers and commercial customers and by deposit taking activities, which generate net interest income, and by activities that generate non interest income, including the sale and servicing of loans and providing fee based services to customers. Customer usage and payment patterns, credit quality, levels of marketing expense and operating efficiency all affect our profitability. Our expenses primarily consist of the cost of funding our assets, our provision for loan and lease losses, operating expenses (including associate salaries and benefits, infrastructure maintenance and enhancements, and branch operations and expansion costs), marketing expenses and income taxes. We had $125.9 billion in total loans outstanding and $122.2 billion in deposits as of December 31, 2010, compared with $136 .8 billion in total managed loans outstanding and $115.8 billion in deposits as of December 31, 2009. We evaluate our financial performance and report our results through three operating segments: Credit Card, Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. Credit Card: Consists of our domestic consumer and small business card lending, national small business lending, national closed end installment lending and the international card lending businesses in Canada and the United Kingdom. Consumer Banking: Consists of our branch based lending and deposit gathering activities for consumer and small businesses, national deposit gathering, national automobile lending and consumer home loan lending and servicing activities. Commercial Banking: Consists of our lending, deposit gathering and treasury management services to commercial real estate and middle market customers. Table 1 summarizes our business segment results for 2010, 2009 and 2008. We report our business segment results based on income from continuing operations, net of tax. Table 1: Business Segment Results(1) Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Total Revenue (2) Net Income (Loss)(3) Total Revenue (2) Net Income (Loss)(3) Total Revenue (2) Net Income (Loss)(3) (Dollars in millions) Amount % of Total Amount % of Total Amount % of Total Amount % of Total Amount % of Total Amount % of Total Credit Card $ 10,614 66 % $ 2,274 75 % $ 11,289 67 % $ 978 99 % $ 12,142 72 % $ 1,067 1,255 % Consumer Banking 4,597 28 905 30 3,986 24 244 25 3,717 22 (980 ) (1,153 ) Commercial Banking 1,473 9 160 5 1,316 8 (213 ) (22 ) 1,106 7 254 299 Other(4) (507 ) (3 ) (289 ) (10 ) 245 1 (22 ) (2 ) (126 ) (1 ) (256 ) (301 ) Total from continuing operations $ 16,177 100 % $ 3,050 100 % $ 16,836 100 % $ 987 100 % $ 16,839 100 % $ 85 100 % (1) See Note 20Business Segments for a reconciliation of our total business segment results to our consolidated U.S. GAAP results. (2) Total revenue consists of net interest income and non interest income. Total revenue displayed for 2009 and 2008 is based on our non GAAP managed basis results. For more information on this measure and a reconciliation to the comparable U.S. GAAP measure, see Exhibit 99.1. 22 Table of Contents (3) Includes the residual impact of the allocation of our centralized Corporate Treasury group activities, such as management of our corporate investment portfolio and asset/liability management, to our business segments as well as other items as described in Note 20Business Segments. (4) During the first quarter of 2009, the results relating to Chevy Chase Bank were included in the Other category. IMPACT FROM ADOPTION OF NEW CONSOLIDATION ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Impact on Reported Financial Information Effective January 1, 2010, we prospectively adopted two new accounting standards that had a significant impact on our accounting for entities previously considered to be off balance sheet arrangements. The adoption of these new accounting standards resulted in the consolidation of our credit card securitization trusts, one of our installment loan trusts and certain option adjustable rate mortgages (option ARM) loan trusts originated by Chevy Chase Bank. Prior to January 1, 2010, transfers of our credit card receivables, installment loans and certain option adjustable rate mortgage loans to our securitization trusts were accounted for as sales and treated as off balance sheet. At the adoption of these new accounting standards on January 1, 2010, we added to our reported consolidated balance sheet $41.9 billion of assets, cons isting primarily of credit card loan receivables underlying the consolidated securitization trusts, along with $44.3 billion of related debt issued by these trusts to third party investors. We also recorded an after tax charge to retained earnings on January 1, 2010 of $2.9 billion, reflecting the net cumulative effect of adopting these new accounting standards. This charge primarily related to the addition of $4.3 billion to our allowance for loan and lease losses for the newly consolidated loans and the recording of $1.6 billion in related deferred tax assets. The initial recording of these amounts on our reported balance sheet as of January 1, 2010 had no impact on our reported income. We provide additional information on the impact on our financial statements from the adoption of these new accounting standards in Note 1Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 7Variable Interest Entities and Securitizations. We discuss the impact on our capit al ratios below in Liquidity and Capital Management Capital. Although the adoption of these new accounting standards does not change the economic risk to our business, specifically our exposure to liquidity, credit and interest rate risks, the prospective adoption of these rules has a significant impact on our capital ratios and the presentation of our reported consolidated financial statements, including changes in the classification of specific consolidated statements of income line items. The most significant changes to our reported consolidated financial statements are outlined below: Financial Statement Accounting and Presentation Changes Balance Sheet Significant increase in restricted cash, securitized loans and securitized debt resulting from the consolidation of securitization trusts. Significant increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses resulting from the establishment of a loan loss reserve for the loans underlying the consolidated securitization trusts. Significant reduction in accounts receivable from securitizations resulting from the reversal of retained interests held in securitization trusts that have been consolidated. Statement of Income Significant increase in interest income and interest expense attributable to the securitized loans and debt underlying the consolidated securitization trusts. Changes in the amount recorded for the provision for loan and lease losses, resulting from the establishment of an allowance for loan and lease losses for the loans underlying the consolidated securitization trusts. Amounts previously recorded as servicing and securitization income are now classified in our results of operations in the same manner as the earnings on loans not held in securitization trusts. Statement of Cash Flows Significant change in the amounts of cash flows from investing and financing activities. 23 Table of Contents Beginning with the first quarter of 2010, our reported consolidated statements of income no longer reflect securitization and servicing income related to newly consolidated loans. Instead, we report interest income, net charge offs and certain other income associated with securitized loan receivables and interest expense associated with the debt securities issued from the trust to third party investors in the same consolidated statements of income categories as loan receivables and corporate debt. Additionally, we no longer record initial gains on new securitization activity since the majority of our securitized loans will no longer receive sale accounting treatment. Because our securitization transactions are being accounted for under the new consolidation accounting rules as secured borrowings rather than asset sales, the cash flows fro m these transactions are presented as cash flows from financing activities rather than as cash flows from operating or investing activities. Notwithstanding this change in accounting, our securitization transactions are structured to legally isolate the receivables from our company, and we do not expect to be able to access the assets of our securitization trusts. We do, however, continue to have the rights associated with our retained interests in the assets of these trusts. Because we prospectively adopted the new consolidation accounting standards, our historical reported results and consolidated financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2010 reflect our securitization trusts as off balance sheet in accordance with the applicable accounting guidance in effect during this period. Accordingly, our reported results and consolidated financial statements subsequent to January 1, 2010 are not presented on a basis consistent with our reported results and consolidated financial statements for periods prior to January 1, 2010. This inconsistency limits the comparability of our post January 1, 2010 reported results to our prior period reported results. Impact on Non GAAP Managed Financial Information In addition to analyzing our results on a reported basis, management historically evaluated our total company and business segment results on a non GAAP managed basis. Our managed presentations reflected the results from both our on balance sheet loans and off balance sheet loans and excluded the impact of card securitization activity. Our managed presentations assumed that our securitized loans had not been sold and that the earnings from securitized loans were classified in our results of operations in the same manner as the earnings on loans that we owned. Our managed results also reflected differences in accounting for the valuation of retained interests and the recognition of gains and losses on the sale of interest only strips. Our managed results did not include the addition of an allowance for loan and lease losses f or the loans underlying our off balance sheet securitization trusts. While our managed presentation resulted in differences in the classification of revenues in our income statement, net income on a managed basis was the same as reported net income. Prior to January 1, 2010, we used our non GAAP managed basis presentation to evaluate the credit performance and overall financial performance of our entire managed loan portfolio because the same underwriting standards and ongoing risk monitoring are used for both securitized loans and loans that we own. In addition, we used the managed presentation as the basis for making decisions about funding our operations and allocating resources, such as employees and capital. Because management used our managed basis presentation to evaluate our performance, we also provided this information to investors. We believed that our managed basis information was useful to investors because it portrayed the results of both on and off balance sheet loans that we managed, which enabled investors to understand the credit risks associated with the portfolio of loans reported on our consolidated balance sheet and our retained interests in securitized loans. In periods prior to January 1, 2010, certain of our non GAAP managed measures differed from the comparable reported measures. The adoption on January 1, 2010 of the new consolidation accounting standards resulted in accounting for the loans in our securitization trusts in our reported financial statements in a manner similar to how we account for these loans on a managed basis. As a result, our reported and managed basis presentations are generally comparable for periods beginning after January 1, 2010. We believe that investors will be able to better understand our financial results and evaluate trends in our business if our period over period data are reflected on a more comparable basis. Accordingly, unless otherwise noted, this MD&A compares our reported U.S. GAAP financial information as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 with our non GAAP managed based financial information as of and for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. We provide a reconciliation of our non GAAP managed based information for periods prior to January 1, 2010 to the most comparable reported U.S. GAAP information in Exhibit 99.1. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND BUSINESS OUTLOOK We continued to operate in an environment of elevated economic and regulatory uncertainty during 2010. The overall economic recovery remained modest and fragile. The unemployment rate remained persistently high at close to 10% and the housing market continued to struggle, due in part to the large backlog of homes in the foreclosure process and high rate of delinquent loans. The ongoing and expected development of new regulations and regulatory organizations resulting from the recently enacted Dodd Frank Act contributed to continued regulatory uncertainty. 24 Table of Contents Despite the challenges presented by these conditions, we began to see some stabilization in loan volumes, as well as improvements in our credit results that outpaced the economic recovery during 2010. Each of our businesses performed well during the year, generating net income of $2.7 billion ($6.01 per diluted share) in 2010, which represented a substantial increase of $1.9 billion over our reported net income of $884 million ($0.74 per diluted share) in 2009. We provide highlights of our 2010 financial performance below. Financial Highlights As noted above, the presentation of our results on a non GAAP managed basis prior to January 1, 2010 assumed that our securitized loans had not been sold and that the earnings from securitized loans were classified in our results of operations in the same manner as the earnings on loans that we owned. These classification differences resulted in differences in certain revenue and expense components of our results of operations on a reported basis and our results of operations on a managed basis, although net income for both basis was the same. We provide a summary of our managed results for 2009 and 2008 in "Note 20 Business Segments." The $1.9 billion increase in our reported net income in 2010 was largely attributable to a substantial reduction in the provision for loan and lease losses, which was partially offset by an increase in losses from discontinued operations and a decrease in total revenue. Decrease in Provision for Loan and Lease Losses: The provision for loan and lease losses decreased by $4.2 billion, or 52%, to $3.9 billion in 2010. The decrease in the provision was driven by the continued improvement of our credit quality indicators as a result of the slowly improving economy and actions taken by us over the past several years to improve underwriting standards and exit portfolios with unattractive credit metrics. As a result, we recorded a net release of $2.8 billion in 2010 in our allowance, after taking into consideration the addition to our allowance on January 1, 2010 from the adoption of the new consolidation accounting standards compared with a net allowance release of $397 million in 2009. Increase in Loss from Discontinued Operations: The loss from discontinued operations increased by $204 million to $307 million in 2010, primarily due to a significant increase in the provision for mortgage loan repurchase losses related to the discontinued operations of the wholesale mortgage banking unit of GreenPoint, which we closed in 2007. We recorded an after tax provision for mortgage loan repurchase losses related to discontinued operations of $304 million ($432 million pre tax) in 2010, compared with an after tax provision related to discontinued operations of $120 million ($162 million pre tax) in 2009. Decrease in Total Revenue: Total revenue decreased by $659 million, or 4%, in 2010, largely due to a decline in non interest fee income attributable to a reduction in customer accounts, and loan balances and the implementation of provisions of the CARD Act, which resulted in a reduction in penalty fees. Below are additional highlights of our performance for 2010. These highlights generally are based on a comparison of our reported results for 2010 to our managed results for 2009. The highlights of changes in our financial condition and credit performance are generally based on our reported financial condition and credit statistics as of December 31, 2010, compared with our financial condition and credit performance on a managed basis as of December 31, 2009. We provide a more detailed discussion of our results of operation, financial condition and credit performance in Consolidated Results of Operations Financial Performance, Consolidated Balance Sheet Analysis and Credit Performance and Business Segment Financial Performance. Credit Card: Our Credit Card business generated income of $2.3 billion in 2010, compared with income of $978 million in 2009. The primary drivers of the improvement in our Credit Card business results were an increase in the net interest margin and a significant decrease in the provision for loan and lease losses. The increase in the net interest margin was attributable to the combined impact of higher asset yields and lower funding costs. The increase in the average yield on our credit card loan portfolio reflected the benefit of pricing changes that we implemented during 2009 and the continued benefit from rising collectability estimates due to favorable credit trends, while the decrease in our funding costs was attributable to the lower interest rate environment and shift in our funding mix to lower cost deposits fr om higher cost wholesale sources. The decrease in the provision for loan and lease losses was due to more favorable credit quality trends as well as a decline in outstanding loan balances. 25 Table of Contents Consumer Banking: Our Consumer Banking business generated income of $905 million in 2010, compared with income of $244 million in 2009. The significant improvement in profitability in our Consumer Banking business was attributable to improved credit conditions and consumer credit performance, particularly within our auto loan portfolio, including reduced charge offs. Our Consumer Banking business also benefited from deposit growth resulting from our continued strategy to leverage our bank outlets to attract lower cost funding sources and from improved deposit spreads, as we continue to shift the mix of our deposits to lower cost consumer savings and money market deposits from higher cost time deposits. Commercial Banking: Our Commercial Banking business generated income of $160 million in 2010, compared with a loss of $213 million in 2009. The improvement in results for our Commercial Banking business in 2010 from 2009 was attributable to the stabilization in credit performance trends since the end of 2009, resulting in a significant reduction in the provision for loan and lease losses. Strong deposit growth resulting from our continued strategy to grow deposits as a lower cost funding source, as well as improved deposit spreads resulting from repricing of higher rate deposits to lower rates in response to the overall lower interest rate environment also provided a benefit to our Commercial Banking business. While our Commercial Banking credit metrics remain elevated, the commercial real estate market has exhibi ted signs of continuing improvement, including increasing leasing activity, declining vacancies and re entry of traditional commercial real estate investors and sponsors into the market, particularly in New York where we have our most significant concentration. Total Loans: Total loans held for investment decreased by $10.9 billion, or 8%, in 2010 to $125.9 billion as of December 31, 2010, from $136.8 billion as of December 31, 2009. This decrease was primarily due to the expected run off of installment loans in our Credit Card business and home loans in our Consumer Banking business, elevated charge offs and weak consumer demand. Charge off and Delinquency Statistics: Although net charge off and delinquency rates remain elevated, these rates improved significantly in 2010. The net charge off rate decreased to 5.18% in 2010, from 5.87% in 2009, and the 30+ day performing delinquency rate decreased to 3.52% in 2010, from 4.62% in 2009. Based on strong credit performance trends, such as the significant decline in the 30+ day performing delinquency rate from 4.62% at the end of 2009, we believe our net charge offs resulting from the severe economic downturn peaked in the first quarter of 2010. Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses: As a result of the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance, we increased our allowance for loan and lease losses by $4.3 billion to $8.4 billion on January 1, 2010. The initial recording of this amount on our reported balance sheet as of January 1, 2010 reduced our stockholders equity but had no impact on our reported results of operations. After taking into consideration the $4.3 billion addition to our allowance for loan and lease losses on January 1, 2010, our allowance for loan and lease losses decreased by $2.8 billion to $5.6 billion as of December 31, 2010. The decrease was attributable to an overall improvement in credit quality trends, as well as the decrease in loan balances. The allowance as a percentage of our total reported loans held for investment was 4.47% as of December 31, 2010, compared with 4.55% as of December 31, 2009. Representation and Warranty Reserve: We have established reserves for our mortgage loan repurchase exposure related to the sale of mortgage loans by our subsidiaries to various parties under contractual provisions that include various representations and warranties. These reserves reflect inherent losses as of each balance sheet date that we consider to be both probable and reasonably estimable. We recorded a provision for this exposure of $636 million in 2010, of which $204 million was included in non interest income and $432 million was included in discontinued operations. In comparison, we recorded a provision of $181 million in 2009, of which $19 million was included in non interest income and $162 million was included in discontinued operations. Because of the significant increase in claim requests from government sponsored entities ("GSEs") and Active Insured Securitizations and litigation activity during 2010, we refined our loss estimation process and made certain changes in assumptions. During second quarter of 2010, we extended the timeframe over which we estimated our repurchase liability for mortgage loans sold by our subsidiaries to GSEs and those mortgage loans placed into Active Insured Securitizations for the full life of the mortgage loans, which resulted in a significant increase in the provision for mortgage loan repurchase losses. Of the $636 million of provision recorded in 2010, approximately $407 million resulted from our ability to extend the timeframe over which we estimated our repurchase liability. The remaining $229 million related primarily to changing counterparty activity in the form of updated estimates around active and probable litigation, most of which occurred in the first quarter of 2010. Our representation and warranty reserves totaled $816 million as of December 31, 2010, compared with $238 million as of December 31, 2009. Capital Adequacy:While the consolidation of the loans underlying our securitization trusts on January 1, 2010 reduced our capital ratios, our financial strength and capacity to absorb risk remained high. Our Tier 1 risk based capital ratio of 11.63% as of December 31, 2010 was comfortably above the current minimum regulatory requirement of 4.0%. Our non GAAP Tier 1 common equity ratio was 8.78% as of December 31, 2010, while our non GAAP tangible common equity to tangible managed assets (TCE ratio) was 6.86%. See Exhibit 99.1 for a calculation of our regulatory capital ratios and a reconciliation of our non GAAP capital measures. 26 Table of Contents Business Environment and Significant Recent Developments The lingering economic and regulatory impacts of 2010 will likely impact the full year income statement in 2011. We expect that 2011 revenue will reflect the full year effects of revenue impacts that began in 2010, including changes to revenue in our Credit Card business as a result of the CARD Act implementation and the reductions in fee revenues brought on by new regulations. We expect the slow paced economic recovery will continue, with the overall unemployment rate expected to remain elevated for an extended period of time. We also continue to see risks in the housing market, due in part to the large backlog of homes in the foreclosure process and high rate of delinquent loans, which could be exacerbated if recent disruptions in industry foreclosure practices continue. W e anticipate over the course of coming quarters to see evidence of the path to solid and sustained performance. We believe that substantially all of the impacts on revenue related to CARD Act regulations were reflected in our fourth quarter revenue margins. We expect relatively less impact from other aspects of the recently enacted financial legislation. We provide more information on recent regulatory developments in Supervision and Regulation in Item 1. Business of this report. Business Outlook We discuss below our current expectations regarding our total company performance and the performance of each of our business segments over the near term based on market conditions, the regulatory environment and our business strategies as of the time we filed this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The statements contained in this section are based on our current expectations regarding our outlook for our financial results and business strategies. Our expectations take into account, and should be read in conjunction with, our expectations regarding economic trends and analysis of our business as discussed in Item 1. Business and MD&A of this report. Certain statements are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those in our forward looking statements. Forward looking statements do not reflect (i) any change in current dividend or repurchase strategies, (ii) the effect of any acquisitions, divestitures or similar transactions or (iii) any changes in laws, regulations or regulatory interpretations, in each case after the date as of which such statements are made. See Forward Looking Statements in Item 1. Business of this report for factors that could materially influence our results. Total Company Expectations We believe we are emerging from the recession in a strong position to deliver attractive and sustainable results over the long term, including moderate growth and attractive risk adjusted returns on assets in our Credit Card and Auto Finance businesses, moderate growth in low risk loans in our Commercial Banking business and strong growth in low cost deposits and high quality commercial and retail customer relationships. Based on recent trends and our targeted initiatives to attract new business and develop customer relationships, we believe there is reasonable potential for loan growth during 2011, which will depend on consumer demand. Total Loans: Loan balances stabilized in the second half of 2010, reflecting the decline in charge offs, gradual abatement of expected portfolio run offs and seasonal consumer spending trends. The lower starting point for loan balances from 2010 will cause the average loan balances in 2011 to be comparable to 2010, even as we expect period end balances to grow. The timing and pace of expected growth will depend on broader economic trends that impact overall consumer and commercial demand. Expenses: We anticipate that non interest expenses will increase in 2011, assuming that the increase in marketing opportunities we observed in late 2010 continues through 2011. Provision for Loan and Lease Losses: Based on the underlying credit trends we are experiencing, we expect that charge offs will continue their downward trend, although the pace of the allowance releases of 2010 is likely to abate during 2011. We expect that the improvement in credit trends in our Consumer Lending businesses will continue to outpace the economic recovery. We believe that the worst of the Commercial Banking business credit downturn is behind us; however, we expect a few more quarters of fluctuations in the charge off and nonperforming loan metrics in our Commercial Banking business. Margins: Margins will be affected as the onboarding of lower yield and lower loss assets are offset by a lower year over year average cost of funds and higher transaction volume. We expect margins to remain at strong levels, although they may drift downward modestly, depending upon the competitive environment and the timing and pace of loan growth. We expect continued funding mix shift towards deposits in 2011, which should provide modest funding cost benefits to net interest margin. Capital: We expect regulatory capital ratios to rise steadily after a temporary decline in the first quarter of 2011. Although capital measures such as our non GAAP TCE are expected to rise steadily, we expect our Tier 1 risk based capital ratio and our non GAAP Tier 1 common equity ratio to decline into the first quarter of 2011, primarily due to two factors that affect the numerator and denominator used in calculating these ratios: (i) a decrease in the numerator resulting from the disallowance of a portion of the deferred tax assets and (ii) an increase in the denominator due to the remaining phase in during the first quarter of 2011 of risk weighted assets resulting from the new consolidation accounting standards. Even with the expected increase in our lo an balances, the completion of this consolidation will most likely lead to slower growth in the denominator of our regulatory capital ratios over the next couple of years as compared to the recent past. We expect the numerator of these ratios will rise not only as we generate earnings but also with the steady decline in our disallowed deferred tax asset amount, which we expect will be around $2.0 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2011 and will largely disappear over the next couple of years. 27 Table of Contents Based on the current definitions proposed by the Basel Committee, we expect to exceed in 2011 the Basel III minimum common equity ratio, including the capital conservation buffer. We expect that our strong capital position and generation will enable us to deploy capital in the service of shareholders to generate attractive returns in 2011 and beyond. Business Segment Expectations Credit Card Business We expect that normal seasonal patterns will drive a decline in Domestic Card loan balances in the first quarter of 2011, and that the first quarter of 2011 will be the low point for Domestic Card loan balances. After the first quarter of 2011, we expect loan balances in our Credit Card business to grow. By the end of the second quarter of 2011, we expect Domestic Card loan balances to be higher than balances at the end of 2010. We expect further growth in the second half of 2011. We anticipate modest improvements from current charge off levels in 2011. We expect to add partnership loan portfolios and growth platforms, including launching the recently announced partnership with Kohls Department Stores, Inc., which we expect to settle in the second quarter of 2011. Consumer Banking Business In our Consumer Banking business, we expect that Auto Finance origination volumes and returns will remain strong in 2011. We expect our Retail Banking business will continue to deliver strong growth in low cost deposits and valuable customer relationships. Commercial Banking Business In our Commercial Banking business, nonperforming asset rates and criticized loans continue to improve modestly, and, as such, we believe that the worst of the Commercial Banking business credit deterioration cycle is behind us. We believe, however, that the charge off rate for our Commercial Banking business will continue to fluctuate over the next several quarters. We expect to grow our Commercial Banking loan portfolio in 2011. Based on strong deposit growth and new commercial customer relationships in 2010, we expect to generate future loan and revenue growth by expanding the relationships with our customers in 2011 and beyond. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make a number of judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, income and expenses in the consolidated financial statements. Understanding our accounting policies and the extent to which we use management judgment and estimates in applying these policies is integral to understanding our financial statements. We provide a summary of our significant accounting policies in Note 1Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. We have identified the following accounting policies as critical because they require significant judgments and assumptions about highly complex and inherently uncertain matters and the use of reasonably different estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on our reported results of operations or financial condition. These critical accounting policies govern: Fair value Allowance for loan and lease losses Asset impairment 28 Table of Contents Representation and warranty reserve Revenue recognition Derivative and hedge accounting Income taxes We evaluate our critical accounting estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis and update them as necessary based on changing conditions. Management has reviewed and approved these critical accounting policies and has discussed these policies with the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. Fair Value Fair value is defined as the price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date (also referred to as an exit price). The fair value accounting guidance provides a three level fair value hierarchy for classifying financial instruments. This hierarchy is based on whether the inputs to the valuation techniques used to measure fair value are observable or unobservable. Fair value measurement of a financial asset or liability is assigned to a level based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are described below: Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: Observable market based inputs, other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 3: Unobservable inputs. The degree of management judgment involved in determining the fair value of a financial instrument is dependent upon the availability of quoted prices in active markets or observable market parameters. When quoted prices and observable data in active markets are not fully available, management judgment is necessary to estimate fair value. Changes in market conditions, such as reduced liquidity in the capital markets or changes in secondary market activities, may reduce the availability and reliability of quoted prices or observable data used to determine fair value. We have developed policies and procedures to determine when markets for our financial assets and liabilities are inactive if the level and volume of activity has declined significantly relative to normal conditions. If markets are determined to be inactive, it may be appropriate to adjust price quotes received. When significant adjustments are required to price quotes or inputs, it may be appropriate to utilize an estimate based primarily on unobservable inputs. Significant judgment may be required to determine whether certain financial instruments measured at fair value are included in Level 2 or Level 3. In making this determination, we consider all available information that market participants use to measure the fair value of the financial instrument, including observable market data, indications of market liquidity and orderliness, and our understanding of the valuation techniques and significant inputs used. Based upon the specific facts and circumstances of each instrument or instrument category, judgments are made regarding the significance of the Level 3 inputs to the instruments fair value measurement in its entirety. If Level 3 inputs are considered significant, the instrument is classified as Level 3. The process for determining fair value using unobservable inp uts is generally more subjective and involves a high degree of management judgment and assumptions. Our financial instruments recorded at fair value on a recurring basis represented approximately 22% of our total reported assets of $197.5 billion as of December 31, 2010, compared with 26% of our total reported assets of $169.6 billion as of December 31, 2009. Financial assets for which the fair value was determined using significant Level 3 inputs represented approximately 2% of these financial instruments (1% of total assets) as of December 31, 2010, and approximately 14% of these financial instruments (4% of total assets) as of December 31, 2009. The decreases in the percentage of financial instruments measured at a fair value on a recurring basis and in the percentage of financial instruments measured using Level 3 inputs were primarily attributable to the increase in our assets from the adoption of the new consolidati on accounting standards, as the consolidated loans are generally classified as held for investment and are therefore not measured at fair value on a recurring basis. We discuss changes in the valuation inputs and assumptions used in determining the fair value of our financial instruments, including the extent to which we have relied on significant unobservable inputs to estimate fair value and our process for corroborating these inputs, in Note 19Fair Value of Financial Instruments. 29 Table of Contents Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses Our allowance for loan and lease losses provides for probable credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of each balance sheet date. We have an established process, using analytical tools, benchmarks and management judgment, to determine our allowance for loan and lease losses. We calculate the allowance for loan and lease losses by estimating probable losses separately for segments of our loan portfolio with similar risk characteristics. We generally review and assess our allowance methodologies and adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses on a quarterly basis. Our assessment involves evaluating many factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, recent trends in delinquencies and charge offs, risk ratings, the impact of bankruptcy filings, deceased and recovered amounts, the value of collateral underlying secured loans, account seasoning, changes in our credit evaluation, underwriting and collection management policies, seasonality, general economic conditions, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and uncertainties in forecasting and modeling techniques used in estimating our allowance for loan and lease losses. Key factors that have a significant impact on our allowance for loan and lease losses include assumptions about unemplo yment rates, home prices, and the valuation of commercial properties, consumer real estate, and automobiles. Although we examine a variety of externally available data, as well as our internal loan performance data, to determine our allowance for loan and lease losses, our estimation process is subject to risks and uncertainties, including a reliance on historical loss and trend information that may not be representative of current conditions and indicative of future performance. Accordingly, our actual credit loss experience may not be in line with our expectations. For example, as a result of improving credit performance trends during 2010, charge offs began to decrease and we recorded a significant allowance release of $2.8 billion. We provide additional information on the methodologies and key assumptions used in determining our allowance for loan and lease losses for each of our loan portfolio segments in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. We provide information on the components of our allowance, disaggregated by impairment methodology, and changes in our allowance in Note 6Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses. Asset Impairment We review other assets for impairment on a regular basis. This process requires significant management judgment and involves various estimates and assumptions. Our investment securities and goodwill and intangible assets represent a significant portion of our other assets. Accordingly, below we describe our process for assessing impairment of these assets and the key estimates and assumptions involved in this process. Investment Securities We regularly review investment securities for other than temporary impairment using both quantitative and qualitative criteria. Effective April 1, 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended and modified the requirements for recognizing and measuring other than temporary impairment for debt securities. If we intend to sell a security in an unrealized loss position or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell a security before its anticipated recovery, the entire difference between the amortized cost basis of the security and its fair value is recognized in earnings. If we do not intend to sell the security and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of ou r amortized cost, we evaluate other qualitative criteria to determine whether a credit loss exists. Our evaluation requires significant management judgment and a consideration of many factors, including, but not limited to, the extent and duration of the impairment; the health of and specific prospects for the issuer, including whether the issuer has failed to make scheduled interest or principal payments; recent events specific to the issuer and or industry to which the issuer belongs; the payment structure of the security; external credit ratings; the value of underlying collateral and current market conditions. Quantitative criteria include assessing whether there has been an adverse change in expected future cash flows. For equity securities, our evaluation criteria include the length of time and magnitude of the amount that each security is in an unrealized loss position. See Note 4Investment Securities for additional information. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets As a result of our acquisitions, principally Hibernia Corporation in 2005, North Fork Bancorporation in 2006, and Chevy Chase Bank in 2009, we have goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill resulting from business combinations prior to January 1, 2009 represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill resulting from business combinations after January 1, 2009, is generally determined as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred, plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree, over the fair value of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. We had goodwill of $13.6 billion recorded on our consolidated balance sheets as of both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Other intangible asset s consist primarily of core deposit intangibles. Other intangible assets, which we report on our consolidated balance sheets as a component of other assets, totaled $733 million and $906 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Goodwill and other intangible assets together represented 7% of our total assets as of December 31, 2010, compared with 9% of total assets as of December 31, 2009. 30 Table of Contents Goodwill is not amortized but must be allocated to reporting units and tested for impairment on an annual basis or in interim periods if events or circumstances indicate potential impairment. A reporting unit is a business segment or one level below. Our reporting units for purposes of goodwill impairment testing are Domestic Card, International Card, Auto Finance, other Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. We perform our annual goodwill impairment test for all reporting units as of October 1 each year using a two step process. First, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its current carrying amount, including goodwill.If the fair value of the reporting unit is in excess of the carrying value, the related goo dwill is considered not to be impaired and no further analysis is necessary. If, however, the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, there is an indication of potential impairment and a second step of testing is performed to measure the amount of impairment, if any, for that reporting unit. Estimating the fair value of reporting units and the assets, liabilities and intangible assets of a reporting unit is a subjective process that involves the use of estimates and judgments, particularly related to cash flows, the appropriate discount rates and an applicable control premium. Management judgment is required to assess whether the carrying value of the reporting unit can be supported by the fair value of the individual reporting unit. There are widely accepted valuation methodologies, such as the market approach (earnings multiples and or transaction multiples) and or discounted cash flow methods, that are used to estimate the fair value of reporting units. In applying these methodologies, we utilize a number of factors, including actual operating results, future business plans, economic projec tions, and market data. We also may engage an independent valuation specialist to assist in our valuation process. In estimating the fair value of the reporting units in step one of the goodwill impairment analysis, fair values can be sensitive to changes in the projected cash flows and assumptions. In some instances, minor changes in the assumptions could impact whether the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount. Furthermore, a prolonged decrease or increase in a particular assumption could eventually lead to the fair value of a reporting unit being less than its carrying amount. Also, to the extent step two of the goodwill analysis is required, changes in the estimated fair values of individual assets and liabilities may impact other estimates of fair value for assets or liabilities and result in a different amount of implied goodwill, and ultimately the amount of goodwill impairment, if any. In conducting our goodwill impairment test for 2010, we determined the fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow analysis, a form of the income approach. Our discounted cash flow analysis required management to make judgments about future loan and deposit growth, revenue growth, credit losses, and capital rates. We relied on each reporting units internal cash flow forecast and calculated a terminal value using a growth rate that reflected the nominal growth rate of the economy as a whole and appropriate discount rates for the respective reporting units. We adjusted cash flows as necessary to maintain each reporting units equity capital requirements. The cash flows were discounted to present value using reporting unit specific discount rates that were largely based on our external cost of equit y, adjusted for risks inherent in each reporting unit. We corroborated the key inputs used in our discounted cash flow analysis with market data, where available, to validate that our assumptions were within a reasonable range of observable market data. Based on the results of step one of our 2010 goodwill impairment test, we determined that the carrying amount of each of our reporting units, including goodwill, exceeded the fair value. Accordingly, the goodwill of our reporting units was considered not impaired, and the second step of impairment testing was not required. However, assuming all other factors were held constant, a 34% decline in the fair value of the Domestic Card reporting unit, a 14% decline in the fair value of the International Card reporting unit, a 37% decline in the fair value of the Auto Finance reporting unit, a 30% decline in the fair value of the Commercial Banking reporting unit and a 21% decline in the fair value of the other Consumer Banking reporting unit would have caused the carrying amount for those reporting units to be in excess of fair value which would require the second step to be performed. As part of the annual goodwill impairment test, we assessed our market capitalization based on the average market price relative to the aggregate fair value of our reporting units and determined that any excess fair value in our reporting units at that time could be attributed to a reasonable control premium compared to historical control premiums seen in the industry. During 2009, the lack of liquidity in the financial markets and the continued economic deterioration led to a decline in market capitalization resulting in significantly higher control premiums than what had been seen historically. Throughout 2010, our capitalization rate increased resulting in a decline in our implied control premium. We will continue to regularly monitor our market capitalization in 2011, overall economic condit ions and other events or circumstances that may result in an impairment of goodwill in the future. 31 Table of Contents Intangible assets with definite useful lives are amortized over their estimated lives and evaluated for potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that an assets or asset groups carrying value may not be fully recoverable. An impairment loss, generally calculated as the difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of an asset or asset group, is recognized if the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset or asset group is less than the corresponding carrying value. We did not recognize impairment on our other intangible assets in 2010, 2009 or 2008. We provide additional information on the nature of and accounting for goodwill and intangible assets, including the process and methodology used to conduct goodwill impairment testing, in Note 8Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Representation and Warranty Reserve In connection with their sales of mortgage loans, certain subsidiaries entered into agreements containing varying representations and warranties about, among other things, the ownership of the loan, the validity of the lien securing the loan, the loans compliance with any applicable loan criteria established by the purchaser, including underwriting guidelines and the ongoing existence of mortgage insurance, and the loans compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws. We may be required to repurchase the mortgage loan, indemnify the investor or insurer, or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan in the event of a material breach of contractual representations or warranties. We have established representation and warranty reserves for losses that we consider to be both probable and reasonably estimable associated with the mortgage loans sold by each subsidiary, including both litigation and non litigation liabilities. The reserve setting process relies heavily on estimates, which are inherently uncertain, and requires the application of judgment. In establishing the representation and warranty reserves, we consider a variety of factors, depending on the category of purchaser and rely on historical data. We evaluate these estimates on a quarterly basis. During the first and second quarters of 2010, we made significant refinements to our process for estimating our representation and warranty reserve, due primarily to increased counterparty activity and our ability to extend the timeframe over which we estimate our repurchase liability for mortgage loans sold by our subsidiaries to GSEs and those mortgage loans placed into Active Insured Securitizations for the full life of the mortgage loans. Prior to the second quarter of 2010, we generally estimated the amount of probable repurchase requests to be received over the next 12 months. As a result of these refinements, we recorded a substantial increase in our representation and warranty repurchase reserve in the first and second quarters of 201 0. Approximately $407 million of the $636 million of provision for representation and warranty reserves recorded in 2010 resulted from our extension of repurchase liability estimates to the life of the loan effective in the second quarter of 2010. The remaining $229 million related primarily to changing counterparty activity in the form of updated estimates around active and probable litigation, most of which occurred in the first quarter of 2010. Our aggregate representation and warranty mortgage repurchase reserves, which we report as a component of other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets, totaled $816 million as of December 31, 2010, compared with $238 million as of December 31, 2009. The adequacy of the reserves and the ultimate amount of losses incurred by us or one of our subsidiaries will depend on, among other things, actual future mortgage loan performance, the actual level of future repurchase and indemnification requests, the actual success rates of claimants, developments in litigation, actual recoveries on the collateral and macroeconomic conditions (including unemployment levels and housing prices). See Consolidated Balance Sheet Analysis and Credit Perform ancePotential Mortgage Representation & Warranty Liabilities below and Note 21Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees for additional information. Revenue Recognition We recognize earned finance charges, interest income and fees on loans in interest income in accordance with the contractual provisions of the credit arrangements. Interest and fees continue to accrue on past due loans until the date the loan is placed on nonaccrual status, if applicable. Interest and fees accrued but not collected at the date a loan is placed on nonaccrual status are reversed against earnings. Finance charges and fees on credit card loans are included in loan receivables when billed to the customer. We continue to accrue finance charges and fees on credit card loans until the account is charged off. However, when we do not expect full payment of billed finance charges and fees, we reduce the balance of our credit card loan receivables by the amount of finance charges billed but not expect ed to be collected and exclude this amount from interest income. Revenue was reduced by $950 million, $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, for the estimated uncollectible portion of billed finance charges and fees. Our methodology for estimating the uncollectible portion of billed finance charges and fees is consistent with the methodology we use to estimate the allowance for incurred principal losses on our credit card loan receivables. Accordingly, the estimation process is subject to similar risks and uncertainties, including a reliance on historical loss and trend information that may not be representative of current conditions and indicative of future performance. Changes in key assumptions may have a material impact on the amount of billed finance charges and fees we estimate as uncollectible in each period. 32 Table of Contents Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We primarily use derivative instruments to manage our exposure to interest rate risk, and to a lesser extent, foreign currency risk. Our derivatives are designated as either qualifying accounting hedges or free standing derivatives. Free standing derivatives consist of customer accommodation derivatives and economic hedges that we enter into for risk management purposes that are not linked to specific assets or liabilities or to forecasted transactions and, therefore, do not qualify for hedge accounting. Qualifying accounting hedges are designated as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges. Although all derivative financial instruments, whether designated for hedge accounting or not, are reported at their fair value on our consolidated balance sheets , the accounting for changes in the fair value of derivative instruments differs based on whether the derivative has been designated as a qualifying accounting hedge and the type of accounting hedge. To obtain and maintain hedge accounting, we must be able to establish at inception that the hedging instrument is effective at offsetting the risk of the hedged item both retrospectively and prospectively, and ensure documentation meets stringent requirements. The process to test effectiveness requires applying judgment and estimation, including the number of data points to test to ensure adequate and appropriate measurement to confirm or dispel hedge effectiveness and valuation of data within effectiveness tests where external existing data available do not perfectly match the companys circumstances. Without hedge accounting, we may experience significant volatility in our earnings as we would be required to recognize all changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments in earnings. We p rovide detail on derivatives gains and losses recognized in our earnings in 2010, 2009 and 2008 and amounts related to cash flow hedges recorded in AOCI as of December 31, 2010 in Note 11Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. Income Taxes Our annual income tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective governmental taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining our tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions, including evaluating uncertainties. We review our tax positions quarterly and adjust the balances as new information becomes available. Deferred income tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. These sources of income rely heavily on estimates. We use our historical experience and our short and long range business forecasts to provide insight. Amounts recorded for deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, were $4.0 billion and $3.7 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We had recorded a valuation allowance of $130 million and $109 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We currently expect to fully recover the net deferred tax asset amounts at the end of 2010 within the applicable statutory expiration periods. To the extent we do not consider it more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will be recovered, a valuation allowance is established. If changes in circumstances lead us to change our judgment about our ability to realize deferred tax assets in future years, we would adjust our valuation allowances in the period that the change in circumstances occurs and record a corresponding increase or charge to income. We provide additional information on income taxes in Consolidated Results of Operations Financial Performance and in Note 18Income Taxes. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS New accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting pronouncements may have a significant effect on our results of operations, financial condition, stockholders equity, capital ratios or business operations. As discussed above, effective January 1, 2010, we adopted two new accounting standards that had a significant impact on the manner in which we account for our securitization transactions, our consolidated financial statements and our capital ratios. These new accounting standards eliminated the concept of qualified special purpose entities (QSPEs), revised the accounting for transfers of financial assets and changed the consolidation criteria for variable interest entities (VIEs). Under the new accounting guidance, the determination to consolidate a VIE is based on a qualitative assessmen t of which party to the VIE has power combined with potentially significant benefits or losses, instead of the previous quantitative risks and rewards model. Consolidation is required when an entity has the power to direct matters which significantly impact the economic performance of the VIE, together with either the obligation to absorb losses or the rights to receive benefits that could be significant to the VIE. The prospective adoption of this new accounting guidance resulted in our consolidating substantially all our existing securitization trusts that had previously been off balance sheet and eliminated sales treatment for new transfers of loans to securitization trusts. 33 Table of Contents We provide additional information on the impact of these new accounting standards above in Impact from Adoption of New Consolidation Accounting Standards and in Note 1Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. We also identify and discuss the impact of other significant recently issued accounting pronouncements, including those not yet adopted, in Note 1Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in various types of transactions with limited liability companies, partnerships or trusts that often involve special purpose entities (SPEs) and VIEs. Some of these arrangements are not recorded on our consolidated balance sheets or may be recorded in amounts different from the full contract or notional amount of the transaction, depending on the nature or structure of, and accounting required to be applied to, the arrangement. These arrangements may expose us to potential losses in excess of the amounts recorded in the consolidated balance sheets. Our involvement in these arrangements can take many forms, including securitization and servicing activities, the purchase or sale of mortgage backed or other asset backed securities in connection with our home loan portfoli o, and loans to VIEs that hold debt, equity, real estate or other assets. Under previous accounting guidance, we were not required to consolidate the majority of our securitization trusts because they were QSPEs. Accordingly, we considered these trusts to be off balance sheet arrangements. In June 2009, the FASB issued two new accounting standards that eliminated the concept of QSPEs, revised the accounting for transfers of financial assets and changed the consolidation criteria for VIEs. As discussed above in Impact from Adoption of New Consolidation Accounting Standards, we prospectively adopted these new standards on January 1, 2010, which resulted in the consolidation of our credit card securitization trusts, one installment loan trust, certain option ARM loan trusts originated by Chevy Chase Bank for which we provide servicing and certain affordable housing entities. All of our remaining securitization trusts were consolidated or liquidated as of December 31, 2010. Our continuing involvement in unconsolidated VIEs primarily consists of certain mortgage loan trusts and community reinvestment and development entities. The carrying amount of assets and liabilities of these unconsolidated VIEs was $2.0 billion and $344 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2010, and our maximum exposure to loss was $2.2 billion. We provide a discussion of our activities related to these VIEs in Note 7Variable Interest Entities and Securitizations. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE As indicated above under Impact from Adoption of New Consolidation Accounting Standards, our reported results subsequent to January 1, 2010 are not presented on a basis consistent with our reported results prior to January 1, 2010 as a result of our adoption of the new consolidation accounting standards. Our reported results subsequent to January 1, 2010 are more comparable to our managed results because we assumed for our managed based reporting that our securitized loans had not been sold and that the earnings from securitized loans were classified in our results of operations in the same manner as the earnings on loans that we owned. Accordingly, the section below provides a comparative discussion of our reported consolidated results of operations for 2010 and our managed results for 2009 and 2008.&# 160; Our net income on a managed basis in 2009 and 2008 is the same as our reported net income; however, there are differences in the classification of certain amounts in our managed income statement, which we identify in our discussion. See Exhibit 99.1 for a reconciliation of our non GAAP managed based information for periods prior to January 1, 2010 to the most comparable reported U.S. GAAP information. Net Interest Income Net interest income represents the difference between the interest income and applicable fees earned on our interest earning assets, which includes loans held for investment and investment securities, and the interest expense on our interest bearing liabilities, which includes interest bearing deposits, senior and subordinated notes, securitized debt and other borrowings. We include in interest income any past due fees on loans that we deem are collectible. Our net interest margin represents the difference between the yield on our interest earning assets and the cost of our interest bearing liabilities, including the impact of non interest bearing funding. Prior to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting standards on January 1, 2010, our reported net interest income did not include interest income from loans in our off balance sh eet securitization trusts or the interest expense on third party debt issued by these securitization trusts. Beginning January 1, 2010, servicing fees, finance charges, other fees, net charge offs and interest paid to third party investors related to consolidated securitization trusts are included in net interest income. 34 Table of Contents Table 2 below displays the major sources of our interest income and interest expense for 2010, 2009 and 2008. We present for each major category of our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, the average outstanding balances, the interest earned or paid and the average yield or cost during the period in Table A under Supplemental Statistical Tables. We expect net interest income and our net interest margin to fluctuate based on changes in interest rates and changes in the amount and composition of our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities. Table 2: Net Interest Income Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 (1) 2008 (Dollars in millions) Reported Managed Reported Managed Reported Managed Interest income: Loans held for investment: Consumer loans(2) $ 12,656 $ 12,664 $ 7,237 $ 12,915 $ 7,748 $ 14,316 Commercial loans 1,278 1,278 1,520 1,520 1,712 1,712 Total loans held for investment, including past due fees 13,934 13,942 8,757 14,435 9,460 16,028 Investment securities 1,342 1,342 1,610 1,610 1,224 1,224 Other 77 77 297 68 428 199 Total interest income 15,353 15,361 10,664 16,113 11,112 17,451 Interest expense: Deposits 1,465 1,465 2,093 2,093 2,512 2,512 Securitized debt obligations 809 813 282 1,339 550 2,616 Senior and subordinated notes 276 276 260 260 445 445 Other borrowings 346 346 332 332 456 456 Total interest expense 2,896 2,900 2,967 4,024 3,963 6,029 Net interest income $ 12,457 $ 12,461 $ 7,697 $ 12,089 $ 7,149 $ 11,422 (1) Effective February 27, 2009, we acquired Chevy Chase Bank. Accordingly, our results for 2009 include only a partial impact from Chevy Chase Bank. (2) Interest income on credit card, auto, home and retail banking loans is reflected in consumer loans. Interest income generated from small business credit cards also is included in consumer loans. Table 3 presents changes in our reported net interest income between periods and the extent to which those changes were attributable to: (i) changes in the volume of our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities or (ii) changes in the interest rates of these assets and liabilities. 35 Table of Contents Table 3: Rate/Volume Analysis of Net Interest IncomeReported Years Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009(1) 2009(1) vs. 2008(1) Total Variance Due to (2) Total Variance Due to (2) (Dollars in millions) Variance Volume Rate Variance Volume Rate Interest income: Loans held for investment: Consumer loans $ 5,419 $ 3,479 $ 1,940 $ (511 ) $ (53 ) $ (458 ) Commercial loans (242 ) (22 ) (220 ) (192 ) 75 (267 ) Total loans held for investment, including past due fees 5,177 3,457 1,720 (703 ) 22 (725 ) Investment securities (268 ) 107 (375 ) 386 529 (143 ) Other (220 ) (28 ) (192 ) (131 ) (21 ) (110 ) Total interest income 4,689 3,536 1,153 (448 ) 530 (978 ) Interest expense: Deposits (628 ) 33 (661 ) (419 ) 530 (949 ) Securitized debt obligations 527 752 (225 ) (268 ) (232 ) (36 ) Senior and subordinated notes 16 (1 ) 17 (185 ) (13 ) (172 ) Other borrowings 14 (104 ) 118 (124 ) (101 ) (23 ) Total interest expense (71 ) 680 (751 ) (996 ) 184 (1,180 ) Net interest income $ 4,760 $ 2,856 $ 1,904 $ 548 $ 346 $ 202 (1) Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. (2) We calculate the change in interest income and interest expense separately for each item. The change in net interest income attributable to both volume and rates is allocated based on the relative dollar amount of each item. Table 4 presents changes in our reported net interest income for 2010 from our managed net interest income for 2009 and changes between our 2009 and 2008 managed net interest income, and the extent to which those changes were attributable to: (i) changes in the volume of our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities or (ii) changes in the interest rates of these assets and liabilities. Table 4: Rate/Volume Analysis of Net Interest IncomeManaged Years Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009(1) 2009(1) vs. 2008(1) Total Variance Due to (2) Total Variance Due to (2) (Dollars in millions) Variance Volume Rate Variance Volume Rate Interest income: Loans held for investment: Consumer loans $ (251 ) $ (1,748 ) $ 1,497 $ (1,401 ) $ (656 ) $ (745 ) Commercial loans (242 ) (22 ) (220 ) (192 ) 75 (267 ) Total loans held for investment, including past due fees (493 ) (1,770 ) 1,277 (1,593 ) (581 ) (1,012 ) Investment securities (268 ) 107 (375 ) 386 529 (143 ) Other 9 23 (14 ) (131 ) (25 ) (106 ) Total interest income (752 ) (1,640 ) 888 (1,338 ) (77 ) (1,261 ) Interest expense: Deposits (628 ) 33 (661 ) (419 ) 530 (949 ) Securitized debt obligations (526 ) (318 ) (208 ) (1,277 ) (435 ) (842 ) Senior and subordinated notes 16 (1 ) 17 (185 ) (13 ) (172 ) Other borrowings 14 (104 ) 118 (124 ) (101 ) (23 ) Total interest expense (1,124 ) (390 ) (734 ) (2,005 ) (19 ) (1,986 ) Net interest income $ 372 $ (1,250 ) $ 1,622 $ 667 $ (58 ) $ 725 (1) Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. (2) We calculate the change in interest income and interest expense separately for each item. The change in net interest income attributable to both volume and rates is allocated based on the relative dollar amount of each item. 36 Table of Contents Our reported net interest income of $12.5 billion in 2010 increased by 3% from managed net interest income of $12.1 billion in 2009, driven by a 9% (59 basis points) expansion of our net interest margin to 7.09%, which was partially offset by a 5% decrease in average interest earning assets. The increase in net interest margin in 2010 was primarily attributable to a significant reduction in our average cost of funds, coupled with an increase in the average yield on interest earning assets. Our cost of funds continued to benefit from the shift in the mix of our funding to lower cost consumer and commercial banking deposits from higher cost wholesale sources. Also, the overall interest rate environment, combined with our disciplined pricing, drove a decrease in our average deposit interest rates. The increase in the average yield on our interest earning assets during 2010 reflected the benefit of pricing changes that we implemented during 2009, which contributed to an increase in the average yield on our loan portfolio, as well as improved credit conditions, which has allowed us to recognize a greater proportion of previously r eserved uncollected finance charges into income. The decrease in average interest earning assets resulted from the run off of loans in business that we exited or repositioned, elevated charge offs and weak consumer demand. Our managed net interest income of $12.1 billion in 2009 increased by 6% from managed net interest income of $11.4 billion in 2008, driven by a 2% (13 basis points) expansion of our net interest margin to 6.50% and a 4% increase in our average interest earning assets. The increase was largely due to a reduction in our average cost of funds, attributable to the low interest rate environment and shift in our funding mix to lower cost deposits. Non Interest Income Non interest income consists of servicing and securitizations income, service charges and other customer related fees, interchange income and other non interest income. We also record the mortgage loan repurchase provision related to continuing operations in non interest income. Prior to the adoption of the new consolidation accounting standards on January 1, 2010, our reported non interest income included servicing fees, finance charges, other fees, net charge offs and interest paid to third party investors related to our securitization trusts as a component of non interest income. In addition, when we created securitization trusts, we recognized gains or losses on the transfer of loans to these trusts and recorded our initial retained interests in the trusts. Effective January 1, 2010, unless we qualify for sale accounti ng under the new consolidation accounting standards, we no longer recognize a gain or loss or record retained interests when we transfer loans into securitization trusts. The servicing fees, finance charges, other fees, net of charge offs and interest paid to third party investors related to our consolidated securitization trusts are now reported as a component of net interest income instead of as a component of non interest income. Table 5 displays the components of non interest income for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Table 5: Non Interest Income Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009(1) 2008 (Dollars in millions) Reported Reported Managed Reported Managed Non interest income: Servicing and securitizations $ 7 $ 2,280 $ (193 ) $ 3,385 $ (299 ) Service charges and other customer related fees 2,073 1,997 3,025 2,232 3,687 Interchange 1,340 502 1,408 562 1,464 Net other than temporary impairment (OTTI) (65 ) (32 ) (32 ) (11 ) (11 ) Other 359 539 539 576 576 Total non interest income $ 3,714 $ 5,286 $ 4,747 $ 6,744 $ 5,417 (1) Effective February 27, 2009, we acquired Chevy Chase Bank. Accordingly, our results for 2009 include only a partial impact from Chevy Chase Bank. Non interest income of $3.7 billion in 2010 decreased by $1.0 billion, or 22%, from managed non interest income of $4.7 billion in 2009. Managed non interest income of $4.7 billion in 2009 decreased by $670 million, or 12%, from managed non interest income of $5.4 billion in 2008. The $1.0 billion decrease in non interest income in 2010 from 2009 was primarily attributable to a reduction in over limit fees as result of provisions under the CARD Act, a decline in the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights due to the run off of our home loan portfolio, and an increase in the provision for mortgage loan repurchases. We recorded a provision for mortgage loan repurchase losses of $636 million in 2010, $204 million of which was included in non interest income, and a provision of $181 million in 2009, of which $19 million was included in non interest income. We provide additional information on representation and warranty claims in Critical Accounting Polices and Estimates and in Consolidated Balance Sheet Analysis and Credit PerformancePotential Mortgage Representation and Warranty Liabilities. 37 Table of Contents The net other than temporary impairment losses of $65 million and $32 million recorded in 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily resulted from the deterioration in the credit quality of certain non agency mortgage related securities due to the continued weakness in the housing market and high unemployment. We also recorded other than temporary impairment on certain other non agency mortgage related securities in 2010 because of our intent to sell the securities. We provide additional information on other than temporary impairment recognized on our available for sale securities in Note 4Investment Securities. The $670 million decrease in managed non interest income in 2009 from 2008 was largely due to reduced service charges and customer related fees as a result of lower overlimit and cash advance fees. Provision for Loan and Lease Losses We build our allowance for loan and lease losses through the provision for loan and lease losses. Our provision for loan and lease losses in each period is driven by charge offs and the level of allowance for loan and lease losses that we determine is necessary to provide for probable credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of each balance sheet date. We recorded a reported provision for loan and lease losses of $3.9 billion in 2010, compared with a reported provision for loan and lease losses of $4.2 billion in 2009 and $5.1 billion in 2008. Our managed provision for loan and lease losses totaled $8.1 billon and $8.0 billon in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The significant decrease in the managed provision expense for loan and lease losses in 2010 was attributable to reduced charge offs and continued improvement in credit performance, as well as a reduction in our loan portfolio balance. As a result, we recorded a significant reduction in our allowance for loan and lease losses during 2010. The decrease in the provision for loan and lease losses in 2009 from 2008 was largely due to a significant decline in our loan portfolio balance. Table 22 below, under Consolidated Balance Sheet AnalysisSummary of Reported Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses summarizes changes in our allowance for loan and lease losses and details the provision for loan and lease losses recognized in our consolidated statements of income and the charge offs recorded against our allowance for loan and lease losses in 2010, 2009 and 2008. Non Interest Expense Non interest expense consists of ongoing operating costs, such as salaries and associated employee benefits, communications and other technology expenses, supplies and equipment and occupancy costs, and miscellaneous expenses. Marketing expenses are also included in non interest expense. Table 6 displays the components of non interest expense for 2010, 2009 and 2008. Table 6: Non Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Reported Reported/ Managed(1) Reported/ Managed(1) Non interest expense: Salaries and associated benefits $ 2,594 $ 2,478 $ 2,336 Marketing 958 588 1,118 Communications and data processing 693 740 756 Supplies and equipment 520 500 520 Occupancy 486 451 377 Restructuring expense 119 134 Other(2) 2,683 2,541 2,969 Total non interest expense $ 7,934 $ 7,417 $ 8,210 (1) There were no differences between reported and managed non interest expense amounts for 2009 and 2008. (2) Consists of professional services expenses, credit collection costs, fee assessments and intangible amortization expense. Other non interest expense for 2008 includes goodwill impairment of $811 million related to the Auto Finance division of our Consumer Banking business. 38 Table of Contents Non interest expense of $7.9 billion in 2010 was up $517 million, or 7%, from 2009. The increase was primarily due increases in marketing expenditures and salaries and associate benefits, partially offset by the absence of restructuring charges. As the economy gradually improved, we substantially increased our marketing expenditures during 2010, from suppressed levels in 2009, to attract and support new business volume through a variety of channels. In 2009, we completed the restructuring of our operations that was initiated in 2007 to improve our competitive cost position as well as reduce certain expenses. Non interest expense of $7.4 billion in 2009 was down $793 million, or 10%, from 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the absence of a goodwill impairment charge of $811 million recorded in 2008, as well as a reduction in marketing expenditures during 2009 in response to the severe economic downturn. The goodwill impairment charge in 2008 was attributable to the Auto Finance division of our Consumer Banking business and reflected a reduction in the estimated fair value of this business due to our strategic decision to scale back origination volume. Income Taxes Our effective income tax rate based on income from continuing operations was 29.56%, 26.16% and 85.47% in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The variance in our effective tax rate between periods is due, in part, to fluctuations in our pre tax earnings, which affects the relative tax benefit of tax exempt income, tax credits and permanent tax items. The increase in our effective tax rate in 2010 from 2009 reflected the reduced relative benefit of tax exempt income and tax credits as a result of the increase in our pre tax earnings.We recorded a $90 million tax benefit primarily related to the settlement of certain pre acquisition tax liabilities related to North Fork and the resolution of certain tax issues before the U.S. Tax Court in 2010, which partially offset the increase in our effective tax rate for this period. The significant decrease in our effective income tax rate in 2009 from 2008 was primarily attributable to the goodwill impairment charge of $811 million recorded in 2008, a portion of which was non deductible.Our effective tax rate in 2008 excluding the impact of non deductible goodwill impairment was 37.8%. In addition, increased tax credits, reductions in unrecognized tax benefits due to tax settlements and resolutions and changes in our international tax position had a favorable impact on our 2009 effective tax rate. Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Loss from discontinued operations reflects ongoing costs, which primarily consist of mortgage loan repurchase representation and warranty charges, related to the mortgage origination operations of GreenPoints wholesale mortgage banking unit, which we closed in 2007. We recorded a loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $307 million, $103 million and $131 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The significant increase in loss from discontinued operations in 2010 was attributable to the increase in our mortgage loan repurchase representation and warranty reserves. We recorded a pre tax provision for mortgage loan repurchase exposure of $636 million in 2010, of which $432 million ($304 million net of tax) was included in discontinued operations. In comparison, we recorded a pre tax provision for mortgage loan repurchase exposure of $181 million in 2009, of which $162 million ($120 million net of tax) was included in discontinued operations. We provide additional information on representation and warranty claims in Critical Accounting Polices and Estimates and in Consolidated Balance Sheet Analysis and Credit PerformancePotential Mortgage Representation and Warranty Liabilities. BUSINESS SEGMENT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Our principal operations are currently organized into three major business segments, which are defined based on the products and services provided, or the type of customer served: Credit Card, Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. The operations of acquired businesses have been integrated into our existing business segments. The results of our individual businesses, which we report on a continuing operations basis, reflect the manner in which management evaluates performance and makes decisions about funding our operations and allocating resources. Our business segment results are intended to reflect each segment as if it were a stand alone business. We use an internal management and reporting process to derive our business segment results. Our internal management and reporting process employs various allocation methodologies, including funds transfer pricing, to assign certain managed balance sheet assets, deposits and other liabilities and their related revenue and expenses directly or indirectly attributable to each business segment. 39 Table of Contents We refer to the business segment results derived from our internal management accounting and reporting process as our managed presentation, which differs in some cases from our reported results prepared based on U.S. GAAP. There is no comprehensive, authoritative body of guidance for management accounting equivalent to U.S. GAAP; therefore, the managed basis presentation of our business segment results may not be comparable to similar information provided by other financial service companies. In addition, our individual business segment results should not be used as a substitute for comparable results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We provide additional information on our business segments, including the basis of presentation, business segment reporting methodologies, and a reconciliation of our tota l business segment results to our reported consolidated results in Note 20Business Segments. We summarize our business segment results for 2010, 2009 and 2008 in the tables below and provide a comparative discussion of these results. We may periodically change our business segments or reclassify business segment results based on modifications to our management reporting methodologies and changes in organizational alignment. In 2009, we realigned our organizational structure and business segment reporting to reflect our operating results by product type and customer segment and to integrate the operations of Chevy Chase Bank. Prior period amounts have been recast to conform to the current period presentation. We provide information on the outlook for each of our business segments above under Executive Summary and Business Outlook. Credit Card Business Our Credit Card business generated income of $2.3 billion in 2010, compared with income of $978 million in 2009 and $1.1 billion in 2008. The primary sources of revenue for our Credit Card business are net interest income and non interest income from customer and interchange fees. Expenses primarily consist of ongoing operating costs, such as salaries and associated benefits, communications and other technology expenses, supplies and equipment and occupancy costs, as well as marketing expenses. Table 7 summarizes the financial results of our Credit Card business, which is comprised of Domestic Card, installment loans and International Card operations, and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated. In conjunction with our Sony Card partnership, we acquired the $807 million legacy Sony Card portfolio on September 1, 2010. The Sony Card acquisition did not have a material impact on the results of our Credit Card business in 2010. Table 7: Credit Card Business Results Change Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 vs. (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 2008 2009 2008 Selected income statement data: Net interest income $ 7,894 $ 7,542 $ 7,464 5 % 1 % Non interest income 2,720 3,747 4,678 (27 ) (20 ) Total revenue 10,614 11,289 12,142 (6 ) (7 ) Provision for loan and lease losses 3,188 6,051 6,108 (47 ) (1 ) Non interest expense 3,951 3,738 4,393 6 (15 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 3,475 1,500 1,641 132 (9 ) Income tax provision 1,201 522 574 130 (9 ) Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 2,274 $ 978 $ 1,067 133 % (8 )% Selected metrics: Average loans held for investment $ 62,632 $ 73,076 $ 79,209 (14 )% (8 )% Average yield on loans held for investment 14.36 % 12.90 % 13.20 % 146 bps (30) bps Revenue margin(1) 16.95 15.45 15.33 150 12 Net charge off rate(2) 8.79 9.15 6.26 (36 ) 289 Purchase volume(3) $ 106,912 $ 102,068 $ 113,835 5 % (10 )% December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Change Selected period end data: Loans held for investment $ 61,371 $ 68,524 (10 )% 30+ day delinquency rate 4.29 % 5.88 % (159 )bps Allowance for loan and lease losses(4) $ 4,041 $ 2,126 90 % 40 Table of Contents (1) Revenue margin is calculated by dividing annualized revenues for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. (2) Net charge off rate is calculated by dividing annualized net charge offs for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. (3) Consists of purchase transactions for the period, net of returns. Excludes cash advance transactions. (4) As a result of the January 1, 2010 adoption of the new consolidation accounting standards, we added $4.2 billion to the allowance related to our Credit Card business on January 1, 2010, resulting in an allowance of $6.4 billion as of January 1, 2010. The allowance decreased during the remainder of 2010 by $2.3 billion, or 37%. Key factors affecting the results of our Credit Card business for 2010, compared with 2009 included the following: Net Interest Income: Our Credit Card business experienced an increase in net interest income of $352 million, or 5%, in 2010, which was primarily attributable to higher asset yields that more than offset a decline in average loans held for investment. The increase in the average yield on our credit card loan portfolio reflected the benefit of pricing changes that were implemented during 2009 and a reduction in the level of loans with low introductory promotional rates. Net interest income also reflected the benefit of the recognition into income of an increased amount of previously suppressed billed finance charges and fees as a result of improving credit trends. Non Interest Income: Non interest income decreased by $1.0 billion, or 27%, in 2010. The decrease was primarily attributable to a reduction in penalty fees resulting from the implementation of provisions of the CARD Act and a reduction in customer accounts. Provision for Loan and Lease Losses: The provision for loan and lease losses related to our Credit Card business decreased by $2.9 billion in 2010, to $3.2 billion. The substantial reduction in the provision was driven by improved credit trends, as evidenced by a reduction in the net charge off rate and a decrease and stabilization of delinquency rates throughout the year, as well as lower period end loan balances. As a result of the more positive credit performance trends and reduced loan balances, the Credit Card business recorded a net allowance release (after taking into consideration the $4.2 billion addition to the allowance on January 1, 2010 from the adoption of the new consolidation accounting standards) of $2.3 billion in 2010. In comparison, our Credit Card business recorded an allowance release of $611 million in 2009. The release in 2009 was driven by the reduction in period end loans, which more than offset the impact of the continued deterioration in the credit performance of our credit card portfolio due to the severe economic downturn. Non Interest Expense: Non interest expense increased by $212 million, or 6%, in 2010. The increase reflects the impact of an increase in marketing expenses, which has been partially offset by a decrease in operating expenses due to the reduction in customer accounts and targeted cost savings across our Credit Card business. As the economy gradually improved, we increased our marketing expenditures during 2010 from suppressed levels in 2009 to attract and support new business volume through a variety of channels. Total Loans: Period end loans in the Credit Card business declined by $7.2 billion, or 10%, in 2010, to $61.4 billion as of December 31, 2010, from $68.5 billion as of December 31, 2009. Approximately $3.2 billion of the decrease was due to the run off of installment loans in our Domestic Card division. The remaining decrease, which was partially offset by the addition of the Sony Card portfolio, was attributable to elevated net charge offs, weak consumer demand and historically lower marketing expenditures in 2009 and 2010 as result of the severe economic downturn. Charge off and Delinquency Statistics: Although net charge off and delinquency rates remain elevated, these rates continued to improve throughout 2010. The net charge off rate decreased to 8.79% in 2010, from 9.15% in 2009. The 30+ day delinquency rate decreased to 4.29% as of December 31, 2010, from 5.88% as of December 31, 2009. Based on continued improvement and stabilization of credit performance, we believe net charge offs for our Credit Card business resulting from the severe economic downturn peaked in the first quarter of 2010. Key factors affecting the results of our Credit Card business for 2009, compared with 2008 included the following: Net Interest Income: Our Credit Card business experienced a modest increase in net interest income of $78 million, or 1%, in 2009, as higher interest margins slightly offset the reduction in net interest income attributable to declining loan balances. 41 Table of Contents Non Interest Income: Non interest income decreased by $931 million, or 20%, to $3.7 billion, primarily due to lower fees as a result of a reduction in customer accounts and significantly lower purchase volume. The severe economic downturn led to a contraction in consumer spending, which reduced overlimit fee income. Provision for Loan and Lease Losses: The provision for loan and lease losses related to our Credit Card business of $6.1 billion in 2009 remained elevated at relatively the same level as 2008, reflecting the impact of continued weak credit performance in 2009 due to the severe economic downturn that began in 2008. Despite the elevated provision, we recorded an allowance release of $611 million in 2009 driven by the reduction in period end loans. Non Interest Expense: Non interest expense decreased by $665 million, or 15%, in 2009. This decrease was driven by a substantial reduction in marketing expenses, by more than half, attributable to the severe economic downturn and lower operating expenses. The reduction in operating expenses reflected the impact of favorable exchange in our U.K. and the run off of our closed end loan portfolio. Total Loans: Period end loans in the Credit Card business declined by $11.2 billion, or 14%, in 2009, to $68.5 billion as of December 31, 2009. Approximately 43% of the decline was attributable to the run off of the closed end loan portfolio. The remaining decline was driven by reduced purchase volume in our revolving credit card businesses and elevated net charge offs. We added fewer new customer accounts during 2009 and existing customers maintained lower balances, partially attributable to the curtailment of our marketing expenditures during 2009 as well as the uncertain economic environment. Charge off and Delinquency Statistics: The substantial increase in the net charge off rate to 9.15% in 2009, from 6.26% in 2008 was attributable to the significant deterioration in credit performance as a result of the severe economic downturn that began in 2008, which resulted in rising unemployment and higher loan default rates throughout 2009. Virtually all of our credit metrics were adversely affected by economic conditions, including the 30+ day delinquency rate, which increased to 5.88% as of December 31, 2009, from 4.86% as of December 31, 2008. Table 7.1 summarizes the financial results for Domestic Card and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated. Domestic Card accounted for 87% of total revenues for our Credit Card business in 2010, compared with 89% in 2009 and 87% in 2008. Income attributable to Domestic Card represented 83% of income for our Credit Card business for 2010, compared with 94% in both 2009 and 2008. Because our Domestic Card business currently accounts for the substantial majority of our Credit Card business, the key factors driving the results for this division are similar to the key factors affecting our total Credit Card business. Table 7.1: Domestic Card Business Results Change Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 vs. (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 2008 2009 2008 Selected income statement data: Net interest income $ 6,912 $ 6,670 $ 6,492 4 % 3 % Non interest income 2,347 3,328 4,128 (29 ) (19 ) Total revenue 9,259 9,998 10,620 (7 ) (6 ) Provision for loan and lease losses 2,853 5,329 5,461 (46 ) (2 ) Non interest expense 3,457 3,256 3,623 6 (10 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 2,949 1,413 1,536 109 (8 ) Income tax provision 1,051 495 538 112 (8 ) Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 1,898 $ 918 $ 998 107 % (8 )% Selected metrics: Average loans held for investment $ 55,133 $ 64,670 $ 68,638 (15 )% (6 )% Average yield on loans held for investment 14.09 % 12.80 % 13.09 % 129 bps (29 )bps Revenue margin(1) 16.79 15.46 15.47 133 (1 ) Net charge off rate(2) 8.91 9.19 6.33 (28 ) 286 Purchase volume(3) $ 98,344 $ 93,566 $ 103,035 5 % (9 )% 42 Table of Contents December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Change Selected period end data: Loans held for investment $ 53,849 $ 60,300 (11 )% 30+ day delinquency rate 4.09 % 5.78 % (169 )bps (1) Revenue margin is calculated by dividing annualized revenues for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. (2) Net charge off rate is calculated by dividing annualized net charge offs for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. (3) Consists of purchase transactions for the period, net of returns. Excludes cash advance transactions. Income generated by our Domestic Card division of $1.9 billion in 2010, represented an increase of $980 million over 2009. The primary factors affecting Domestic Card results for 2010 compared with 2009 included a decline in total revenue due in part to lower loan balances and a reduction in overlimit and other penalty fees; a significant reduction in the provision for loan and lease losses as we recorded a substantial allowance release in response to more positive credit performance trends, including decreases in charge off and delinquency rates, and an increase in non interest expense attributable to higher marketing expenditures. Income generated by our Domestic Card division of $918 million in 2009, reflected a decrease of $80 million from 2008. The primary factors affecting Domestic Card results for 2009 compared with 2008 included a decline in total revenue primarily due to reduced fees resulting from the reduction in customer accounts and significantly lower purchase volume, a continued elevated provision for loan and lease losses due to credit performance deterioration and a decrease in non interest expense due to significantly curtailed marketing expenditures. Table 7.2 summarizes the financial results for International Card and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated. International Card accounted for 13% of total revenues for our Credit Card business in 2010, compared with 11% in 2009 and 13% in 2008. Income attributable to International Card represented 17% of income for our Credit Card business for 2010, compared with 6% in both 2009 and 2008. Table 7.2: International Card Business Results Change Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 vs. (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 2008 2009 2008 Selected income statement data: Net interest income $ 982 $ 872 $ 972 13 % (10 ) % Non interest income 373 419 550 (11 ) (24 ) Total revenue 1,355 1,291 1,522 5 (15 ) Provision for loan and lease losses 335 722 647 (53 ) 12 Non interest expense 494 482 770 2 (37 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 526 87 105 505 (17 ) Income tax provision 150 27 36 456 (25 ) Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 376 $ 60 $ 69 527 % (13 )% Selected metrics: Average loans held for investment $ 7,499 $ 8,405 $ 10,571 (11 )% (20 )% Average yield on loans held for investment 16.33 % 13.71 % 13.88 % 262 bps (17 )bps Revenue margin(1) 18.07 15.36 14.40 271 96 Net charge off rate(2) 7.89 8.83 5.77 (94 ) 306 Purchase volume(3) $ 8,568 $ 8,502 $ 10,800 1 % (21 )% December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Change Selected period end data: Loans held for investment $ 7,522 $ 8,224 (9 )% 30+ day delinquency rate 5.75 % 6.55 % (80 )bps (1) Revenue margin is calculated by dividing annualized revenues for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. 43 Table of Contents (2) Net charge off rate is calculated by dividing annualized net charge offs for the period by average loans held for investment during the period. (3) Consists of purchase transactions for the period, net of returns. Excludes cash advance transactions. Income generated by our International Card division of $376 million in 2010 increased $316 million from 2009. The most significant driver of the improvement in results was a $386 million decrease in the provision for loan and lease losses in 2010. As a result of decreases in charge off and delinquency rates, we recorded a substantial allowance release of $256 million in 2010, compared with an allowance release of $20 million in 2009. In addition, total revenue increased by $64 million, primarily due to the impact of pricing changes implemented during 2009 that resulted in increases in average asset yields that were partially offset by a decline in loan balances. Income generated by our International Card division of $60 million in 2009 decreased by $9 million from 2008, attributable to a decrease in total revenue and an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses that more than offset a reduction in non interest expense. The decline in revenue was due to the combined impact of foreign exchange fluctuations and a decline in customer accounts, which resulted in lower fees. Although loan balances declined, the provision for loan and lease losses increased due to deterioration in credit performance during 2009 as a result of weak economic conditions in Canada and the U.K. Consumer Banking Business Our Consumer Banking business generated income of $905 million in 2010, compared with income of $244 million in 2009 and a loss of $980 million in 2008. The loss in 2008 was largely attributable to goodwill impairment of $811 million. The primary sources of revenue for our Consumer Banking business are net interest income and non interest income from customer fees. Expenses primarily consist of ongoing operating costs, such as salaries and associated benefits, communications and other technology expenses, supplies and equipment and occupancy costs. Table 8 summarizes the financial results of our Consumer Banking business and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated. Table 8: Consumer Banking Business Results Change Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 vs. (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 2008 2009 2008 Selected income statement data: Net interest income $ 3,727 $ 3,231 $ 2,988 15 % 8 % Non interest income 870 755 729 15 4 Total revenue 4,597 3,986 3,717 15 7 Provision for loan and lease losses 241 876 1,534 (72 ) (43 ) Non interest expense(1) 2,950 2,734 3,264 8 (16 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 1,406 376 (1,081 ) 274 135 Income tax provision 501 132 (101 ) 280 231 Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 905 $ 244 $ (980 ) 271 % 125 % Selected metrics: Average loans held for investment: Automobile $ 17,551 $ 19,950 $ 23,490 (12 )% (15 )% Home loan 13,629 14,434 10,406 (6 ) 39 Retail banking 4,745 5,490 5,449 (14 ) 1 Total consumer banking $ 35,925 $ 39,874 $ 39,345 (10 )% 1 % Average yield on loans held for investment 9.11 % 8.94 % 9.69 % 17 bps (75 )bps Average deposits $ 78,083 $ 70,862 $ 56,998 10 % 24 % Average deposit interest rate 1.19 % 1.68 % 2.52 % (49 )bps (84 )bps Core deposit intangible amortization $ 144 $ 169 $ 153 (15 )% 10 % Net charge off rate(2) 1.82 % 2.74 % 3.09 % (92 )bps (35 )bps Automobile loan originations $ 7,764 $ 5,336 $ 6,874 46 % (22 )% 44 Table of Contents December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Change Selected period end data: Loans held for investment: Automobile $ 17,867 $ 18,186 (2 )% Home loan 12,103 14,893 (19 ) Retail banking 4,413 5,135 (14 ) Total consumer banking $ 34,383 $ 38,214 (10 )% Nonperforming loans as a percentage of loans held for investment(3) 1.97 % 1.45 % 52 bps Nonperforming asset rate(3) 2.17 1.60 57 30+ day performing delinquency rate(4) 4.28 5.06 (78 ) Allowance for loan and lease losses(5) $ 675 $ 1,076 (37 )% Period end deposits 82,959 74,145 12 Period end loans serviced for others 20,689 30,283 (32 ) (1) Non interest expense for 2008 includes goodwill impairment of $811 million attributable to the Consumer Banking business. (2) Average loans held for investment used in calculating net charge off rates includes the impact of loans acquired as part of the Chevy Chase Bank acquisition. The net charge off rate, excluding loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank from the denominator, was 2.16% and 3.17% in 2010 and 2009, respectively. (3) Our calculation of nonperforming loan and asset ratios includes the impact of loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank. However, we do not report loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank as nonperforming, as we recorded these loans at estimated fair value when we acquired them. The nonperforming loan ratio, excluding the impact of loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank from the denominator, was 2.30% and 1.75% as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Nonperforming assets consist of nonperforming loans and real estate owned (REO). The nonperforming asset rate is calculated by dividing nonperforming assets as of the end of the period by period end loans held for investment and REO. The nonperforming asset rate, excluding loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank from the denominator, was 2.54% and 1.93% as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (4) The 30+ day performing delinquency rate, excluding loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank from the denominator, was 5.01% as of December 31, 2010 and 6.10% as of December 31, 2009. (5) As a result of the January 1, 2010 adoption of the new consolidation accounting standards, we added $73 million to the allowance related to our Consumer Banking business on January 1, 2010, resulting in an allowance of $1.1 billion as of January 1, 2010. The allowance decreased during the remainder of 2010 by $474 million, or 43%. Key factors affecting the results of our Consumer Banking business for 2010, compared with 2009 included the following: Net Interest Income: Our Consumer Banking business experienced an increase in net interest income of $496 million, or 15%, in 2010. The primary drivers of the increase in net interest income were improved loan margins, primarily resulting from higher pricing for new auto loan originations, deposit growth resulting from our continued strategy to leverage our banking branches to attract lower cost funding sources and improved deposit spreads. The favorable impact from these factors more than offset the decline in average loans held for investment resulting from the continued run off of home loans and reduction in auto loans in 2010. Non Interest Income: Non interest income increased by $115 million, or 15%, in 2010. The increase was primarily attributable to a gain of $128 million recorded in the first quarter of 2010 related to the deconsolidation of certain option adjustable rate mortgage trusts that were consolidated on January 1, 2010 as a result of our adoption of the new consolidation accounting standards. Provision for Loan and Lease Losses: The provision for loan and lease losses decreased by $635 million in 2010, to $241 million. The substantial reduction in the provision was attributable to continued improvement in credit performance trends and reduced loan balances. Delinquency and charge off rates declined throughout the year, reflecting the impact of the gradual improvement in economic conditions and the higher credit quality of our most recent auto loan vintages. As a result, the Consumer Banking business recorded a net allowance release (after taking into consideration the impact of the $73 million addition to the allowance on January 1, 2010 from the adoption of the new consolidation accounting standards) of $474 million in 2010. In comparison, the Consumer Banking business reco rded an allowance release of $238 million in 2009, primarily due to declining loan balances. Non Interest Expense: Non interest expense increased by $216 million, or 8%, in 2010. This increase was largely attributable to infrastructure expenditures, primarily in our home loan and retail banking operations, made in 2010 to attract and support new business volume and to integrate Chevy Chase Bank, and increased marketing expenditures related to our retail banking operations. 45 Table of Contents Total Loans: Period end loans in the Consumer Banking business declined by $3.8 billion, or 10%, in 2010 to $34.4 billion as of December 31, 2010, from $38.2 billion as of December 31, 2009, primarily due to the run off of home loans and a reduction in auto loan balances. Deposits: Period end deposits in the Consumer Banking business increased by $8.8 billion, or 12%, during 2010 to $83.0 billion as of December 31, 2010, reflecting the impact of our strategy to replace maturing higher cost wholesale funding sources with lower cost funding sources and our increased retail marketing efforts to attract new business to meet this objective. Charge off and Delinquency Statistics: The net charge off and delinquency rates for the Consumer Banking business, improved during 2010 as a result of the improved economic environment and a tightening of our underwriting standards on new loan originations. The net charge off rate decreased to 1.82% as of December 31, 2010, down significantly from the net charge off rate of 2.74% as of December 31, 2009. The 30+ day performing delinquency rate, which was 4.28% as of December 31, 2010, has declined from a rate of 5.06% as of December 31, 2009. Key factors affecting the results of our Consumer Banking business for 2009, compared with 2008 included the following: Net Interest Income: Our Consumer Banking business experienced an increase in net interest income of $243 million, or 8%, in 2009, primarily attributable to the acquisition of the Chevy Chase Bank portfolio in the first quarter of 2009. Non Interest Income: Non interest income increased by $26 million, or 4%, in 2009, primarily driven by the acquisition of the Chevy Chase Bank portfolio in the first quarter of 2009. Provision for Loan and Lease Losses: The provision for loan and lease losses declined by $658 million, or 43%, in 2009. The decrease was primarily driven by reduced losses and shrinkage in our auto loan business, partially offset by allowance builds in the retail banking and home loan businesses. Non Interest Expense: Non interest expense decreased by $530 million, or 16%, in 2009. Excluding the impact of goodwill impairment of $811 million recognized in 2009, non interest expense increased by $281 million over 2008. This increase was driven by incremental operating costs from the Chevy Chase acquisition and increased loan workout and mitigation costs in the home loan business, which was partially offset by a significant decrease in marketing expenditures. Total Loans: Period end loans in the Consumer Banking business increased by $1.0 billion, or 3%, to $38.2 billion as of December 31, 2009, primarily due to the acquisition of the Chevy Chase mortgage portfolio. Deposits: Period end deposits increased by $12.4 billion, or 20%, to $74.1 as of December 31, 2009, primarily due to the acquisition of Chevy Chase Bank. Charge off and Delinquency Statistics: The improvement in the net charge off rate of 2.74% in 2009, compared with 3.09% in 2008 was primarily driven by more positive credit performance in the auto business resulting from a larger proportion of higher quality loans originated in 2008 and 2009 and improvements in auto auction recovery price. The 30+ day performing delinquency rate also declined to 5.06% as of December 31, 2009, from 6.31% as of December 31, 2008. Commercial Banking Business Our Commercial Banking business generated income of $160 million in 2010, compared with a loss of $213 million in 2009 and income of $254 million in 2008. The primary sources of revenue for our Commercial Banking business are net interest income and non interest income from customer fees. Expenses primarily consist of ongoing operating costs, such as salaries and associated benefits, communications and other technology expenses, supplies and equipment and occupancy costs. Table 9 summarizes the financial results of our Commercial Banking business and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated. 46 Table of Contents Table 9: Commercial Banking Business Results Change Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 vs. (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 2008 2009 2008 Selected income statement data: Net interest income $ 1,292 $ 1,144 $ 962 13 % 19 % Non interest income 181 172 144 5 19 Total revenue 1,473 1,316 1,106 12 19 Provision for loan and lease losses 429 983 234 (56 ) 320 Non interest expense 796 661 481 20 37 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 248 (328 ) 391 176 (184 ) Income tax provision 88 (115 ) 137 177 (184 ) Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 160 $ (213 ) $ 254 175 % (184 )% Selected metrics: Average loans held for investment: Commercial and multifamily real estate $ 13,497 $ 13,858 $ 12,830 (3 )% 8 % Middle market 10,353 10,098 9,172 3 10 Specialty lending 3,732 3,567 3,596 5 (1 ) Total commercial lending 27,582 27,523 25,598 ** 8 Small ticket commercial real estate 1,994 2,491 3,115 (20 ) (20 ) Total commercial banking $ 29,576 $ 30,014 $ 28,713 (1 )% 5 % Average yield on loans held for investment 5.06 % 5.02 % 5.89 % 4 bps (87 )bps Average deposits $ 22,186 $ 17,572 $ 16,554 26 % 6 % Average deposit interest rate 0.69 % 0.81 % 1.77 % (12) bps (96 )bps Core deposit intangible amortization $ 55 $ 43 $ 39 28 % 10 % Net charge off rate(1) 1.32 % 1.45 % 0.29 % (13 )bps 116 bps December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Change Selected period end data: Loans held for investment: Commercial and multifamily real estate $ 13,396 $ 13,843 (3 )% Middle market 10,484 10,062 4 Specialty lending 4,020 3,555 13 Total commercial lending 27,900 27,460 2 Small ticket commercial real estate 1,842 2,153 (14 ) Total commercial banking $ 29,742 $ 29,613 ** Nonperforming loans as a percentage of loans held for investment(2) 1.66 % 2.37 % (71 )bps Nonperforming asset rate(2) 1.80 2.52 (72 ) Allowance for loan and lease losses $ 826 $ 785 5 % Period end deposits 22,630 20,480 10 ** Change is less than one percent. (1) Average loans held for investment used in calculating net charge off rates includes the impact of loans acquired as part of the Chevy Chase Bank acquisition. The net charge off rate, excluding loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank from the denominator, was 1.35% and 1.48% in 2010 and 2009, respectively. (2) Our calculation of nonperforming loan and asset ratios includes the impact of loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank. However, we do not report loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank as nonperforming, as we recorded these loans at estimated fair value when we acquired them. The nonperforming loan ratio, excluding the impact of loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank from the denominator, was 1.69% and 2.43% as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The nonperforming asset rate, excluding loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank from the denominator, was 1.83% and 2.62% as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Key factors affecting the results of our Commercial Banking business for 2010, compared with 2009 included the following: Net Interest Income: Our Commercial Banking business experienced an increase in net interest income of $148 million, or 13%, in 2010. The increase was driven by strong deposit growth, improved deposit spreads resulting from repricing of higher rate deposits to lower rates in response to the overall lower interest rate environment, and higher average loan yields driven by wider spreads on new originations. 47 Table of Contents Non Interest Income: Non interest income increased by $9 million, or 5%, in 2010 to $181 million, largely attributable to growth in fees in the middle market segment, which was partially offset by a loss on the disposition of a legacy portfolio of small ticket commercial real estate loans. Provision for Loan and Lease Losses: The provision for loan and lease losses decreased by $554 million in 2010, to $429 million. The substantial reduction in the provision was attributable to improvements in charge off and nonperforming loan rates throughout the year, which resulted in a reduction in our allowance build. We recorded an allowance build of $41 million in 2010, compared with an allowance build of $484 million in 2009. Non Interest Expense: Non interest expense increased by $135 million, or 20%, in 2010 to $796 million. The increase was attributable to higher loan workout expenses and losses related to REO, combined with increases in core deposit intangible amortization expense, integration costs related to the Chevy Chase Bank acquisition and expenditures related to risk management activities and enhancing our infrastructure. Total Loans: Period end loans in the Commercial Banking business increased by $129 million, or less than 1%, to $29.7 billion as of December 31, 2010. The slight increase was due to modest loan growth, which was partially offset by the disposition of the legacy portfolio of small ticket commercial real estate loans. Deposits:Period end deposits increased by $2.1 billion, or 10%, to $22.6 billion as of December 31, 2010, driven by our increased effort to build and expand commercial relationships. Charge off and Nonperforming Loan Statistics: Credit metrics in our Commercial Banking business remain elevated, but have significantly improved since the second half of 2009 as a result of the improved economic environment and our risk management activities. The net charge off rate decreased to 1.32% in 2010, from 1.45% in 2009. The nonperforming loan rate declined to 1.66% as of December 31, 2010, from 2.37% as of December 31, 2009. Key factors affecting the results of our Commercial Banking business for 2009, compared with 2008 included the following: Net Interest Income: Net interest income increased by $182 million, or 19%, in 2009, largely driven by reduced interest expense on deposits that more than offset the impact of reduced loan margins. Non Interest Income: Non interest income increased by $28 million, or 19%, to $172 million, primarily driven by the acquisition of Chevy Chase Bank, and growth in treasury management, public finance and investment banking fees. Provision for Loan and Lease Losses: The provision for loan and lease losses increased by $749 million to $983 million in 2009. The increase was driven by higher charge offs as well as higher loan loss allowance build as the credit environment deteriorated in 2009. Non Interest Expense: Non interest expense increased by $180 million, or 37%, in 2009 to $661 million. The increase in expense was largely driven by increases in associates and related salaries and benefits as part of our efforts to enhance our infrastructure and restructure our operating model. In addition, we incurred increased costs related to loan workout and loss mitigation activities due to an increase in problem loans resulting from the severe economic downturn. Total Loans: Period end loans in the Commercial Banking business increased by $235 million, or 1%, to $29.6 billion as of December 31, 2009. The increase was primarily due to the acquisition of the Chevy Chase Bank commercial loan portfolio. Deposits: Period end deposits increased by $4.0 billion, or 24%, to $20.5 billion as of December 31, 2009. The increase was mainly due to the acquisition of Chevy Chase Bank and our strategy to leverage our bank outlets to attract lower cost funding sources. Charge off and Nonperforming Loan Statistics: Credit metrics deteriorated throughout much of 2009 due to the severe economic downturn, which resulted in rising unemployment and significant declines in property values. The net charge off rate rose to 1.45% in 2009, from 0.29% in 2008, and the nonperforming loan rate increased to 2.37% as of December 31, 2009, from 1.66% as of December 31, 2008. 48 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS AND CREDIT PERFORMANCE Total assets of $197.5 billion as of December 31, 2010, after taking into consideration the $41.9 billion of assets added to our balance sheet on January 1, 2010 as a result of the adoption of the new consolidation accounting standards, decreased by $27.9 billion, or 8%, during 2010. Total liabilities of $171.0 billion as of December 31, 2010, after taking into consideration the $44.3 billion of securitization debt added to our balance sheet on January 1, 2010 as a result of the adoption of the new consolidation standards, decreased by $16.4 billion, or 12%, during 2010. Our stockholders equity, after taking into account the cumulative effect after tax charge of $2.9 billion to retained earnings on January 1, 2010 from the adoption of the new consolidation accounting standards, increased by $2.8 billion during 2010, to $26.5 b illion as of December 31, 2010. The increase in stockholders equity was primarily attributable to our net income of $2.7 billion in 2010. Following is a discussion of material changes in the major components of our assets and liabilities during 2010. Investment Securities Our investment securities portfolio, which had a fair value of $41.5 billion and $38.9 billion, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, consists of the following: U.S. Treasury and U.S. agency debt obligations; agency and non agency mortgage backed securities; other asset backed securities collateralized primarily by credit card loans, auto loans, student loans, auto dealer floor plan inventory loans, equipment loans and home equity lines of credit; municipal securities; and limited Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) equity securities. Our investment securities portfolio continues to be heavily concentrated in securities that generally have lower credit risk and high credit ratings, such as securities issued and guaranteed by the U.S. Treasury and government sponsored enterprises or agencies. Our investments in U.S. Treasury and agency securities, based on fair value, represented approximately 70% of our total investment securities portfolio as of December 31, 2010, compared with 75% as of December 31, 2009. All of our investment securities were classified as available for sale as of December 31, 2010 and reported in our consolidated balance sheet at fair value. Table 10 presents the amortized cost and fair value for the major categories of our investment securities as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Table 10: Investment Securities December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Amortized Fair (Dollars in millions) Cost Value Cost Value Cost Value U.S. Treasury debt obligations $ 373 $ 386 $ 379 $ 392 $ 201 $ 223 U.S. Agency debt obligations(1) 301 314 455 477 1,348 1,387 Collateralized mortgage obligations (CMO): Agency(2) 12,303 12,566 8,174 8,300 9,086 9,176 Non agency 1,091 1,019 1,608 1,338 2,530 1,926 Total CMOs 13,394 13,585 9,782 9,638 11,616 11,102 Mortgage backed securities (MBS): Agency(2) 15,721 15,983 19,429 19,858 12,763 12,890 Non agency 735 681 1,011 826 1,254 823 Total MBS 16,456 16,664 20,440 20,684 14,017 13,713 Asset backed securities(3) 9,901 9,966 7,043 7,192 4,433 4,096 Other securities(4) 563 622 440 447 496 482 Total securities available for sale $ 40,988 $ 41,537 $ 38,539 $ 38,830 $ 32,111 $ 31,003 Securities held to maturity: Total securities held to maturity $ $ $ 80 (5) $ 80 (5) $ $ (1) Consists of debt securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with amortized costs of $200 million and $454 million, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and fair values of $213 million and $476 million, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (2) Consists of mortgage backed securities issued by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae with amortized costs of $17.1 billion, $8.1 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, and fair values of $17.3 billion, $8.3 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2010. The book value of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae investments exceeded 10% of our stockholders equity as of December 31, 2010. 49 Table of Contents (3) Consists of securities collateralized by credit card loans, auto loans, student loans, auto dealer floor plan inventory loans, equipment loans and home equity lines of credit. The distribution among these asset types was approximately 77.8% credit card loans, 6.7% auto loans, 7.2% student loans, 5.6% auto dealer floor plan inventory loans, 2.5% equipment loans and 0.2% home equity lines of credit as of December 31, 2010. In comparison, the distribution was approximately 76.3% credit card loans, 14.0% auto loans, 6.9% student loans, 1.7% auto dealer floor plan inventory loans, 0.8% equipment loans and 0.3% home equity lines of credit as of December 31, 2009. Approximately 90% of the securities in our asset backed security portfolio were rated AAA or its equivalent as of December 31, 2010, compared with 84% as of December 31, 2009. (4) Consists of municipal securities and equity investments, primarily related to CRA activities. (5) Consists of negative amortization mortgage backed securities. Unrealized gains and losses on our available for sale securities are recorded net of tax as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI). We had gross unrealized gains of $830 million and gross unrealized losses of $281 million on available for sale securities as of December 31, 2010, compared with gross unrealized gains of $840 million and gross unrealized losses of $549 million as of December 31, 2009. The decrease in gross unrealized losses in 2010 was primarily driven by a tightening of credit spreads, attributable to the improvement in credit performance and increased liquidity, and lower interest rates. Of the $281 million gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2010, $137 million related to securities that had been in a loss position for more than 12 months. We evaluate available for sale securities in an unrealized loss position as of the end of each quarter for other than temporary impairment based on a number of criteria, including the extent and duration of the decline in value, the severity and duration of the impairment, recent events specific to the issuer and or industry to which the issuer belongs, the payment structure of the security, external credit ratings and the failure of the issuer to make scheduled interest or principal payments, the value of underlying collateral, our intent and ability to hold the security and current market conditions. Other than temporary impairment is recognized in earnings if one of the following conditions exists: (1) a decision to sell the security has been made; (2) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before the impairment is recovered; or (3) the amortized cost basis is not expected to be recovered. If, however, we have not made a decision to sell the security and we do not expect that we will be required to sell prior to recovery of the amortized cost basis, only the credit component of other than temporary impairment is recognized in earnings. The noncredit component is recorded in AOCI. The credit component is the difference between the securitys amortized cost basis and the present value of its expected future cash flows discounted based on the original yield, while the noncredit component is the re maining difference between the securitys fair value and amortized cost. We recognized net OTTI on debt securities of $65 million, $32 million and $11 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, due in part to deterioration in the credit performance of certain securities resulting from the continued weaknesses in the housing market, high unemployment, and our decision to sell certain other securities before recovery of the impairment amount. We provide additional information on our available for sale securities in Note 4Investment Securities. Total Loans Total loans that we manage consist of held for investment loans recorded on our balance sheet and loans held in our securitization trusts. Prior to our January 1, 2010 adoption of the new consolidation standards, a portion of our managed loans were accounted for as off balance sheet. Loans underlying our securitization trusts are now reported on our consolidated balance sheets in restricted loans for securitization investors. Table 11 presents the composition of our total loan portfolio, by business segments, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. 50 Table of Contents Table 11: Loan Portfolio Composition December 31, 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Reported On Balance Sheet % of Total Loans Reported On Balance Sheet Off Balance Sheet Total Managed % of Total Loans Credit Card business: Credit card loans: Domestic credit card loans $ 50,170 39.8 % $ 13,374 $ 39,827 $ 53,201 38.9 % International credit card loans 7,513 6.0 2,229 5,951 8,180 6.0 Total credit card loans 57,683 45.8 15,603 45,778 61,381 44.9 Installment loans: Domestic installment loans 3,679 2.9 6,693 406 7,099 5.2 International installment loans 9 44 44 Total installment loans 3,688 2.9 6,737 406 7,143 5.2 Total credit card 61,371 48.7 22,340 46,184 68,524 50.1 Consumer Banking business: Automobile 17,867 14.2 18,186 18,186 13.3 Home loans 12,103 9.6 14,893 14,893 10.9 Other retail 4,413 3.5 5,135 5,135 3.7 Total consumer banking 34,383 27.3 38,214 38,214 27.9 Commercial Banking business: Commercial and multifamily real estate(1) 13,396 10.6 13,843 13,843 10.1 Middle market 10,484 8.3 10,062 10,062 7.4 Specialty lending 4,020 3.2 3,555 3,555 2.6 Total commercial lending 27,900 22.1 27,460 27,460 20.1 Small ticket commercial real estate 1,842 1.5 2,153 2,153 1.6 Total commercial banking 29,742 23.6 29,613 29,613 21.7 Other: Other loans 451 0.4 452 452 0.3 Total $ 125,947 100.0 % $ 90,619 $ 46,184 $ 136,803 100.0 % (1) Includes construction and land development loans totaling $2.4 billion and $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our total reported loans declined by $10.9 billion, or 8.0%, during the year ended December 31, 2010 to $125.9 billion as of December 31, 2010, from managed loans of $136.8 billion as of December 31, 2009. The decline was primarily due to the run off of loans in businesses that we either exited or repositioned early in the economic recession, elevated charge offs and weak consumer demand. The run offs are related to installment loans included in our Credit Card business, home loans in our Consumer Banking business and small ticket commercial real estate loans in our Commercial Banking business. Additionally, the decline was attributable to the sale of a portion of the small ticket commercial real estate loan portfolio in 2010. The decline was partially offset by the acquisition of the $807 million legacy Sony Card port folio in the third quarter of 2010. 51 Table of Contents Table 12 presents a schedule of our loan maturities as of December 31, 2010. Table 12: Reported Loan Maturity Schedule December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) Amounts Due One Year or Less Amounts Due After One Year Through Five Years Amounts Due After Five Years Total Fixed rate: Credit card(1) $ 4,146 $ 12,644 $ 164 $ 16,954 Consumer 935 16,191 10,317 27,443 Commercial 2,945 8,526 4,315 15,786 Other 27 10 105 142 Total fixed rate loans 8,053 37,371 14,901 60,325 Variable rate: Credit card(1) 44,417 44,417 Consumer 6,408 493 39 6,940 Commercial 12,483 1,407 66 13,956 Other 253 46 10 309 Total variable rate loans $ 63,561 $ 1,946 $ 115 $ 65,622 Total $ 71,614 $ 39,317 $ 15,016 $ 125,947 (1) Due to the revolving nature of credit card loans, we report all variable rate credit card loans as due in one year or less. We report fixed rate credit card loans with introductory rates that expire after a certain period of time as due in one year or less. We assume that our remaining fixed rate credit card loans will mature within one to three years We market our credit card products on a national basis throughout the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. The Credit Card segment accounted for $61.4 billion, or 49% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010, compared with 50% as of December 31, 2009. Because of the diversity of our credit card products and national marketing approach, no single geographic concentration exists within the credit card portfolio. Table 13 displays the geographic concentration of our credit card loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 13: Credit Card Concentrations (Managed) December 31, 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Loans % of Total Loans % of Total Domestic card: California $ 6,242 10.2 % $ 7,192 10.5 % Texas 3,633 5.9 4,097 6.0 New York 3,599 5.8 3,917 5.7 Florida 3,298 5.4 3,759 5.5 Illinois 2,403 3.9 2,653 3.9 Pennsylvania 2,389 3.9 2,641 3.8 Ohio 2,109 3.4 2,384 3.5 New Jersey 1,971 3.2 2,146 3.1 Michigan 1,716 2.8 1,989 2.9 Other 26,489 43.2 29,522 43.1 Total domestic card $ 53,849 87.7 % $ 60,300 88.0 % International card: United Kingdom $ 4,102 6.7 % $ 4,717 6.9 % Canada 3,420 5.6 3,507 5.1 Total international card $ 7,522 12.3 % $ 8,224 12.0 % Total credit card $ 61,371 100.0 % $ 68,524 100.0 % Consumer Banking represented $34.4 billion, or 27% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010, down from 28% as of Decemberr 31, 2009. The automobile portfolio was originated primarily on a national basis, with additional originations through the retail branch network. It is well diversified with some concentration in Texas, California and Louisiana. The home loan portfolio is concentrated in New York, California and Louisiana which reflects the characteristics of the legacy Hibernia, North Fork and Chevy Chase Bank portfolios that comprise the majority of our home loans. Other retail lending includes our branch and banker based small business loans as well as other consumer lending products originated through the branch network. These portfolios are concentrated in our retail branch geographies. See Ta ble 14Consumer Banking Concentrations (Managed) for further details. 52 Table of Contents Table 14: Consumer Banking Concentrations (Managed) December 31, 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Loans % of Total Loans % of Total Auto: Texas $ 3,161 9.2 % $ 2,901 7.6 % California 1,412 4.1 1,675 4.4 Louisiana 1,334 3.9 1,393 3.6 Florida 954 2.8 1,073 2.8 Georgia 908 2.6 841 2.2 New York 894 2.6 919 2.4 Illinois 843 2.5 789 2.1 Other 8,361 24.3 8,595 22.5 Total auto $ 17,867 52.0 % $ 18,186 47.6 % Home loan: New York $ 2,381 6.9 % $ 2,907 7.6 % California 2,315 6.7 2,814 7.4 Louisiana 1,836 5.4 2,226 5.8 Maryland 938 2.7 1,033 2.7 Virginia 809 2.4 989 2.6 New Jersey 698 2.0 859 2.3 Other 3,126 9.1 4,065 10.6 Total home loan $ 12,103 35.2 % $ 14,893 39.0 % Retail banking: Louisiana $ 1,754 5.1 % $ 2,065 5.4 % Texas 1,125 3.3 1,366 3.6 New York 909 2.6 981 2.6 New Jersey 357 1.0 382 1.0 Maryland 89 0.3 135 0.3 Virginia 52 0.2 151 0.4 Other 127 0.3 55 0.1 Total retail banking $ 4,413 12.8 % $ 5,135 13.4 % Total consumer banking $ 34,383 100.0 % $ 38,214 100.0 % Commercial Banking represented $29.7 billion, or 24%, of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010, up from 22% as of December 31, 2009. We operate our Commercial Banking business primarily in the geographies in which we maintain retail bank branches. As a result, most of the portfolio is located in New York, Louisiana and Texas, our largest retail banking markets. Our small ticket commercial real estate portfolio was originated on a national basis through a broker network and is in run off mode. See Table 15Commercial Banking Concentrations for further details. 53 Table of Contents Table 15: Commercial Banking Concentrations (Managed) December 31, 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Loans % of Total Loans % of Total Commercial lending: New York $ 11,997 40.3 % $ 12,566 42.5 % Texas 2,990 10.1 2,785 9.4 Louisiana 2,968 10.0 3,592 12.1 New Jersey 2,149 7.2 2,253 7.6 Massachusetts 800 2.7 619 2.1 Maryland 646 2.2 509 1.7 California 598 2.0 571 1.9 Other 5,752 19.3 4,565 15.4 Total commercial lending $ 27,900 93.8 % $ 27,460 92.7 % Small ticket commercial real estate: New York $ 751 2.5 % $ 864 2.9 % California 402 1.4 468 1.6 Massachusetts 146 0.5 165 0.6 New Jersey 102 0.3 123 0.4 Florida 76 0.3 94 0.3 Other 365 1.2 439 1.5 Total small ticket commercial real estate $ 1,842 6.2 % $ 2,153 7.3 % Total commercial banking $ 29,742 100.0 % $ 29,613 100.0 % Credit Performance We closely monitor economic conditions and loan performance trends to manage and evaluate our exposure to credit risk. Trends in delinquency ratios are an indicator, among other considerations, of credit risk within our loan portfolios. The level of nonperforming assets represents another indicator of the potential for future credit losses. Accordingly, key metrics we track and use in evaluating the credit quality of our loan portfolio include delinquency and nonperforming asset rates, as well as charge off rates and our internal risk ratings of larger balance, commercial loans. High unemployment, the decline in home prices and other weak economic conditions resulting from the recent recession adversely affected the ability of consumers and businesses to meet the ir debt obligations and resulting in deterioration across all of our loan portfolios in 2009. As economic conditions began to improve in 2010, credit performance across our loan categories began to improve and stabilize. We present information in the section below on the credit performance of our loan portfolio, including the key metrics we use in tracking changes in the credit quality of our loan portfolio. See Note 5Loans for additional details. Delinquency Rates We consider the entire balance of an account to be delinquent if the minimum required payment is not received by the first statement cycle date equal to or following the due date specified on the customers billing statement. Table 16 below compares 30+ day performing loan delinquency rates, by loan category, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. This table excludes delinquent loans classified as nonperforming. The delinquency rates presented are calculated, by loan category, based on our total loan portfolio. Our total loan portfolio consists of loans recorded on our balance sheet, which includes loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank, and loans held in our securitization trusts, which we previously referred to as our managed loan portfolio. Loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank were recorded at fair value at acquisition. Because the fair value of these loans included an estimate of credit losses expected to be realized over the remaining lives of the loans, we do not report these loans as delinquent unless they do not perform in accordance with our expectations as of the purchase date. 54 Table of Contents Table 16: 30+ Day Performing Delinquencies December 31, 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Amount Rate Amount Rate Credit Card business: Domestic credit card and installment $ 2,200 4.09 % $ 3,487 5.78 % International credit card and installment 432 5.75 539 6.55 Total credit card 2,632 4.29 4,026 5.88 Consumer Banking business: Automobile 1,355 7.58 1,681 9.24 Home loans(1) 77 0.64 188 1.26 Retail banking(1) 41 0.93 63 1.23 Total consumer banking(1) 1,473 4.28 1,932 5.06 Commercial Banking business: Commercial and multifamily real estate(1) 147 1.10 84 0.61 Middle market(1) 28 0.27 46 0.46 Specialty lending 33 0.81 60 1.69 Small ticket commercial real estate 95 5.17 121 5.59 Total commercial banking(1) 303 1.02 311 1.05 Other: Other loans 22 4.75 53 11.60 Total $ 4,430 3.52 % $ 6,322 4.62 % (1) The 30+ day performing delinquency rate, excluding the impact of loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank from the denominator, for home loans, retail banking, total consumer banking, commercial and multifamily real estate, middle market, and total commercial banking was 1.06%, 0.97%, 5.35%, 1.12%, 0.28% and 1.04%, respectively, as of December 31, 2010, compared with 2.18%, 1.30%, 6.56%, 0.63%, 0.47% and 1.08%, respectively, as of December 31, 2009. Delinquency rates for all loan categories, except commercial and multifamily real estate, showed signs of improvement during 2010, reflecting positive trends in credit conditions. In addition, the diminishing initial adverse impact from the pricing changes we made during 2009 contributed to a reduction in the delinquency rate for domestic credit cards. Table 17 presents an aging of 30+ day performing delinquent loans included in the above table. All loans included are on accrual status. Table 17: Aging of 30+ Day Performing Delinquent Loans December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (Dollars in millions) Amount % of Total Loans Amount % of Total Loans Amount % of Total Loans Total loan portfolio $ 125,947 100.00 % $ 136,803 100.00 % $ 146,937 100.00 % Delinquency status: 30 59 days $ 1,968 1.56 % $ 2,623 1.92 % $ 2,987 2.03 % 60 89 days 1,064 0.84 1,576 1.15 1,582 1.08 90 119 days 559 0.44 895 0.65 817 0.60 120 149 days 446 0.35 660 0.48 569 0.39 150 + days 393 0.31 568 0.42 476 0.32 Total $ 4,430 3.52 % $ 6,322 4.62 % $ 6,431 4.38 % Geographic region: Domestic $ 3,998 3.38 % $ 5,783 4.23 % $ 5,915 4.03 % International 432 5.75 539 6.55 516 5.92 Total $ 4,430 3.52 % $ 6,322 4.62 % $ 6,431 4.38 % 90+ day performing delinquent loans(1) $ 1,398 1.11 % $ 2,123 1.55 % $ 1,862 1.27 % (1) Includes credit card loans that continue to accrue finance charges and fees until charged off at 180 days. The amounts reported for credit card loans are net of billed finance charges and fees that we do not expect to collect. In accordance with our finance charge and fee revenue recognition policy, amounts billed but not included in revenue totaled $950 million, $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Credit card loans 90 days or greater past due which continue to accrue interest totaled $1.4 billion, $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 55 Table of Contents Table 18 summarizes loans that were 90 days or more past due as to interest or principal and still accruing interest as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. These loans consist primarily of credit card accounts between 90 days and 179 days past due. As permitted by regulatory guidance issued by The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC), we continue to accrue interest on credit card loans through the date of charge off, typically in the period the account becomes 180 days past due. While credit card loans remain on accrual status until the loan is charged off, we establish a reserve for finance charges and fees billed but not expected to be collected and exclude this amount from revenue. Table 18: 90+ Days Delinquent Loans Accruing Interest December 31, 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Amount % of Total Loans Amount % of Total Loans Loan category: Credit card $ 1,379 1.10 % $ 2,054 1.50 % Consumer 5 58 0.04 Commercial 14 0.01 11 0.01 Total $ 1,398 1.11 % $ 2,123 1.55 % Geographic region: Domestic $ 1,195 0.95 % $ 1,838 1.34 % International 203 0.16 285 0.21 Total $ 1,398 1.11 % $ 2,123 1.55 % Nonperforming Assets Nonperforming assets consist of nonperforming loans and foreclosed property and repossessed assets. Nonperforming loans generally include loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and certain restructured loans whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. We do not report loans accounted for under the fair value option and loans held for sale as nonperforming. Our policies for classifying loans as nonperforming, by loan category, are as follows: Credit card loans: As permitted by regulatory guidance issued by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC), our policy is generally to exempt credit card loans from being classified as nonperforming as these loans are generally charged off in the period the account becomes 180 days past due. Consistent with industry conventions, we generally continue to accrue interest and fees on delinquent credit card loans until the loans are charged off. When we do not expect full payment of billed finance charges and fees, we reduce the balance of the credit card account by the estimated uncollectible portion of any billed finance charges and fees and exclude this amount from revenue. Consumer loans: We classify other non credit card consumer loans as nonperforming at the earlier of the date when we determine that the collectability of interest or principal on the loan is not reasonably assured or when the loan is 90 days past due for automobile and mortgage loans, 180 days past due for unsecured small business revolving lines of credit and 120 days past due for all other non credit card consumer loans, including installment loans. Commercial loans: We classify commercial loans as nonperforming at the earlier of the date we determine that the collectability of interest or principal on the loan is not reasonably assured or the loan is 90 days past due. Modified loans and troubled debt restructurings: Modified loans, including TDRs, that are current at the time of the restructuring remain on accrual status if there is demonstrated performance prior to the restructuring and continued performance under the modified terms is expected. Otherwise, the modified loan is classified as nonperforming and placed on nonaccrual status until the borrower demonstrates a sustained period of performance over several payment cycles, generally six months of consecutive payments, under the modified terms of the loan. Purchased credit impaired loans: PCI loans primarily include loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank, which we recorded at fair value at acquisition. Because the initial fair value of these loans included an estimate of credit losses expected to be realized over the remaining lives of the loans, our subsequent accounting for PCI loans differs from the accounting for non PCI loans. We therefore separately track and report PCI loans and exclude these loans from our delinquency and nonperforming loan statistics. 56 Table of Contents Table 19 presents comparative information on nonperforming loans, by loan category, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the ratio of nonperforming loans to our total loans. Nonperforming loans held for sale are excluded from nonperforming loans, as they are recorded at lower of cost or fair value. Table 19: Nonperforming Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets(1)(2) December 31, 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Amount % of Total HFI Loans Amount % of Total HFI Loans Nonperforming loans held for investment: Consumer Banking business: Automobile $ 99 0.55 % $ 143 0.79 % Home loan 486 4.01 323 2.17 Other retail 91 2.07 87 1.69 Total consumer banking 676 1.97 553 1.45 Commercial Banking business: Commercial and multifamily real estate 276 2.06 429 3.10 Middle market 133 1.27 104 1.03 Specialty lending 48 1.20 74 2.08 Total commercial lending 457 1.64 607 2.21 Small ticket commercial real estate 38 2.04 95 4.41 Total commercial banking 495 1.66 702 2.37 Other: Other loans 54 12.12 34 7.52 Total nonperforming loans held for investment(3) $ 1,225 0.97 % $ 1,289 0.94 % Other nonperforming assets: Foreclosed property(4) $ 306 0.24 % $ 234 0.17 % Repossessed assets 20 0.02 24 0.02 Total other nonperforming assets 326 0.26 258 0.19 Total nonperforming assets $ 1,551 1.23 % $ 1,547 1.13 % Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Interest income related to nonperforming loans: Interest income forgone (5) $ 47 $ 44 $ 25 Interest income recognized for the period (6) 35 46 39 (1) The ratio of nonperforming loans as a percentage of total loans held for investment is calculated based on the nonperforming loans in each loan category divided by the total outstanding unpaid principal balance of loans held for investment in each loan category. The denominator used in calculating the nonperforming asset ratios consists of total loans held for investment and other nonperforming assets. (2) Our calculation of nonperforming loan and asset ratios includes the impact of loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank. However, we do not report loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank as nonperforming unless they do not perform in accordance with our expectations as of the purchase date, as we recorded these loans at estimated fair value when we acquired them. The nonperforming loan ratios, excluding the impact of loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank, for commercial and multifamily real estate, middle market, total commercial banking, home loans, retail banking, total consumer banking, and total nonperforming loans held for investment were 2.11%, 1.30%, 1.69%, 6.67%, 2.16%, 2.30% and 1.02%, respectively, as of December 31, 2010, compared with 3.18%, 1.07%, 2.43%, 3.75%, 1.78%, 1.75%, and 0.99%, respectively, as of December 31, 2009. The nonperforming asset ratio, excluding loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank, was 1.29% and 1.19% as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (3) Nonperforming loans as a percentage of loans held for investment, excluding credit card loans from the denominator, was 1.90% and 1.89% as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (4) Includes $201 million and $154 million of foreclosed properties related to loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (5) Forgone interest income represents the amount of interest income that would have been recorded during the year for nonperforming loans as of the end of the year had the loans performed according to their contractual terms. (6) Represents interest income recognized during the year for on balance sheet loans classified as nonperforming as of the end of each year. 57 Table of Contents The increase in our nonperforming loan ratio to 0.97% as of December 31, 2010, from 0.94% as of December 31, 2009 was primarily attributable to the weak economy, decline in property values and high unemployment, which continued to have an adverse impact on our commercial and home loan portfolios. Total nonperforming loans included TDRs totaling $96 million and $20 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net Charge Offs Net charge offs consist of the unpaid principal balance of loans held for investment that we determine are uncollectible, net of recovered amounts. We exclude accrued and unpaid finance charges and fees and fraud losses from charge offs. Charge offs are recorded as a reduction to the allowance for loan and lease losses and subsequent recoveries of previously charged off amounts are credited to the allowance for loan and lease losses. Costs incurred to recover charged off loans are recorded as collection expense and included in our consolidated statements of income as a component of other non interest expense. Our charge off time frame for loans, which varies based on the loan type, is presented below. Credit card loans: We generally charge off credit card loans when the account is 180 days past due from the statement cycle date. Credit card loans in bankruptcy are charged off within 30 days of receipt of a complete bankruptcy notification from the bankruptcy court, except for U.K. credit card loans, which are charged off within 60 days. Credit card loans of deceased account holders are charged off within 60 days of receipt of notification. Consumer loans: We generally charge off consumer loans at the earlier of the date when the account is a specified number of days past due or upon repossession of the underlying collateral. Our charge off time frame is 180 days for mortgage loans and unsecured small business lines of credit and 120 days for auto and other non credit card consumer loans. We calculate the charge off amount for mortgage loans based on the difference between our recorded investment in the loan and the fair value of the underlying property and estimated selling costs as of the date of the charge off. We update our home value estimates on a regular basis and recognize additional charge offs for declines in home values below our initial fair value and selling cost estimate at the date mortgage loans are charged off. Consumer loans i n bankruptcy, except for auto and mortgage loans, generally are charged off within 40 days of receipt of notification from the bankruptcy court. Auto and mortgage loans in bankruptcy are charged off in the period that the loan is both 60 days or more past due and 60 days or more past the bankruptcy notification date or in the period the loan becomes 120 days past due for auto loans and 180 days past due for mortgage loans regardless of the bankruptcy notification date. Consumer loans of deceased account holders are charged off within 60 days of receipt of notification. Commercial loans: We charge off commercial loans in the period we determine that the unpaid principal loan amounts are uncollectible. Purchased credit impaired loans: We do not record charge offs on purchased credit impaired loans that are performing in accordance with or better than our expectations as of the date of acquisition, as the fair values of these loans already reflect a credit component. We record charge offs on purchased credit impaired loans only if actual losses exceed estimated losses incorporated into the fair value recorded at acquisition. Table 20 presents our net charge off amounts and rates, by business segment, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. We provide additional information on the amount of charge offs by loan category below in Table 22. Table 20: Net Charge Offs(1) Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Managed; Amount Rate(2) Amount Rate(2) Amount Rate(2) Credit card $ 5,505 8.79 % $ 6,688 9.15 % $ 4,956 6.26 % Consumer banking(3)(4) 655 1.82 1,094 2.74 1,218 3.09 Commercial banking(3)(4) 390 1.32 434 1.45 83 0.29 Other 107 21.18 205 (5) 37.11 168 30.87 Total company(4) $ 6,657 5.18 % $ 8,421 5.87 % $ 6,425 4.35 % Average loans held for investment(6) $ 128,622 $ 143,514 $ 147,812 Reported: Total company charge offs 6,651 5.18 % 4,568 4.58 % 3,478 3.51 % Average loans heid for investments(6) 128,526 99,787 98,971 (1) Net charge offs reflect charge offs, net of recoveries, related to our total loan portfolio, which we previously referred to as our managed loan portfolio. The total loan portfolio includes loans recorded on our balance sheet and loans held in our securitization trusts. (2) Calculated for each loan category by dividing annualized net charge offs for the period divided by average loans held for investment during the period. 58 Table of Contents (3) Excludes losses on the purchased credit impaired loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank unless they do not perform in accordance with our expectations as of the purchase date. (4) The average loans held for investment used in calculating net charge off rates includes the impact of loans acquired as part of the Chevy Chase Bank acquisition. Our total net charge off rate, excluding the impact of acquired Chevy Chase Bank loans, was 5.44% and 6.09% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (5) During the first quarter of 2009, loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank were included in the Other category. (6) The average balances of the acquired Chevy Chase Bank loan portfolio, which are included in the total average loans held for investment used in calculating the net charge off rates, were $6.3 billion and $6.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The overall decrease in net charge offs in 2010 from 2009 reflects the ongoing improvement in credit performance since the end of 2009, as well as declining loan balances. The overall increase in net charge offs in 2009 from 2008 was predominately due to the continued economic downturn, which persisted in 2009. Loan Modifications and Restructurings As part of our customer retention efforts, we may modify loans for certain borrowers who have demonstrated performance under the previous terms. As part of our loss mitigation efforts, we may make loan modifications to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty that are intended to minimize our economic loss and avoid the need for foreclosure or repossession of collateral. We may provide short term (three to twelve months) or long term (greater than twelve months) modifications to improve the long term collectability of the loan. Our most common types of modifications include a reduction in the borrowers initial monthly or quarterly principal and interest payment through an extension of the loan term, a reduction in the interest rate, or a combination of both. These modifications m ay result in our receiving the full amount due, or certain installments due, under the loan over a period of time that is longer than the period of time originally provided for under the terms of the loan. In some cases, we may curtail the amount of principal owed by the borrower. Loan modifications in which an economic concession has been granted to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty are accounted for and reported as troubled debt restructurings (TDRs). Table 21 presents the unpaid principal balance as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 of loan modifications made as part of our loss mitigation efforts, all of which are considered to be TDRs. Table 21 excludes acquired loans from Chevy Chase Bank that were restructured prior to acquisition, which we track and report separately below under "Purchased Credit Impaired Loans." Table 21: Loan Modifications and Restructurings(1) December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Modified and restructured loans: Credit card(2) $ 912 $ 678 Home loans 57 10 Commercial retail and multifamily real estate 153 41 Other retail 23 4 Total $ 1,145 $ 733 Status of modified and restructured loans: Performing $ 1,049 $ 713 Nonperforming 96 20 Total $ 1,145 $ 733 (1) Reflects modifications and restructuring of loans in our total loan portfolio, which we previously referred to as our managed loan portfolio. The total loan portfolio includes loans recorded on our balance sheet and loans held in our securitization trusts. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. (2) Amount reported reflects the total outstanding customer balance. The outstanding balance of loan modifications made to assist borrowers experiencing financial difficulties increased to $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2010, from $733 million as December 31, 2009. Of these modifications, approximately $96 million, or 8%, were classified as nonperforming as of December 31, 2010, compared with $20 million, or 3%, as of December 31, 2009. Credit card loan modifications have accounted for the substantial majority of our loan modifications, representing $912 million, or 80%, of the outstanding balance of total modified loans as of December 31, 2010, and $678 million, or 92%, of the outstanding balance of total modified loans as of December 31, 2009. The vast majority of our credit card loan modifications involve a reduction in the interest rate on the account and placing the customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months. In all cases, we cancel the customers available line of credit on the credit card. If the cardholder does not comply with the modified payment terms, then the credit card loan agreement will revert back to its original payment terms, with the amount of any loan outstanding reflected in the appropriate delinquency bucket. The loan amount may then be charged off in accordance with our standard charge off policy. 59 Table of Contents We typically measure the re performance rate of modified credit card loans over a 5 year period. Five years after starting a credit card modification, approximately 84% of the balances of modified loans are paid off in full and approximately 16% are charged off. Based on our experience to date, we believe that credit losses are lower for credit card loans that have been modified than those of similar accounts that were not modified. We therefore plan to ramp up our short term credit card loan modification programs and continue our long term programs. Mortgage loan modifications represented $57 million, or 5%, of the outstanding balance of total modified loans as of December 31, 2010, compared with $10 million, or 1%, of the outstanding balance of total modified loans as of December 31, 2009. Approximately 76% of our modified mortgage loans include reduction in the contractual interest rate, approximately 17% include a term extension and approximately 5% include a principal reduction. The majority of our modified mortgage loans involve a combination of an interest rate reduction, term extension or principal reduction. Because many of the mortgage loan modification programs have been recently launched and we have had a limited number of modifications under these programs, we do not have sufficient history to full y assess the long term performance of modified mortgage loans. Of the modified mortgage loans outstanding as of December 31, 2010, approximately 27% were 90 days or more delinquent. Commercial loan modifications represented $153 million, or 13%, of the outstanding balance of total modified loans as of December 31, 2010, compared with $41 million, or 6%, of the outstanding balance of total modified loans as of December 31, 2009. The vast majority of modified commercial loans include a reduction in interest rate or a term extension. Because we have had only a limited number of commercial loan modifications and the structure of each loan varies, the ultimate success of our commercial loan modifications is uncertain. Of the modified commercial loans outstanding as of December 31, 2010, approximately 22% were 90 days or more delinquent. Impaired Loans A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due from the borrower in accordance with the original contractual terms of the loan. Loans defined as individually impaired, based on applicable accounting guidance, include larger balance commercial nonperforming loans and TDR loans. We do not report nonperforming consumer loans that have not been modified in a TDR as individually impaired, as we collectively evaluate these smaller balance homogenous loans for impairment in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. Held for sale loans are also not reported as impaired, as these loans are rec orded at lower of cost or fair value. Impaired loans also exclude loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank because these loans were recorded at fair value upon acquisition and loans held for sale because these loans are recorded at lower of cost or fair value. Impaired loans, including TDRs, totaled $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2010, compared with $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2009. TDRs accounted for $1.1 billion and $733 million of impaired loans as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We provide additional information on our impaired loans, including the allowance established for these loans, in Note 5Loans and Note 6Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses. Purchased Credit Impaired Loans Purchased credit impaired loans decreased to $4.2 billion as of December 31, 2010, from $5.3 billion as of December 31, 2009. Our portfolio of purchased credit impaired loans consists of loans acquired in the Chevy Chase Bank transaction, which were recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition. The fair value of these loans included an estimate of credit losses expected to be realized over the remaining lives of the loans. Therefore, no allowance for loan and lease losses was recorded for these loans as of the acquisition date. However, we regularly update the amount of expected principal and interest to be collected from these loans and evaluate the results on an aggregated pool basis for loans with common risk characteristics. If we determine that it is probable that the amount of expected cash flows for any pool is less than our recorded investment, we would recognize impairment through our provision for loan and lease losses. During 2010, we recorded impairment of $33 million related to certain loan pools. The credit performance of the remaining pools has generally been in line with or, in some instances, better than we originally expected at the acquisition date. As a result, we reclassified $311 million from the nonaccretable difference to accretable yield during 2010. This increase in accretable yield will be recognized in interest income over the remaining life of these loans. We provide additional information on the loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank in Note 5Loans. 60 Table of Contents Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses Our allowance for loan and lease losses represents managements best estimate of incurred loan and lease credit losses inherent in our held for investment portfolio as of each balance sheet date. We do not maintain an allowance for held for sale loans or purchased credit impaired loans that are performing in accordance with or better than our expectations as of the date of acquisition, as the fair values of these loans already reflect a credit component. The allowance for loan and lease losses is increased through the provision for loan and lease losses and reduced by net charge offs. The provision for loan and lease losses, which is charged to earnings, reflects credit losses we believe have been incurred and will eventually be reflected over time in our charge offs.&#1 60; Charge offs of uncollectible amounts are deducted from the allowance and subsequent recoveries are added. We describe our process for determining our allowance for loan and lease losses in Note 1Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Table 22, which displays changes in our allowance for loan and lease losses for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, details, by loan type, the provision for credit losses recognized in our consolidated statements of income each period and the charge offs recorded against our allowance for loan and lease losses. 61 Table of Contents Table 22: Summary of Reported Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Balance at beginning of period, as reported $ 4,127 $ 4,524 $ 2,963 Impact from January 1, 2010 adoption of new consolidation accounting standards 4,317 (1) Balance at beginning of period, as adjusted $ 8,444 $ 4,524 $ 2,963 Provision for loan and lease losses 3,907 4,230 5,101 Charge offs: Credit Card business: Domestic credit card and installment (6,020 ) (3,050 ) (2,244 ) International credit card and installment (761 ) (284 ) (255 ) Total credit card (6,781 ) (3,334 ) (2,499 ) Consumer Banking business: Automobile (672 ) (1,110 ) (1,236 ) Home loans (97 ) (87 ) (38 ) Retail banking (129 ) (160 ) (122 ) Total consumer banking (898 ) (1,357 ) (1,396 ) Commercial Banking business: Commercial and multifamily real estate (207 ) (208 ) (47 ) Middle market (101 ) (53 ) (22 ) Specialty lending (36 ) (49 ) (10 ) Total commercial lending (344 ) (310 ) (79 ) Small ticket commercial real estate (100 ) (134 ) (8 ) Total commercial banking (444 ) (444 ) (87 ) Other loans (115 ) (207 ) (169 ) Total charge offs (8,238 ) (5,342 ) (4,151 ) Recoveries: Credit Card business: Domestic credit card and installment 1,113 447 425 International credit card and installment 169 52 65 Total credit card 1,282 499 490 Consumer Banking business: Automobile 215 238 158 Home loans 4 3 1 Retail banking 24 22 19 Total consumer banking 243 263 178 Commercial Banking business: Commercial and multifamily real estate 20 2 1 Middle market 24 3 2 Specialty lending 8 3 1 Total commercial lending 52 8 4 Small ticket commercial real estate 2 2 Total commercial banking 54 10 4 Other loans 8 2 1 Total recoveries 1,587 774 673 Net charge offs (6,651 ) (4,568 ) (3,478 ) Impact from acquisitions, sales and other changes(2) (72 ) (59 ) (62 ) Balance at end of period $ 5,628 $ 4,127 $ 4,524 Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of loans held for investment 4.47 % 4.55 % 4.48 % Allowance for loan and lease losses by geographic distribution: Domestic $ 5,168 $ 3,928 $ 4,331 International 460 199 193 Total allowance for loan and lease losses $ 5,628 $ 4,127 $ 4,524 Allowance for loan and lease losses by loan category: Domestic card $ 3,581 $ 1,927 $ 2,544 International card 460 199 193 Consumer banking 675 1,076 1,314 Commercial banking 826 785 301 Other 86 140 172 Allowance for loan and lease losses $ 5,628 $ 4,127 $ 4,524 (1) Includes an adjustment of $53 million made in the second quarter of 2010 for the impact as of January 1, 2010 of impairment on consolidated loans accounted for as TDRs. 62 Table of Contents (2) Includes a reduction in our allowance for loan and lease losses of $73 million during the first quarter of 2010 attributable to the sale of certain interest only option ARM bonds and the deconsolidation of the related securitization trusts related to Chevy Chase Bank in the first quarter of 2010. Table 23 presents an allocation of our allowance for loan and lease losses by loan category as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 23: Allocation of the Reported Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses December 31, 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Amount % of Total Loans(1) Amount % of Total Loans(1) Credit Card: Domestic credit card and installment $ 3,581 6.65 % $ 1,927 9.60 % International credit card and installment 460 6.12 199 8.75 Total credit card 4,041 6.58 2,126 9.52 Consumer Banking: Automobile 353 1.98 665 3.66 Home loans 112 0.93 175 1.18 Retail banking 210 4.76 236 4.60 Total consumer banking 675 1.96 1,076 2.82 Commercial Banking: Commercial and multifamily real estate 495 3.70 471 3.40 Middle market 162 1.55 131 1.30 Specialty lending 91 2.26 90 2.54 Total commercial lending 748 2.68 692 2.52 Small ticket commercial real estate 78 4.23 93 4.34 Total commercial banking 826 2.78 785 2.65 Other loans 86 19.07 140 30.91 Total $ 5,628 4.47 % $ 4,127 4.55 % Total allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of: Period end loans $ 125,947 4.47 % $ 90,619 4.55 % Nonperforming loans(2) 1,225 459.43 1,289 320.17 Allowance for loan and lease losses, by loan category, as a percentage of: Credit card (30 + day performing delinquent loans) $ 2,632 153.53 % $ 1,308 162.54 % Consumer banking (30 + day performing delinquent loans) 1,473 42.94 1,932 51.86 Commercial banking (nonperforming loans) 495 166.87 702 111.82 (1) Calculated based on the allowance for loan and lease losses attributable to each loan category divided by the outstanding balance of loans within the specified loan category. (2) As permitted by regulatory guidance issued by the FFEIC, our policy is generally not to classify credit card loans as nonperforming. We accrue interest on credit card loans through the date of charge off, typically in the period that the loan becomes 180 days past due. The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of nonperforming loans, excluding the allowance related to our credit card loans, was 129.55% as of December 31, 2010 and 155.33% as of December 31, 2009. As a result of our prospective adoption on January 1, 2010 of the new consolidation accounting standards, we added to our consolidated balance sheet $41.9 billion of assets and $4.3 billion of related allowance for loan and lease losses, consisting primarily of credit card loan receivables underlying our consolidated securitization trusts. Our allowance for loan and lease losses, after taking into consideration the $4.3 billion addition from the January 1, 2010 adoption of the new consolidation accounting standards and subsequent related adjustments, decreased by $2.8 billion during 2010 to $5.6 billion. The reduction in our allowance reflected the continued improvement in credit performance trends across our portfolios as a result of the slowly improving economy coupled with actions we have taken over the past several years to tight en our underwriting standards and exit certain portfolios. While we reduced the amount of our allowance for loan and lease losses in 2010, our allowance as a percentage of our total loan portfolio also decreased to 4.47% as of December 31, 2010, from 4.55% as of December 31, 2009. 63 Table of Contents Deposits Our deposits have become our largest source of funding for our operations and asset growth. Total deposits increased by $6.4 billion, or 5.5%, in 2010, to $122.2 billion as of December 31, 2010 from $115.8 billion as of December 31, 2009. The increase in deposits was primarily driven by increases of $9.1 billion, $6.4 billion, and $1.6 billion in savings accounts, money market deposits, and non interest bearing deposits, respectively, which was partially offset by a decrease of $9.7 billion in other consumer time deposits and $1.9 billion in certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more, reflecting our shift to more relationship driven, lower cost liquid savings and transaction accounts. We provide additional information on deposits, including the composition of our deposits, average outstanding balances, interest expe nse and yield, below in Liquidity and Funding. Senior and Subordinated Notes and Other Borrowings Senior and subordinated notes and other borrowings decreased to $14.9 billion as of December 31, 2010, from $17.1 billion as of December 31, 2009. The decrease was primarily attributable to a reduction in Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) advances. Because of the decrease in our loan portfolio and the increase in deposits during 2010, our funding needs were lower and we reduced our level of borrowings. We provide additional information on our borrowings in Note 10Deposits and Borrowings. Securitized Debt Obligations Borrowings owed to securitization investors, after taking into consideration the addition of $44.3 billion of debt issued to third party investors by securitization trusts that we were required to consolidate on January 1, 2010, as a result of the adoption of the new consolidation accounting standards, decreased by $21.4 billion to $26.9 billion as of December 31, 2010, from $48.3 billion as of January 1, 2010. This decrease was attributable to pay downs and charge offs of the loans underlying the securitization trusts and maturities. Potential Mortgage Representation & Warranty Liabilities In recent years, we acquired three subsidiaries that originated residential mortgage loans and sold them to various purchasers, including purchasers who created securitization trusts. These subsidiaries are Capital One Home Loans, which was acquired in February 2005; GreenPoint Mortgage Funding, Inc. (GreenPoint), which was acquired in December 2006 as part of the North Fork acquisition; and Chevy Chase Bank, which was acquired in February 2009 and subsequently merged into CONA. In connection with their sales of mortgage loans, the subsidiaries entered into agreements containing varying representations and warranties about, among other things, the ownership of the loan, the validity of the lien securing the loan, the loans compliance with any applicable loan criteria established by the purchaser, including underwriting guidelines and the ongoing existence of mortgage insurance, and the loans compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws. The representations and warranties do not address the credit performance of the mortgage loans, but mortgage loan performance often influences whether a claim for breach of representation and warranty will be asserted and has an effect on the amount of any loss in the event of a breach of a representation or warranty. Each of these subsidiaries may be required to repurchase mortgage loans in the event of certain breaches of these representations and warranties. In the event of a repurchase, the subsidiary is typically required to pay the then unpaid principal balance of the loan together with interest and certain expenses (including, in certain cases, legal costs incurred by the purchaser and or others). The subsidiary then recovers the loan or, if the loan has been foreclosed, the underlying collateral. The subsidiary is exposed to any losses on the repurchased loans after giving effect to any recoveries on the collateral. In some instances, rather than repurchase the loans, a subsidiary may agree to make a cash payment to make an investor whole on losses or to settle repurchase claims. In addition, our subsidia ries may be required to indemnify certain purchasers and others against losses they incur as a result of certain breaches of representations and warranties. In some cases, the amount of such losses could exceed the repurchase amount of the related loans. These subsidiaries, in total, originated and sold to non affiliates approximately $111 billion original principal balance of mortgage loans between 2005 and 2008, which are the years (or vintages) with respect to which our subsidiaries have received the vast majority of the repurchase requests and other related claims. The following table sets forth the original principal balance of mortgage loan originations by vintage for the three general categories of purchasers of mortgage loans: 64 Table of Contents Table 24: Original Principal Balance of Mortgage Loans Originated and Sold to Third Parties Based on Category of Purchaser (Dollars in billions) 2005 2006 2007 2008 Total Government sponsored enterprises (GSEs)(1) $ 3 $ 3 $ 4 $ 1 $ 11 Insured Securitizations 9 8 1 0 18 Uninsured Securitizations and Other 33 30 16 3 82 Total $ 45 $ 41 $ 21 $ 4 $ 111 (1) GSEs include Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Between 2005 and 2008, our subsidiaries sold an aggregate amount of $11 billion in original principal balance mortgage loans to the GSEs. Of the $18 billion in original principal balance of mortgage loans sold directly by our subsidiaries to private label purchasers who placed the loans into securitizations supported by bond insurance (Insured Securitizations), approximately $13 billion original principal balance was placed in securitizations as to which the monoline bond insurers have made repurchase requests or loan file requests to one of our subsidiaries (Active Insured Securitizations), and the remaining approximately $5 billion original principal balance was placed in securitizations as to which the monoline bond insurers have not made repurchase requests or loan file requests to one of our subsidiaries (Inactive Insured Securitizations). Insured Securitizations often allow the monoline bond insurer to act inde pendently of the investors. Bond insurers typically have indemnity agreements directly with both the mortgage originators and the securitizers, and they often have super majority rights within the trust documentation that allow them to direct trustees to pursue mortgage repurchase requests without coordination with other investors. Because we do not service most of the loans our subsidiaries sold to others, we do not have complete information about the current ownership of the $82 billion in original principal balance of mortgage loans not sold directly to GSEs or placed in Insured Securitizations. We have determined from third party databases that about $39 billion original principal balance of these mortgage loans are currently held by private label publicly issued securitizations not supported by bond insurance (Uninsured Securitizations). In contrast with the bond insurers in Insured Securitizations, investors in Uninsured Securitizations often face a number of legal and logistical hurdles before they can direct a securitization trustee to pursue mortgage repurchases, including the need to coordinate with a certain percentage of investors holding the securities and to indemnify the trustee for any litigation it undertakes. An additional approximately $30 billion original principal balance of mortgage loans were initially sold to private investors as whole loans. Of this amount, we believe approximately $10 billion original principal balance of mortgage loans were ultimately purchased by GSEs. For purposes of our reserves setting process, we consider these loans to be private label loans rather than GSE loans. We do not have information about the current holders or disposition of the remaining $13 billion original principal balance mortgage loans in this category. With respect to the $111 billion in original principal balance of mortgage loans originated and sold to others between 2005 and 2008, we estimate that approximately $45 billion in unpaid principal balance remains outstanding, approximately $12 billion in losses have been realized, and approximately $13 billion in unpaid principal balance is at least 90 days delinquent. Because we do not service most of the loans we sold to others, we do not have complete information about the underlying credit performance levels of these mortgage loans, but these amounts reflect our best estimates based on available data, including extrapolated estimates for the $13 billion original principal balance of mortgage loans about which we do not have information about the current holders. These estimates could change as we get additional d ata or refine our analysis. As of December 31, 2010, the subsidiaries had open repurchase requests relating to approximately $1.6 billion original principal balance of mortgage loans as compared with $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2009. Over the last year, the vast majority of new repurchase demands received and, as discussed below, almost all of our $816 million reserves, relate to the $24 billion of original principal balance of mortgage loans originally sold to the GSEs or to Active Insured Securitizations. Currently, repurchase demands predominantly relate to the 2006 and 2007 vintages. We have received relatively few repurchase demands from the 2008 and 2009 vintages, mostly because GreenPoint ceased originating mortgages in August 2007. Table 25 sets forth information on pending repurchase requests by counterparty category and timing of initial repurchase request: 65 Table of Contents Table 25: Open Pipeline All Vintages (all entities) (1) (Dollars in millions) (All amounts are Original Principal Balance) Open Claims December 31, 2009 Gross New Demands Received in 2010 Loans Repurchased/Made Whole in 2010(2) Demands Rescinded in 2010(2) Open Claims December 31, 2010 GSEs $ 61 $ 204 $ (52 ) $ (87 ) $ 126 Insured Securitizations 366 645 (179 ) 0 832 Uninsured Securitizations and Others 588 104 (5 ) (22 ) 665 Total $ 1,015 $ 953 $ (236 ) $ (109 ) $ 1,623 (1) The open pipeline includes all repurchase requests ever received by our subsidiaries where either the requesting party has not formally rescinded the repurchase request and where our subsidiary has not agreed to either repurchase the loan at issue or make the requesting party whole with respect to its losses. Accordingly, repurchase requests denied by our subsidiaries and not pursued by the counterparty remain in the open pipeline. Moreover, repurchase requests submitted by parties without contractual standing to pursue repurchase requests are included within the open pipeline unless the requesting party has formally rescinded its repurchase request. Finally, the amounts reflected in this chart are original principal balance amounts and do not correspond to the losses our subsidiary would incur upon the repurchase of these loans. (2) Activity in 2010 relates to repurchase demands from all years. We have established representation and warranty reserves for losses that we consider to be both probable and reasonably estimable associated with the mortgage loans sold by each subsidiary, including both litigation and non litigation liabilities. These reserves are reported in our consolidated balance sheets as a component of other liabilities. The reserve setting process relies heavily on estimates, which are inherently uncertain, and requires the application of judgment. We evaluate these estimates on a quarterly basis. We build our representation and warranty reserves through the provision for repurchase losses, which we report in our consolidated statements of income as a component of non interest income for loans originated and sold by Chevy Chase Bank and Capital One Home Loans and as a component of discontinued operations for loans originated and sold by GreenPoint. In establishing the representation and warranty reserves, we consider a variety of factors depending on the category of purchaser. In establishing reserves for the $11 billion original principal balance of GSE loans, we rely on the historical relationship between GSE loan losses and repurchase outcomes to estimate: (1) the percentage of current and future GSE loan defaults that we anticipate will result in repurchase requests from the GSEs over the lifetime of the GSE loans; and (2) the percentage of those repurchase requests that we anticipate will result in actual repurchases. We also rely on estimated collateral valuations and loss forecast models to estimate our lifetime liability on GSE loans. This reserving approach to the GSE loans reflects the historical interaction with the GSEs around repurchase requests. The GSEs have stronger contractual rights than non GSE counterparties because GSE contracts typically do not contain prompt notice requirements for repurchase requests or materiality qualifications to the representations and warranties. Moreover, although we often disagree with the GSEs about the validity of their repurchase requests, we have established a negotiation pattern whereby the GSEs and our subsidiaries continually negotiate around individual repurchase requests, leading to the GSEs rescinding some repurchase requests and our subsidiaries agreeing in some cases to repurchase some loans or make the GSEs whole with respect to losses. Our lifetime representation and warranty reserves with respect to GSE loans are grounded in this history. For the $13 billion original principal balance in Active Insured Securitizations, our reserving approach also reflects our historical interaction with monoline bond insurers around repurchase requests. Typically, monoline bond insurers allege a very high repurchase rate with respect to the mortgage loans in the Active Insured Securitization category. In response to these repurchase requests, our subsidiaries typically request information from the monoline bond insurers demonstrating that the contractual requirements around a valid repurchase request have been satisfied, such as, for example, the typical requirements that the counterparty promptly notify us upon discovery of any breach and that any breach materially and adversely affect the value of the mortgage loan at issue. In response to these requests for supporting documentation, monoline bond insurers typically initiate litigation. Accordingly, our reserves within the Active Insured Securitization are not based upon the historical repurchase rate with monoline bond insurers, but rather upon the expected resolution of litigation with the monoline bond insurers. Every bond insurer within this category is pursuing a substantially similar litigation strategy either through active or probable litigation. Accordingly, our representation and warranty reserves for this category are litigation reserves. In establishing litigation reserves for this category, we consider current and future losses inherent within the securitization and apply legal judgment to the anticipated factual and legal record to estimate the lifetime legal liability for each securitization. Our estimated legal liability for each securitization within this category assumes that we will be responsible for only a portion of the lo sses inherent in each securitization. Our litigation reserves with respect to both the U.S. Bank Lawsuit and the DBSP Lawsuit, in each case as referenced below, are contained within the Active Insured Securitization reserve category. Further, our litigation reserves with respect to indemnification risks from certain representation and warranty lawsuits brought by monoline bond insurers against third party securitizations sponsors, where GreenPoint provided some or all of the mortgage collateral within the securitization but is not a defendant in the litigation, are also contained within this category. 66 Table of Contents For the $5 billion original principal balance of mortgage loans in the Inactive Insured Securitizations category and the $82 billion original principal balance of mortage loans in the Uninsured Securitizations and other whole loans sales categories, we establish reserves by relying on our historical repurchase rates to estimate repurchase liabilities over the next twelve (12) months. We do not believe we can estimate repurchase liability for these categories for a period longer than twelve (12) months because of the relatively sporadic nature of repurchase requests from these categories. Although we have not seen any significant activity from new counterparties from these categories, there has been a recent uptick in negotiation intensity from some counterparties who had submitted repurchase claims in earlie r quarters with respect to whole loans. In addition, some Uninsured Securitization investors from this category have not made repurchase requests or filed representation and warranty lawsuits, but instead have filed class actions under federal and state securities laws against investment banks and securitization sponsors. Although we face some indemnity risks from these litigations, we have not established reserves with respect to these indemnity risks because we do not consider them to be both probable and reasonably estimable liabilities. The aggregate reserves for all three subsidiaries were $816 million as of December 31, 2010 as compared with $238 million as of December 31, 2009. We recorded a total provision for repurchase losses for our representation and warranty repurchase exposure of $636 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. During 2010, we had settlements of repurchase requests totaling $58 million that were charged against the reserve. Table 26 summarizes changes in our representation and warranty reserves for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Table 26: Changes in Representation and Warranty Reserves Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Representation and warranty repurchase reserve, beginning of period(1) $ 238 $ 140 Provision for repurchase losses(2) 636 (3) 181 Net realized losses (58 ) (83 ) Representation and warranty repurchase reserve, end of period(1) $ 816 $ 238 (1) Reported in our consolidated balance sheets as a component of other liabilities. (2) The portion of the provision for mortgage repurchase claims recognized in our consolidated statements of income as a component of non interest income totaled $204 million and $19 million, twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. The portion of the provision for mortgage repurchase claims recognized in our consolidated statements of income as a component of discontinued operations totaled $432 million and $162 million, pre tax, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. (3) Includes increases to the representation and warranty reserves in the first and second quarter of 2010 due primarily to counterparty activity and our ability to extend the timeframe over which we estimate our repurchase liability in most cases to the full life of the mortgage loans sold by our subsidiaries for groups of loans for which we believe repurchases are probable. More specifically, of the $636 million increase in representation and warranty reserves for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, approximately $407 million resulted from our extension of repurchase liability estimates to the life of the loan effective in the second quarter of 2010. The remaining $229 million reserve accrual related primarily to changing counterparty activity in the form of updated estimates around active and probable litigation, most of which occurred in the first quarter of 20 10. As indicated in Table 27, almost all of the reserves relate to the $11 billion in original principal balance of mortgage loans sold directly to the GSEs and to the $13 billion in mortgage loans sold to purchasers who placed them into Active Insured Securitizations. 67 Table of Contents Table 27: Allocation of Representation and Warranty Reserves December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions, except for loans sold) Loans Sold 2005 to 2008(1) Reserve Liability GSEs and Active Insured Securitizations $ 24 $ 796 Inactive Insured Securitizations and others 87 20 Total $ 111 $ 816 (1) Reflects, in billions, the total original principal balance of mortgage loans originated by our subsidiaries and sold to third party investors between 2005 and 2008. The adequacy of the reserves and the ultimate amount of losses incurred by our subsidiaries will depend on, among other things, actual future mortgage loan performance, the actual level of future repurchase and indemnification requests (including the extent, if any, to which Inactive Insured Securitizations and other currently inactive investors ultimately assert claims), the actual success rates of claimants, developments in litigation, actual recoveries on the collateral and macroeconomic conditions (including unemployment levels and housing prices). As part of our business planning processes, we have considered various outcomes relating to the potential future representation and warranty liabilities of our subsidiaries that are possible but do not arise to the level of being both probable and reasonably estimable outcomes that would justify an incremental reserve accrual under applicable accounting standards. We believe that the upper end of the reasonably possible future losses from representation and warranty claims beyond the current accrual levels, including reasonably possible future losses relating to the US Bank Litigation and DBSP Litigation , could be as high as $1.1 billion. Notwithstanding our attempt to estimate a reasonably possible amount of loss beyond our current accrual levels based on current information, it is possible that actu al future losses will exceed both the current accrual level and the amount of reasonably possible losses estimated here. There is still significant uncertainty as to numerous factors that contribute to ultimate liability levels, including, but not limited to, litigation outcomes, future repurchase claims levels, ultimate repurchase success rates, and mortgage loan performance levels. Also see representation and warranty liabilities and litigation claims in Note 21 Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees. RISK MANAGEMENT Our business activities expose us to eight major categories of risks: liquidity risk, credit risk, reputational risk, market risk, strategic risk, operational risk, compliance risk and legal risk. Our risk management framework is intended to identify, assess and mitigate risks that affect or have the potential to affect our business in order to target financial returns commensurate with our risk appetite and to avoid excessive risk taking. We follow four key risk management principles: Individual businesses take and manage risk in pursuit of strategic, financial and other business objectives. Independent risk management organizations support individual businesses by providing risk management tools and policies and by aggregating risks; in some cases, risks are managed centrally. The Board of Directors and senior management review our aggregate risk position, establish the risk appetite and work with management to ensure conformance to policy and adherence to our adopted mitigation strategy. We employ a top risk identification system to maintain the appropriate focus on the risks and issues that may have the most impact and to identify emerging risks of consequence. Our approach is reflected in four critical risk management practices of particular importance in the financial services industry due to changing regulatory environments and ongoing economic uncertainty. First, we seek to mitigate liquidity risk strategically and tactically. From a strategic perspective, we have acquired and built deposit gathering businesses and significantly reduced our loan to deposit ratio. From a tactical perspective, we have accumulated a very large liquidity reserve comprising cash, high quality, unencumbered securities, and committed collateralized credit lines and conduit facilities. 68 Table of Contents Second, we recognize that we are exposed to cyclical changes in credit quality. Consequently, we try to ensure our credit portfolio is resilient to economic downturns. Our most important tool is sound underwriting, using what we deem to be conservative assumptions. In unsecured consumer loan underwriting, we generally assume that loans will be subject to an environment in which losses are significantly higher than those prevailing at the time of underwriting. In commercial underwriting, we insist on strong cash flow, strong collateral, and strong covenants and guarantees. In addition to sound underwriting, we aggressively monitor our portfolio and aggressively collect or work out distressed loans. Third, we recognize that reputational risk is of particular concern for financial institutions as a result of the aftermath of the recent financial crisis and economic downturn, which has resulted in increased regulation and widespread regulatory changes. Consequently, our Chief Executive Officer and executive team manage both tactical and strategic reputation issues and build our relationships with the government, media, and other constituencies to help strengthen the reputations of both our company and industry. Our actions include taking public positions in support of better consumer practices in our industry and, where possible, unilaterally implementing those practices in our business. Finally, we recognize that maintaining a strong capital position is essential to our business strategy and competitive position. While capital is not a risk unto itself, understanding and managing risks to our capital position is an underlying objective of all our risk programs. Stress testing and economic capital measurement, both of which incorporate inputs from across the risk spectrum, are key tools for evaluating our capital position and risk adjusted returns. We also consider risks to our reputation and to our ability to access capital markets as part of our process for evaluating our capital plans. See MD&ALiquidity and Capital Management for additional information on our capital adequacy and strength. Risk Management Roles and Responsibilities The Board of Directors is responsible for establishing our overall risk framework; approving and overseeing execution of the Enterprise Risk Management Policy and key risk category policies; establishing our risk appetite; and regularly reviewing our risk profile. The Chief Risk Officer, who reports to the CEO, is responsible for overseeing our risk management program and driving appropriate action to resolve any weaknesses. The risk management program begins with a set of policies and risk appetites approved by the Board that are implemented through a system of risk committees and senior executive risk stewards. We have established risk committees at both the corporate and divisional level to identify and manage risk. In addition, we have assigned a senior executive expert to each of eight risk categories (the risk stewards). These executive risk stewards work with the Chief Risk Officer and the risk committees to ensure that risks are identified and given appropriate priority and attention. The Chief Risk Officer aggregates the results of these processes to assemble a view of our risk profil e. Both management and the Board regularly review the risk profile. Risk Management and Control Framework We use a consistent framework to manage risk. The framework applies at all levels, from the development of the Enterprise Risk Management Program itself to the tactical operations of the front line business team. The framework has six key elements: Objective Setting; Risk Assessment; Control Activities; Communication and Information; Program Monitoring; and Organization and Culture. Objective Setting is at the beginning of our risk management approach. We set strategic, financial, operational, and other objectives during our strategic and annual planning processes and throughout the year. These objectives cascade through the organization to individual teams of associates. The risk management approach helps identify and manage risks that have the potential to interfere with the achievement of our stated objectives. Risk Assessment is the process of identifying risks to our objectives, evaluating the impact of those risks and choosing and executing on a response. Responses include avoidance, mitigation, or acceptance. Generally, risk responses are guided by our established risk appetite. For certain risk categories, risk assessment is largely conducted by central risk groups or jointly between business areas and central groups (market, liquidity, legal, credit, compliance). In other risk categories, risk assessment is primarily the responsibility of business areas with more limited central support (strategic, operational, reputation). Control Activities are the day to day backbone of risk management. Controls provide reasonable assurance that legal, regulatory, and business requirements are being met, and identified risks are being mitigated, avoided, or accepted according to our risk response choices and risk appetite. We have practices in place designed to ensure key controls are established, evaluated, and effective in preventing a breakdown. Control activities include the monitoring of adherence to current policy and procedure requirements, sign offs, and regular reporting to management. . They also include the resolution of regulatory and audit findings and issues and the procedures that trigger objective setting and risk assessments when new business opportunities are evaluated or busines s hierarchy changes occur. 69 Table of Contents Communication and Information infrastructures must be solid and are necessary to support the objective setting, risk assessment, and control activities described above. Specific reports and communication infrastructure are defined within our individual risk category policies. Our risk governance structure is designed to support solid and ongoing communication. Robust risk management requires well functioning communication channels to inform associates of their responsibilities, alert them to issues or changes that might affect their activities, and to enable an open flow of information up, down, and across our company. Robust risk management also requires management information to enable controls to work effectively and to support the analysi s needed to set objectives and assess risk accurately. Program Monitoring is critical to our risk management program overall. Program monitoring assesses the accuracy, sufficiency, and effectiveness of current objectives, risk assessments, controls, ownership, communication, and management support. The assessment of a risk program or activity can be qualitative or quantitative. We encourage the use of measurement and metrics, where it is possible and recognizing that some risks or programs cannot be measured quantitatively. Where deficiencies are discovered, we seek to update the risk management program to resolve the deficiencies in a timely manner. Significant deficiencies are escalated to the appropriate risk executive or risk committee. Clear accountability is defined wh en resolving deficiencies to ensure the desired outcome is achieved. Risk management programs are monitored at every level; from the overall Enterprise Risk Management Program to the individual risk management activities in each business area. Organization and Culture is intended to create and maintain an effective risk management organization and culture. A strong organization and culture promotes risk management as a key factor in making important business decisions and helps drive risk management activities deeper into the company. An effective risk management culture starts with a well defined risk management philosophy. It requires established risk management objectives that align to business objectives and make targeted risk management activities part of ongoing business management activities. We believe we staff risk functions at the appropriate levels with qualified associates and effective tools that support risk management practices and activities. S enior management and the Board of Directors are ultimately accountable for promoting adherence to sound risk principles and tolerances. We seek to incent associates at all levels to perform according to corporate policies and risk tolerance and in conformity with applicable laws and regulations. Additionally, management tries to ensure that performance goals, plans, and incentives are designed to promote financial performance within the confines of a sound risk management program and within defined risk tolerances. We have a corporate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the Code) (available on the Corporate Governance page of our website at www.capitalone.com/about) under which each associate is obligated to behave with integrity in dealing with customers and business partners and to comply with applicable laws and regulations. We disclose any waivers to the Code on our website. We also have an associate performance management process that emphasizes achieving business results while ensuring integrity, compliance, and sound business management. Risk Appetite We have a defined risk appetite for each of our eight risk categories that is approved by the Board of Directors. Each risk category has its own risk appetite statement. Stated risk appetites, and the assessment framework that support them, define the guardrails for taking and accepting risks and are used by senior management and the Board to make business decisions. The risk appetite framework assesses each risk category across three dimensions, using consistent, comprehensive, and understandable measures. The three dimensions are: Net Risk: Assessment of the level of risk given internal and external factors Quality of Governance and Controls: Evidence demonstrating the strength (or weakness) of our risk governance structure and or controls associated with the risk category and our ability to address issues Mitigation Plan Status: When needed, the status of our key mitigation activity needed to reduce risk All three framework dimensions are assessed and measured using a five point scale. The assessment language in each scale is customized by each risk steward to reflect the tolerance levels of each of the eight risk categories. 70 Table of Contents Risk Categories Our risk management program is organized around eight risk categories. They are: Liquidity Risk: is the risk that future financial obligations are not met or future asset growth cannot occur because of an inability to obtain funds at a reasonable price within a reasonable time. The Chief Financial Officer is the accountable executive for liquidity risk. Liquidity strength is assessed by evaluating several different balance sheet metrics under severe stress scenarios to ensure we can withstand significant funding degradation in both deposits and capital marketing funding sources. Management reports liquidity metrics to the Finance and Trust Oversight Committee of the Board no less than quarterly and to Asset/Liability Management Committee on a monthly basis. Breaches in liquidity metric limits are reported to the Treasurer as soon as they are identified and to the Asset/Liability Management Committee at the next regularly scheduled committee meeting, unless the breach activates the Liquidity Contingency Plan. Breaches are also reported to the Finance and Trust Oversight Committee no later than the next regularly scheduled meeting. Detailed processes, requirements and controls are contained in our policies and supporting procedures. Credit Risk: is the risk of loss from a borrowers failure to meet the terms of any contract or failure to otherwise perform as agreed. There are four primary sources of credit risk: (1) changing economic conditions, which affect borrowers ability to pay and the value of any collateral; (2) a changing competitive environment, which affects customer debt loads, borrowing patterns and loan terms; (3) our underwriting strategies and standards, which determine to whom we offer credit and on what terms; and (4) the quality of our internal controls, which establish a process to test that underwriting conforms to our standards and identifies credit quality issues so we can act upon them in a timely manner. The Chief Risk Officer is the ac countable executive for credit risk. We have quantitative credit risk guidelines for each of our lines of business. We conduct portfolio and decision level monitoring and stress tests using economic and legislative stress scenarios. Credit risk objectives are achieved by establishing a credit governance framework and by establishing policies, procedures, and controls for each step in the credit process. The Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Consumer and Commercial Credit Officers, and Division Presidents have specific accountable roles in the management of credit risk. These include policy approval, creation of credit strategy, review of credit position, delegation of authority, and appointments and responsibilities of key executives and Credit Policy Committee members. Our evolving credit risk position and recommendations to address issues are review ed by managements Credit Policy Committee and the Board of Directors. Reputation Risk: is the risk to market value, recruitment, and retention of talented associates and a loyal customer base due to the negative perceptions of our internal and external stakeholders regarding our business strategies and activities. Our General Counsel is the accountable executive for reputation risk. Reputation risk associated with daily interactions are managed by our business areas. Business area activities are controlled by the frameworks set forth in the Reputation Risk Policy and other risk management policies. Each business area determines how much risk it is willing to accept and when it is prudent to execute mitigation activities. The Reputation Risk Management Policy sets forth the obligation of each business area, with direction and guidance from the Reputation Risk Steward and his or her designee to identify, assess and determine whether and how best to mitigate its reputation risk. The Reputation Risk Steward is responsible for reporting on the assessments of our aggregate reputation risk, as well as the state of our reputation with specific stakeholder groups, to the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Executive Officer, and the Risk Management Committee as appropriate. Market Risk: is the risk that earnings or the economic value of equity will under perform due to changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates (market rates), or other financial market asset prices. Our ability to manage market risks contributes to our overall capital management. The Chief Financial Officer is the accountable executive for market risk. The market risk positions of our banking entities and the company are calculated separately and in total and are reported versus pre established limits to the Asset/Liability Management Committee and the Finance and Trust Oversight Committee of the Board no less than quarterly. Management is authorized to utilize financial instruments as outlined in our policy to actively manage market risk exposure. Detailed processes, requirements and controls are contained in our policies and supporting procedures. 71 Table of Contents Strategic Risk: is the risk that we fail to achieve short and long term business objectives because we fail to develop the products, capabilities, and competitive position necessary to attract consumers, succeed against competitors and withstand market volatility. The result is a failure to deliver returns expected by stakeholders (customers, associates, stockholders, investors, communities, and regulators). The Chief Executive Officer is the accountable executive for our strategy. The Chief Executive Officer develops an overall corporate strategy and leads alignment of the entire organization with this strategy through definition of strategic imperatives and top down communication. The Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives spend significant time throughout the entire company sharing our strategic imperatives to promote an understanding of our strategy and connect it to day to day associate activities to enable effective execution. Division Presidents are accountable for defining business strategy within the context of the overall corporate level strategy and Strategic Imperatives. Business strategies are integrated into the Corporate Strategic Plan and are reviewed and approved separately and together on an annual basis by the Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors. Operational Risk: is the risk of loss, adverse customer experience, or negative regulatory or reputation impact resulting from failed or inadequate processes, associate capabilities or systems, or exposure to external events. The Chief Compliance Officer is the accountable executive for establishment of risk management standards and for governance and monitoring of operational risk at a corporate level. Division Presidents have primary accountability for management of operational risk within their business areas. While most operational risks are managed and controlled by business areas, the Operational Risk Management Program establishes requirements and control processes that assure certain consistent practices in the management of operational risk, and provides transparency to the corporate operational risk profile. Our Operational Risk Management Program also includes two primary additional functions. Operational Risk Reporting involves independent assessments of the control and sustainability of key business processes at a corporate and business area level, and such assessments are provided to the Chief Risk Officer, managements Risk Management Committee, and the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board. The Operational Risk Capital function, in conjunction with the corporate capital process managed by Global Finance, establishes necessary operational risk capital levels to assure resiliency against extreme operational risk event scenarios. Operational Risk results and trends are reported to the Risk Management Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board. Compliance Risk: is the risk of financial loss due to regulatory fines or penalties, restriction or suspension of business, or cost of mandatory corrective action as a result of failing to adhere to applicable laws, regulations, principles and supervisory guidance as well as our own internal standards intended to adhere to these laws and regulations. Division Presidents are the accountable executives for compliance risk and are responsible for building and maintaining compliance processes. With the Chief Compliance Officer, Division Presidents are jointly accountable for ensuring the Compliance Management Program requirements are met for their division. We ensure compliance by maintaining an effective Compliance Management Program consisting of sound policies, systems, processes, and reports. The Compliance Management Program provides management with guidance, training, and monitoring to provide reasonable assurance of our compliance with internal and external compliance requirements. Additionally, management and the Corporate Compliance department jointly and separately conduct on going monitoring and assess the state of compliance. The assessment provides the basis for performance reporting to management and the Board, allows business areas to determine if their compliance performance is acceptable, and confirms effective compliance controls are in place. Business areas embed compliance requirements and controls into their business policies, standards, processes and procedures. They re gularly monitor and report on the efficiency of their compliance controls. Corporate Compliance, jointly working with the business, defines and validates a standard compliance monitoring and reporting methodology. Compliance results and trends are reported to managements Risk Management Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board. Legal Risk: is the risk of material adverse impact due to: (i) new and changed laws and regulations; (ii) new interpretations of law; (iii) the drafting, interpretation and enforceability of contracts; (iv) adverse decisions or consequences arising from litigation or regulatory scrutiny; (v) the establishment, management and governance of our legal entity structure; and (vi) the failure to seek or follow appropriate legal counsel when needed. Our General Counsel is the accountable executive for monitoring and controlling legal risk. Our Legal Department serves as our control against legal risk by providing legal evaluation and guidance to the enterprise and business areas. This evaluation and guidance is based on the assessment of legal counsel of the type and degree of legal risk associated with the internal business area practices and activities and of the controls the business has in place to mitigate legal risks. Legal risk is governed by and defined in our Legal Risk Policy. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Liquidity We have established liquidity guidelines that are intended to ensure that we have sufficient asset based liquidity to withstand the potential impact of deposit attrition or diminished liquidity in the funding markets. Our guidelines include maintaining an adequate liquidity reserve to cover our potential funding requirements and diversified funding sources to avoid over dependence on volatile, less reliable funding markets. Our liquidity reserves consist of cash and cash equivalents, unencumbered available for sale securities and undrawn committed securitization borrowing facilities. Table 28 below presents the composition of our liquidity reserves as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. Our liquidity reserves decreased by $1.5 billion during 2010 to $37.0 billion as of December 31, 2010. Table 28: Liquidity Reserves December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Cash and cash equivalents $ 5,249 $ 8,685 Securities available for sale(1) 41,537 38,830 Less: Pledged available for sale securities (9,963 ) (11,883 ) Unencumbered available for sale securities 31,574 26,947 Undrawn committed securitization borrowing facilities 207 2,913 Total liquidity reserves $ 37,030 $ 38,545 (1) The weighted average life of our available for sale securities was approximately 5.1 and 4.9 years as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Funding Our funding objective is to establish an appropriate maturity profile using a cost effective mix of both short term and long term funds. We use a variety of funding sources, including deposits, loan securitizations, debt and equity securities, securitization borrowing facilities and FHLB advances. 72 Table of Contents Deposits Our deposits provide a stable and relatively low cost of funds and have become our largest source of funding. We have expanded our opportunities for deposit growth through direct and indirect marketing channels, our existing branch network and branch expansion. These channels offer a broad set of deposit products that include demand deposits, money market deposits, negotiable order of withdrawal (NOW) accounts, savings accounts and certificates of deposit. Table 29 presents the composition of our deposits by type as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. Total deposits increased by $6.4 billion, or 5.5%, in 2010, to $122.2 billion as of December 31, 2010. Table 29: Deposits December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Non interest bearing $ 15,048 $ 13,439 NOW accounts 13,536 12,077 Money market deposit accounts 44,485 38,094 Savings accounts 26,077 17,019 Other consumer time deposits 15,753 25,456 Total core deposits 114,899 106,085 Public fund certificates of deposit $100,000 or more 177 579 Certificates of deposit $100,000 or more 6,300 8,248 Foreign time deposits 834 897 Total deposits $ 122,210 $ 115,809 Of our total deposits, approximately $834 million and $897 million were held in foreign banking offices as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Large domestic denomination certificates of deposits of $100,000 or more represented $6.5 billion and $8.8 billion of our total deposits as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our funding and liquidity strategy takes into consideration the scheduled maturities of large denomination time deposits. Of the $6.5 billion in large domestic denomination certificates of deposit as of December 31, 2010, $0.7 billion is scheduled to mature within the next three months; $2.3 billion is scheduled to mature between three and 12 months and $3.5 billion is scheduled to mature over 12 months. Based on past activity, we expect to retain a portion of these deposits as they mature. We have brokered deposits, which we obtained through the use of third party intermediaries that are included above in Table 28 in money market deposit accounts and other consumer time deposits. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 limits the use of brokered deposits to well capitalized insured depository institutions and, with a waiver from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, to adequately capitalized institutions. COBNA and CONA were well capitalized, as defined under the federal banking regulatory guidelines, as of December 31, 2010, and therefore permitted to maintain brokered deposits. Our brokered deposits totaled $14.8 billion, or 12% of total deposits, as of December 31, 2010. Brokered deposits totaled $18.8 billion, or 16% of total deposits, as of Decemb er 31, 2009. Based on our historical access to the brokered deposit market, we expect to replace maturing brokered deposits with new brokered deposits or direct deposits and branch deposits. Table 30 provides a summary of the future maturities of large denomination time deposits. Our funding and liquidity planning factors in the maturities of these deposits. Based on past activity, we expect to retain a portion of these deposits as they mature. Therefore, the expected net cash outflow will be less than reported in the summary table. Table 30: Maturities of Large Domestic Denomination Certificates$100,000 or More December 31, 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Balance Percent Balance Percent Three months or less $ 707 10.9 % $ 1,464 16.6 % Over 3 through 6 months 650 10.0 1,273 14.4 Over 6 through 12 months 1,612 24.9 1,623 18.4 Over 12 months through 10 years 3,508 54.2 4,467 50.6 Total $ 6,477 100.0 % $ 8,827 100.0 % 73 Table of Contents Table 31 provides a summary of the composition of period end, average deposits, interest expense and the average deposit rate paid for the periods presented. Table 31: Deposit Composition and Average Deposit Rates December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) Period End Balance Average Balance Interest Expense % of Average Deposits Average Deposit Rate Non interest bearing $ 15,048 $ 14,267 N/A 12.0 % N/A NOW accounts 13,536 12,032 $ 36 10.1 0.30 % Money market deposit accounts 44,485 42,159 409 35.4 0.97 Savings accounts 26,077 21,854 188 18.4 0.86 Other consumer time deposits 15,753 20,655 585 17.4 2.83 Total core deposits 114,899 110,967 1,218 93.3 1.10 Public fund certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more 177 265 5 0.2 2.03 Certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more 6,300 6,912 237 5.8 3.43 Foreign time deposits 834 866 5 0.7 0.57 Total deposits $ 122,210 $ 119,010 $ 1,465 100.0 % 1.23 % December 31, 2009 (Dollars in millions) Period End Balance Average Balance Interest Expense % of Average Deposits Average Deposit Rate Non interest bearing $ 13,439 $ 12,523 N/A 10.8 % N/A NOW accounts 12,077 10,690 $ 60 9.3 0.57 % Money market deposit accounts 38,094 35,055 412 30.3 1.18 Savings accounts 17,019 11,340 79 9.8 0.69 Other consumer time deposits 25,456 32,736 1,113 28.3 3.40 Total core deposits 106,085 102,344 1,664 88.5 1.63 Public fund certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more 579 1,034 13 0.9 1.31 Certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more 8,248 10,367 385 9.0 3.71 Foreign time deposits 897 1,856 31 1.6 1.66 Total deposits $ 115,809 $ 115,601 $ 2,093 100.0 % 1.81 % Short Term Borrowings We also have access to and utilize various other short term borrowings to support our operations. These borrowings are generally in the form of federal funds purchased and resale agreements, most of which are overnight borrowings. Other short term borrowings are not a significant portion of our overall funding. Table 32 provides summary information about the amounts borrowed and rates paid on other short term borrowings. Table 32: Short Term Borrowings (Dollars in millions) Maximum Outstanding as of any Month End Outstanding as of Year End Average Outstanding Average Interest Rate Year End Weighted Average Interest Rate 2010: Federal funds purchased and resale agreements $ 2,469 $ 1,517 $ 1,731 0.23 % 0.13 % 2009: Federal funds purchased and resale agreements $ 3,778 $ 1,140 $ 2,958 0.25 % 0.11 % 74 Table of Contents Other Funding Sources We also access the capital markets to meet our funding needs through loan securitization transactions and the issuance of senior and subordinated debt. In addition, we utilize advances from the FHLB that are secured by our investment securities, residential home loan portfolio, multifamily loans, commercial real estate loans and home equity lines of credit for our funding needs. We have committed loan securitization conduit lines of $1.3 billion, of which $1.1 billion was outstanding as of December 31, 2010. Senior and subordinated notes and other borrowings, including FHLB advances, totaled $14.9 billion as of December 31, 2010, down from $17.1 billion as of December 31, 2009. The $2.1 billion decrease was primarily attributable to a reduction in FHLB advances. Our FHLB membership is secured by our investment in FHLB stock, which totaled $269 million as of December 31, 2010. We did not issue any senior or subordinated debt during 2010. Borrowing Capacity As of December 31, 2010, we had an effective shelf registration statement filed with the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC) under which, from time to time, we may offer and sell an indeterminate aggregate amount of senior or subordinated debt securities, preferred stock, depository shares representing preferred stock, common stock, purchase contracts, warrants, units, trust preferred securities, junior subordinated debt securities, guarantees of trust preferred securities and certain back up obligations. There is no limit under this shelf registration statement to the amount or number of such securities that we may offer and sell. Under SEC rules, the shelf registration statement, which we filed in May 2009, expires three years after filing. We did not issue any securities under the shelf registration state ment in 2010. In addition to issuance capacity under the shelf registration statement, we have access to other borrowing programs. Table 33 summarizes our borrowing capacity as of December 31, 2010. Table 33: Borrowing Capacity (Dollars or dollar equivalents in millions) Effective/ Issue Date Capacity(1) Outstanding Availability(1) Final Maturity(2) FHLB Advances and Letters of Credit (3) 9,823 1,394 8,429 Committed Securitization Conduits(4) 1,263 1,056 207 11/11 (1) All funding sources are non revolving. Funding availability under all other sources is subject to market conditions. Capacity is the maximum amount that can be borrowed. Availability is the amount that can still be borrowed against the facility. (2) Maturity date refers to the date the facility terminates, where applicable. (3) The ability to draw down funding is based on membership status, and the amount is dependent upon the Banks ability to post collateral. (4) Committed securitization conduits capacity is set at various dates in conjunction with each arrangement, with the last termination scheduled for November 2011. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, we into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments that affect our short and long term liquidity and capital resource needs. Commitments for future cash expenditures primarily relate to deposits, debt securities and other borrowings and operating leases. Table 34 provides aggregated information about the listed categories of our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010. The table includes information about undiscounted future cash payments due under these contractual obligations, including the contractual maturity profile of deposits, debt securities and other borrowings reported on our consolidated balance sheet and our operating leases at December 31, 2010. The timing of actual future payments may differ from those presented due to a number of fac tors, including discretionary debt repurchases. The table excludes certain obligations such as trade payables and trading liabilities, where the obligation is short term or subject to valuation based on market factors. The table also excludes the representation and warranty reserve of $816 million. 75 Table of Contents Table 34: Contractual Funding Obligations December 31, 2010 (Dollars in millions) Up to 1 Year &gt; 1 Year to 3 Years &gt; 3 Years to 5 Years &gt; 5 Years Total Interest bearing time deposits(1) $ 10,208 $ 8,763 $ 2,814 $ 449 $ 22,234 Senior and subordinated notes 884 1,479 1,833 4,454 8,650 Other borrowings(2) 12,222 7,534 4,377 9,013 33,146 Operating leases 159 297 257 785 1,498 Purchase obligations 224 93 6 15 338 Total obligations $ 23,697 $ 18,166 $ 9,287 $ 14,716 $ 65,866 (1) Includes only those interest bearing deposits which have a contractual maturity date. (2) Other borrowings includes secured borrowings for our on balance sheet auto loan securitizations, junior subordinated capital securities and debentures, FHLB advances, federal funds purchased and resale agreements and other short term borrowings. Covenants In connection with the issuance of certain of our trust preferred securities, we entered into Replacement Capital Covenants (RCCs) granting certain rights to the holders of covered debt which was defined in the RCCs as our 5.35% Subordinated Notes due May 1, 2014. The RCCs prohibited the repayment, redemption or purchase of the trust preferred securities except, with limited exceptions, to the extent that we received specified amounts of proceeds from the sale of certain qualifying securities. We commenced a solicitation of consents from the covered debtholders on November 29, 2010, to terminate the RCCs. The RCCs were terminated on December 10, 2010, the expiration date of the consent solicitation, at which time we had received the consent of holders of a majority of the principal am ount of the covered debt. The terms of certain lease and credit facility agreements related to other borrowings and operating leases include several financial covenants that require performance measures and equity ratios to be met. If these covenants are not met, there may be an acceleration of the payment due dates noted in Table 32. As of December 31, 2010, we were not in default of any such covenants. Capital The level and composition of our equity capital are determined by multiple factors including our consolidated regulatory capital requirements and an internal risk based capital assessment, and may also be influenced by rating agency guidelines, subsidiary capital requirements, the business environment, conditions in the financial markets and assessments of potential future losses due to adverse changes in our business and market environments. Capital Standards and Prompt Corrective Action Bank holding companies and national banks are subject to capital adequacy standards adopted by the Federal Reserve and the OCC, respectively. The capital adequacy standards set forth minimum risk based and leverage capital requirements that are based on quantitative and qualitative measures of their assets and off balance sheet items. Under the capital adequacy standards, bank holding companies and banks currently are required to maintain a total risk based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk based capital ratio of at least 4%, and a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 4% (3% for banks that meet certain specified criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate exposure and the highest regulatory rating). Under prompt corrective action capital regulations, a bank is considered to be well capitalized if it maintains a total risk based capital ratio of at least 10% (200 basis points higher than the above minimum capital standard), a Tier 1 risk based capital ratio of at least 6%, a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 5% and not be subject to any supervisory agreement, order, or directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital reserve. A bank is considered to be adequately capitalized if it meets the above minimum capital ratios and does not otherwise meet the well capitalized definition. Currently, prompt corrective action capital requirements do not apply to bank holding companies. In addition to disclosing our regulatory capital ratios, we also disclose Tier 1 common equity and TCE ratios, which are non GAAP measures widely used by investors, analysts, rating agencies and bank regulatory agencies to assess the capital position of financial services companies. There is currently no mandated minimum or well capitalized standard for Tier 1 common equity; instead the risk based capital rules state voting common stockholders equity should be the dominant element within Tier 1 common equity. Management reviews our Tier 1 common equity and TCE ratios, along with other measures of capital, as part of its financial analyses and discloses these non GAAP capital measures because of current interest in such information on the part of market participants. Please see "Financial Highlights " under "Executive Summary and Business Outlook" for more information on our TCE ratio. Table 35 provides the details of the calculation of our capital ratios, including a reconciliation of the total stockholders equity reported in our consolidated balance sheets to Tier 1 common equity. 76 Table of Contents Table 35: Risk Based Capital Components December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 Total stockholders equity $ 26,541 $ 26,590 Less: Net unrealized (gains) on available for sale securities recorded in AOCI(1) (368 ) (200 ) Net losses on cash flow hedges recorded in AOCI(1) 86 92 Disallowed goodwill and other intangible assets (13,953 ) (14,125 ) Disallowed deferred tax assets (1,150 ) Other (2 ) (10 ) Tier 1 common equity 11,154 12,347 Plus: Tier 1 restricted core capital items(2) 3,636 3,642 Tier 1 risk based capital 14,790 15,989 Plus: Long term debt qualifying as Tier 2 capital 2,827 3,018 Qualifying allowance for loan and lease losses 3,748 1,581 Other Tier 2 components 29 4 Tier 2 risk based capital 6,604 4,603 Total risk based capital $ 21,394 $ 20,592 Risk weighted assets(3) $ 127,043 $ 116,309 (1) Amounts presented are net of tax. (2) Consists primarily of trust preferred securities. (3) Under regulatory guidelines for risk based capital, on balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of derivatives and off balance sheet items are assigned to one of several broad risk categories according to the obligor or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of any collateral. The aggregate dollar amount in each risk category is then multiplied by the risk weight associated with that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the risk categories are aggregated for determining total risk weighted assets. Table 36 provides a comparison of our capital ratios under the Federal Reserves capital adequacy standards; and the capital ratios of the Banks under the OCCs capital adequacy standards as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. As of December 31, 2010, we exceeded minimum capital requirements and would meet the well capitalized ratio levels specified under prompt corrective action for total risk based capital and Tier 1 risk based capital under Federal Reserve capital standards for bank holding companies. As of December 31, 2010, the Banks also exceeded minimum regulatory requirements under the OCCs applicable capital adequacy guidelines and were well capitalized under prompt corrective action re quirements. 77 Table of Contents Table 36: Capital Ratios(1) December 31, 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Capital Ratio Minimum Capital Adequacy Well Capitalized Capital Ratio Minimum Capital Adequacy Well Capitalized Capital One Financial Corp: (2) Tier 1 common equity(3) 8.78 % N/A N/A 10.62 % N/A N/A Tier 1 risk based capital(4) 11.63 4.00 % 6.00 % 13.75 4.00 % 6.00 % Total risk based capital(5) 16.83 8.00 10.00 17.70 8.00 10.00 Tier 1 leverage(6) 8.13 4.00 N/A 10.28 4.00 N/A Capital One Bank (USA) N.A. Tier 1 risk based capital 13.50 % 4.00 % 6.00 % 18.27 % 4.00 % 6.00 % Total risk based capital 23.57 8.00 10.00 26.40 8.00 10.00 Tier 1 leverage 8.29 4.00 5.00 13.03 4.00 5.00 Capital One, N.A. Tier 1 risk based capital 11.07 % 4.00 % 6.00 % 10.22 % 4.00 % 6.00 % Total risk based capital 12.36 8.00 10.00 11.46 8.00 10.00 Tier 1 leverage 8.06 4.00 5.00 7.42 4.00 5.00 (1) Effective January 1, 2010, we are no longer required to apply the subprime capital risk weighting to credit card loans with a credit score equal to or lessr than 660. Accordingly, we no longer disclose these ratios. (2) The regulatory framework for prompt corrective action does not apply to Capital One Financial Corp. because it is a bank holding company. (3) Tier 1 common equity ratio is a non GAAP measure calculated based on Tier 1 common equity divided by risk weighted assets. (4) Calculated based on Tier 1 capital divided by risk weighted assets. (5) Calculated based on Total risk based capital divided by risk weighted assets. (6) Calculated based on Tier 1 capital divided by quarterly average total assets, after certain adjustments. The January 1, 2010 adoption of the new consolidation accounting standards resulted in our consolidating a substantial portion of our securitization trusts and establishing an allowance for loan and lease losses for the assets underlying these trusts, which reduced retained earnings and our Tier 1 risk based capital ratio. In January 2010, banking regulators issued regulatory capital rules related to the impact of the new consolidation accounting standards. Under these rules, we are required to hold additional capital for the assets we consolidated. The capital rules also provided for an optional phase in of the impact from the adoption of the new consolidation accounting standards, including a two quarter implementation delay followed by a two quarter partial implementation of the effect on regulatory capital ratios. We elected the phase in option, which required us to phase in 50% of consolidated assets beginning with the third quarter of 2010 for purposes of determining risk weighted assets. However, the phase in impact was effectively accelerated over the first three quarters of 2010 due to pay downs of outstanding securitization debt. The phase in provisions expired after December 31, 2010, and the full impact of the consolidated assets on capital ratios will be realized in the first quarter of 2011. Under the Dodd Frank Act, many trust preferred securities will cease to qualify for Tier 1 capital, subject to a three year phase out period expected to begin in 2013. See Supervision and Regulation for more information. Dividend Policy The declaration and payment of dividends to our stockholders, as well as the amount thereof, are subject to the discretion of the our Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, capital levels, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. As a bank holding company, our ability to pay dividends is largely dependent upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries. For additional information on dividends, See Item 1. Business Supervision and Regulation Dividends, Stock Purchases and Transfer of Funds. Regulatory restrictions exist that limit the ability of the Banks to transfer funds to us. As of December 31, 2010, funds available for dividend payments from the Banks were $1.4 billion and zero, respectively. Funds available for dividend payments from the Banks in the third quarter of 2010 were $803 million and zero, respectively. Although funds are available for dividend payments from COBNA, we would execute a dividend from COBNA in consultation with the OCC. Additionally, a dividend payment by CONA would require prior approval of the OCC. Applicable provisions that may be contained in our borrowing agreements or the borrowing agreements of our subsidiaries may limit our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends to us or our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. There can be no assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends. 78 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2010, we participated in a Federal Reserve led Capital Plan Review and stress test along with 19 other top U.S. banks. We will incorporate any feedback from our regulators in response to the Capital Plan Review in our ongoing capital management actions. MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT Market risk generally represents the risk that our earnings and or economic value of equity may be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. Market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities, including loans, deposits, securities, short term borrowings, long term debt and derivatives. Market conditions that may change from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates, credit spreads and price fluctuation or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of issuers. Our most significant market risks include our exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risk.  We have prescribed risk management policies and limits established by our Asset/Liability Management Committee. Our objective is to manage our asset/liability risk position and exposure to market risk in accordance with these policies and prescribed limits based on prevailing market conditions and long term expectations. Because no single measure can reflect all aspects of market risk, we use various industry standard market risk measurement techniques and analyses to measure, assess and manage the impact of changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates on our earnings and the economic value of equity. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk, which represents exposure to instruments whose values vary with the level or volatility of interest rates, is our most significant market risk exposure. Banks are inevitably exposed to interest rate risk due to differences in the timing between the maturity or repricing of assets and liabilities. For example, if more assets are repricing than deposits and other borrowings when general interest rates are declining, our earnings will decrease initially. Similarly, if more deposits and other borrowings are repricing than assets when general interest rates are rising, our earnings will decrease initially. Interest rate risk also results from changes in customer behavior and competitors responses to changes in interest rates or other market conditions. For example, decreases in mortgage interest rates generally results in faster than expected prepayments, which may adversely affect earnings. Increases in interest rates, coupled with strong demand from competitors for deposits, may influence industry pricing. Such competition may affect customer decisions to maintain balances in the deposit accounts, which may require replacing lower cost deposits with higher cost alternative sources of funding. We employ several strategies to manage our interest rate risk, which include, but are not limited to, changing the maturity and re pricing characteristics of our various assets and liabilities and using interest rate derivatives. We consider the impact on both earnings and economic value of equity in measuring and managing our interest rate risk. Our earnings sensitivity measure estimates the impact on net interest income and the valuation of our mortgage servicing rights (net of derivatives) as a result of movements in interest rates. Our economic value of equity sensitivity measure estimates the impact on the net preset value of our assets and liabilities, including derivatives, as a result of movements in interest rates. Our earnings sensitivity and economic value of equity measurements are based on our existing assets and liabilities, including our derivatives, and do not incorporate business growth assumptions or projected plans for funding mix changes. However, we also assess the potential impact of growth assumptions, changing business activities, alternative interest rate scenarios and changing market environments, which we factor into our inter est rate risk management decisions. Under our current asset/liability management policy, we seek to limit the potential decrease in our projected net interest income resulting from a gradual plus or minus 200 basis point change in forward rates to less than 5% over the next 12 months. Our current asset/liability management policy also includes limiting the adverse change in the economic value of our equity due to an instantaneous parallel interest rate shock to spot rates of plus or minus 200 basis points to less than 12%. The federal funds rate remained at a target range of zero to 0.25% throughout 2010. Given the level of short term rates as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, a scenario where interest rates would decline by 200 basis points is not plausible. We therefore revised our customary declining interest rate scenario of 200 basis points to a 50 basis point decrease. Table 37 compares the estimated impact on net interest income and the economic value of equity of our selected hypothetical interest rate scenarios as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. All changes in income and value are measured as percentage changes from the projected net interest income and economic value of our equity at the base interest rate scenario. Our earnings and economic value sensitivity measures were low and within our prescribed asset/liability policy limits as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. 79 Table of Contents Table 37: Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis December 31, 2010 2009 Impact to projected base line net interest income: + 200 basis points(1) (0.7 )% (0.4 )% 50 basis points(1) (0.2 ) (0.1 ) Impact to economic value of equity: + 200 basis points(2) (3.8 )% (3.2 )% 50 basis points(2) 0.1 0.3 (1) These sensitivities include our net interest income and mortgage servicing rights valuation change (net of hedges). For net interest income, the rate scenarios are based on a hypothetical gradual increase in interest rates of 200 basis points and a hypothetical gradual decrease of 50 basis points to forward rates over the next 9 months. For the mortgage servicing rights valuation change (net of hedges), the rate scenarios are based on a hypothetical instantaneous parallel rate shock of plus 200 basis points and minus 50 basis points to spot rates. (2) Based on a hypothetical instantaneous parallel shift in the level of interest rates of plus 200 basis points and minus 50 basis points to spot rates. The interest rate risk models that we use in deriving these measures incorporate contractual information, internally developed assumptions and proprietary modeling methodologies, which project borrower and deposit behavior patterns in certain interest rate environments. Other market inputs, such as interest rates, market prices and interest rate volatility, are also critical components of our interest rate risk measures. We regularly evaluate, update and enhance these assumptions, models and analytical tools as we believe appropriate to reflect our best assessment of the market environment and the expected behavior patterns of our existing assets and liabilities. There are inherent limitations in any methodology used to estimate the exposure to changes in market interest rates. The above sensitivity analyses contemplate only certain movements in interest rates and are performed at a particular point in time based on the existing balance sheet, and do not incorporate other factors that may have a significant effect, most notably future business activities and strategic actions that management may take to manage interest rate risk. Actual earnings and economic value of equity could differ from the above sensitivity analyses. Foreign Exchange Risk We are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates, which may impact the earnings of our foreign operations. Our asset/liability management policy requires that we use derivatives to hedge material foreign currency denominated transactions to limit our earnings exposure to foreign exchange risk. The estimated reduction in our 12 month earnings due to adverse foreign exchange rate movements corresponding to a 95% probability was less than 2% as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. The precision of this estimate is limited due to the inherent uncertainty of the underlying forecast assumptions. Derivative Instruments Derivatives are one of the primary tools we use in managing interest rate and foreign exchange risk. We execute our derivative contracts in both over the counter and exchange traded derivative markets. Although the majority of our derivatives are interest rate swaps, we also use a variety of other derivative instruments, including caps, floors, options, futures and forward contracts, to manage our interest rate and foreign currency risk. The outstanding notional amount of our derivative contracts totaled $50.8 billion as of December 31, 2010, compared with $59.2 billion as of December 31, 2009. See Note 11Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities for additional information on our derivatives activity. 80 Table of Contents SUPPLEMENTAL STATISTICAL TABLES TABLE ASTATEMENTS OF AVERAGE BALANCES, INCOME AND EXPENSE, YIELDS AND RATES Table A presents average balance sheet data and an analysis of reported and managed net interest income, net interest spread (the difference between the yield on interest earning assets and the cost of interest bearing liabilities) and net interest margin for 2010, 2009 and 2008. Reported Basis Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009(1) 2008(1) (Dollars in millions) Average Balance Interest Income/ Expense(2) Yield/ Rate Average Balance Interest Income/ Expense(2) Yield/ Rate Average Balance Interest Income/ Expense(2) Yield/ Rate Assets: Interest earning assets: Consumer loans:(3) Domestic $ 91,451 $ 11,444 12.51 % $ 67,160 $ 6,889 10.26 % $ 66,811 $ 7,303 10.93 % International 7,499 1,212 16.16 2,613 348 13.31 3,446 445 12.90 Total consumer loans 98,950 12,656 12.79 69,773 7,237 10.37 70,257 7,748 11.03 Commercial loans 29,576 1,278 4.32 30,014 1,520 5.06 28,714 1,712 5.96 Total loans held for investment 128,526 13,934 10.84 99,787 8,757 8.78 98,971 9,460 9.56 Investment securities 39,489 1,342 3.40 36,910 1,610 4.36 25,043 1,224 4.89 Other interest earning assets: Domestic 7,129 75 1.05 7,489 290 3.87 8,030 407 5.06 International 586 2 0.34 1,107 7 0.64 1,040 21 2.05 Total other 7,715 77 1.00 8,596 297 3.46 $ 9,070 428 4.71 Total interest earning assets(4) $ 175,730 $ 15,353 8.74 % $ 145,293 $ 10,664 7.34 % $ 133,084 $ 11,112 8.35 % Cash and due from banks(4) 2,128 3,476 2,128 Allowance for loan and lease losses(4) (7,257 ) (4,470 ) (3,267 ) Premises and equipment, net(4) 2,718 2,718 2,318 Other assets 26,752 24,557 21,964 Total assets from discontinued operations 43 24 65 Total assets $ 200,114 $ 171,598 $ 156,292 Liabilities and Equity: Interest bearing liabilities: Deposits: Domestic $ 104,743 $ 1,465 1.40 % $ 102,337 $ 2,070 2.02 % $ 79,294 $ 2,422 3.06 % International(5) 741 23 3.10 3,442 90 2.60 Total deposits 104,743 1,465 1.40 103,078 2,093 2.03 82,736 2,512 3.04 Securitized debt: Domestic 29,275 686 2.34 5,516 282 5.11 10,010 550 5.49 International 4,910 123 2.51 Total securitized debt 34,185 809 2.37 5,516 282 5.11 10,010 550 5.49 Senior and subordinated notes 8,571 276 3.22 8,607 260 3.02 8,881 445 5.01 Other borrowings: Domestic 5,082 333 6.55 7,941 321 4.04 11,166 444 3.98 International 1,772 13 0.73 1,441 11 0.76 1,039 12 1.15 Total other borrowings 6,854 346 5.05 9,382 332 3.54 12,205 456 3.74 Total interest bearing liabilities(4) $ 154,353 $ 2,896 1.88 % $ 126,583 $ 2,967 2.34 % $ 113,832 $ 3,963 3.48 % Non interest bearing deposits(4) 14,267 12,523 10,772 Other liabilities(4) 6,105 5,737 6,261 Total liabilities from discontinued operations 448 149 149 Total liabilities 175,173 144,992 131,014 Stockholders equity(6) 24,941 26,606 25,278 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 200,114 $ 171,598 $ 156,292 Net interest income/spread $ 12,457 6.86 % $ 7,697 5.00 % $ 7,149 4.87 % Interest income to average earning assets 8.74 % 7.34 % 8.35 % Interest expense to average earning assets 1.65 2.04 2.97 Net interest margin 7.09 % 5.30 % 5.38 % 81 Table of Contents (1) Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. (2) Past due fees included in interest income totaled approximately $1.1 billion, $652 million and $695 million on a reported basis for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (3) Interest income on credit card, auto, home and retail banking loans is reflected in consumer loans. Interest income generated from small business credit cards also is included in consumer loans. (4) Based on continuing operations. (5) The U.K. deposit business, which was included in international deposits, was sold during the third quarter of 2009. (6) Includes a reduction of $2.9 billion recorded on January 1, 2010, in conjunction with the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance. 82 Table of Contents Managed Basis Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009(1) 2008(1) (Dollars in millions) Average Balance Interest Income/ Expense(2) Yield/ Rate Average Balance Interest Income/ Expense(2) Yield/ Rate Average Balance Interest Income/ Expense(2) Yield/ Rate Assets: Interest earning assets: Consumer loans:(3) Domestic $ 91,547 $ 11,452 12.51 % $ 105,095 $ 11,766 11.20 % $ 108,527 $ 12,828 11.82 % International 7,499 1,212 16.16 8,405 1,149 13.67 10,571 1,488 14.08 Total consumer loans 99,046 12,664 12.79 113,500 12,915 11.38 119,098 14,316 12.02 Commercial loans 29,576 1,278 4.32 30,014 1,520 5.06 28,714 1,712 5.96 Total loans held for investment 128,622 13,942 10.84 143,514 14,435 10.06 147,812 16,028 10.84 Investment securities 39,489 1,342 3.40 36,910 1,610 4.36 25,043 1,224 4.89 Other interest earning assets: Domestic 7,107 75 1.06 4,938 65 1.32 5,826 169 2.88 International 586 2 0.34 614 3 0.49 667 30 4.50 Total other 7,693 77 1.00 5,552 68 1.23 6,493 199 3.05 Total interest earning assets(4) $ 175,804 $ 15,361 8.74 % $ 185,976 $ 16,113 8.66 % $ 179,348 $ 17,451 9.73 % Cash and due from banks(4) 2,128 3,476 2,128 Allowance for loan and lease losses(4) (7,257 ) (4,470 ) (3,267 ) Premises and equipment, net(4) 2,718 2,718 2,318 Other assets 26,749 24,934 22,938 Total assets from discontinued operations 43 24 65 Total assets $ 200,185 $ 212,658 $ 203,530 Liabilities and Equity: Interest bearing liabilities: Deposits: Domestic $ 104,743 $ 1,465 1.40 % $ 102,337 $ 2,070 2.02 % $ 81,019 $ 2,422 2.99 % International(5) 741 23 3.10 1,717 90 5.24 Total deposits 104,743 1,465 1.40 103,078 2,093 2.03 82,736 2,512 3.04 Securitized debt: Domestic 29,354 690 2.35 40,931 1,191 2.91 50,579 2,234 4.42 International 4,910 123 2.51 5,686 148 2.60 6,991 382 5.46 Total securitized debt 34,264 813 2.37 46,617 1,339 2.87 57,570 2,616 4.54 Senior and subordinated notes 8,571 276 3.22 8,607 260 3.02 8,881 445 5.01 Other borrowings: Domestic 5,082 333 6.55 7,941 321 4.04 11,166 444 3.98 International 1,772 13 0.73 1,441 11 0.76 1,039 12 1.15 Total other borrowings 6,854 346 5.05 9,382 332 3.54 12,205 456 3.74 Total interest bearing liabilities(4) $ 154,432 $ 2,900 1.88 % $ 167,684 $ 4,024 2.40 % $ 161,392 $ 6,029 3.74 % Non interest bearing deposits(4) 14,267 12,523 10,772 Other liabilities(4) 6,097 5,696 5,939 Total liabilities from discontinued operations 448 149 149 Total liabilities 175,244 186,052 178,252 Stockholders equity(6) 24,941 26,606 25,278 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 200,185 $ 212,658 $ 203,530 Net interest income/spread $ 12,461 6.86 % $ 12,089 6.26 % $ 11,422 5.99 % Interest income to average earning assets 8.74 % 8.66 % 9.73 % Interest expense to average earning assets 1.65 2.16 3.36 Net interest margin 7.09 % 6.50 % 6.37 % (1) Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Effective February 27, 2009, we acquired Chevy Chase Bank. Accordingly, our results for the first nine months of 2009 include only a partial impact from Chevy Chase Bank. (2) Past due fees included in interest income totaled approximately $1.1billion, $1.4 billion and $1.6 billion on a managed basis for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (3) Interest income on credit card, auto, home and retail banking loans is reflected in consumer loans. Interest income generated from small business credit cards also is included in consumer loans. (4) Based on continuing operations. (5) The U.K. deposit business, which was included in international deposits, was sold during the third quarter of 2009. (6) Includes a reduction of $2.9 billion recorded in January 1, 2010, in conjunction with the adoption of the new consolidation accounting guidance. 83 Table of Contents TABLE BLOAN PORTFOLIO COMPOSITION December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Reported loans held for investment: Credit Card business: Credit card loans: Domestic credit card loans $ 50,170 $ 13,374 $ 20,624 $ 17,447 $ 20,211 International credit card loans 7,513 2,229 2,872 3,657 3,207 Total credit card loans 57,683 15,603 23,496 21,104 23,418 Installment loans: Domestic installment loans 3,679 6,693 10,131 10,474 7,381 International installment loans 9 44 119 355 638 Total installment loans 3,688 6,737 10,250 10,829 8,019 Total credit card business 61,371 22,340 33,746 31,933 31,437 Consumer Banking business: Automobile 17,867 18,186 21,495 25,018 21,283 Home loans 12,103 14,893 10,098 11,562 3,419 Retail banking 4,413 5,135 5,604 5,659 4,482 Total consumer banking business 34,383 38,214 37,197 42,239 29,184 Total consumer loans 95,754 60,554 70,943 74,172 60,621 Commercial Banking business: Commercial and multifamily real estate 13,396 13,843 13,303 12,414 891 Middle market 10,484 10,062 10,082 8,289 3,525 Specialty lending 4,020 3,555 3,547 2,948 Total commercial lending 27,900 27,460 26,932 23,651 4,416 Small ticket commercial real estate 1,842 2,153 2,609 3,396 Total commercial banking business 29,742 29,613 29,541 27,047 4,416 Other: Other loans(1) 451 452 534 586 31,475 Total reported loans held for investment $ 125,947 $ 90,619 $ 101,018 $ 101,805 $ 96,512 Securitization adjustments: Credit Card business: Credit card loans: Domestic credit card loans $ $ 39,827 $ 39,254 $ 39,833 $ 38,365 International credit card loans 5,951 5,729 7,645 7,906 Total credit card loans 45,778 44,983 47,478 46,271 Installment loans: Domestic installment loans 406 936 1,969 2,899 Consumer Banking business: Automobile 110 469 Total consumer banking business 110 469 Total securitization adjustments $ $ 46,184 $ 45,919 $ 49,557 $ 49,639 Managed loans held for investment: Credit Card business: Credit card loans: Domestic credit card loans $ 50,170 $ 53,201 $ 59,878 $ 57,280 $ 58,576 International credit card loans 7,513 8,180 8,601 11,302 11,113 Total credit card loans 57,683 61,381 68,479 68,582 69,689 Installment loans: Domestic installment loans 3,679 7,099 11,067 12,443 10,280 International installment loans 9 44 119 355 638 Total installment loans 3,688 7,143 11,186 12,798 10,918 Total credit card business 61,371 68,524 79,665 81,380 80,607 84 Table of Contents December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Reported loans held for investment: Consumer Banking business: Automobile 17,867 18,186 21,495 25,128 21,752 Home loan 12,103 14,893 10,098 11,562 3,419 Retail banking 4,413 5,135 5,604 5,659 4,482 Total consumer banking business 34,383 38,214 37,197 42,349 29,653 Total consumer loans 95,754 106,738 116,862 123,729 110,260 Commercial Banking business: Commercial and multifamily real estate 13,396 13,843 13,303 12,414 891 Middle market 10,484 10,062 10,082 8,289 3,525 Specialty lending 4,020 3,555 3,547 2,948 Total commercial lending 27,900 27,460 26,932 23,651 4,416 Small ticket commercial real estate 1,842 2,153 2,609 3,396 Total commercial banking business 29,742 29,613 29,541 27,047 4,416 Other: Other loans(1) 451 452 534 586 31,475 Total managed loans held for investment $ 125,947 $ 136,803 $ 146,937 $ 151,362 $ 146,151 (1) Includes the North Fork Bank acquisition in 2006, which were allocated to the appropriate loan categories in subsequent years. 85 Table of Contents TABLE CDELINQUENCIES December 31, 2010(2) 2009(2) 2008 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) Loans % of Total Loans Loans % of Total Loans Loans % of Total Loans Loans % of Total Loans Loans % of Total Loans Reported:(1) Loans held for investment $ 125,947 100.00 % $ 90,619 100.00 % $ 101,018 100.00 % $ 101,805 100.00 % $ 96,512 100.00 % Delinquent loans: 30 59 days $ 1,968 1.56 % $ 1,908 2.10 % $ 2,325 2.30 % $ 2,052 2.02 % $ 1,512 1.57 % 60 89 days 1,064 0.84 985 1.09 1,094 1.08 869 0.86 563 0.58 90 119 days 559 0.44 356 0.39 410 0.41 290 0.28 210 0.22 120 149 days 446 0.35 190 0.21 230 0.23 195 0.19 167 0.17 150 or more days 393 0.31 164 0.18 194 0.19 155 0.15 114 0.12 Total $ 4,430 3.52 % $ 3,603 3.98 % $ 4,253 4.21 % $ 3,561 3.50 % $ 2,566 2.66 % By geographic area: Domestic $ 3,998 3.38 % $ 3,460 3.82 % $ 4,107 4.07 % $ 3,433 3.37 % $ 2,461 2.55 % International 432 5.75 143 6.28 146 4.89 128 3.20 105 2.74 Total $ 4,430 3.52 % $ 3,603 3.98 % $ 4,253 4.21 % $ 3,561 3.50 % $ 2,566 2.66 % Managed:(1) Loans held for investment $ 125,947 100.00 % $ 136,803 100.00 % $ 146,937 100.00 % $ 151,362 100.00 % $ 146,151 100.00 % Delinquent loans: 30 59 days $ 1,968 1.56 % $ 2,623 1.92 % $ 2,987 2.03 % $ 2,738 1.81 % $ 2,130 1.46 % 60 89 days 1,064 0.84 1,576 1.15 1,582 1.08 1,343 0.89 946 0.65 90 119 days 559 0.44 895 0.65 817 0.60 681 0.45 521 0.41 120 149 days 446 0.35 660 0.48 569 0.39 513 0.34 412 0.28 150 or more days 393 0.31 568 0.42 476 0.32 429 0.28 323 0.22 Total $ 4,430 3.52 % $ 6,322 4.62 % $ 6,431 4.38 % $ 5,704 3.77 % $ 4,332 2.96 % By geographic area: Domestic $ 3,998 3.38 % $ 5,783 4.23 % $ 5,915 4.03 % $ 5,112 3.34 % $ 3,743 3.18 % International 432 5.75 539 6.55 516 5.92 592 5.08 589 5.02 Total $ 4,430 3.52 % $ 6,322 4.62 % $ 6,431 4.38 % $ 5,704 3.77 % $ 4,332 2.96 % (1) Includes credit card loans that continue to accrue finance charges and fees until charged off at 180 days. The amounts reported for credit card loans are net of billed finance charges and fees that we do not expect to collect. In accordance with our finance charge and fee revenue recognition policy, amounts billed but not included in revenue totaled $950 million, $2.1 billion, $1.9 billion, $1.1 billion and $0.9 billion in 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. (2) The Chevy Chase Bank acquired loan portfolio is included in loans held for investment, but excluded from delinquent loans as these loans are considered performing in accordance with our expectations as of the purchase date, as we recorded these loans at estimated fair value when we acquired them. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the acquired loan portfolios contractual 30 to 89 day delinquencies total $199 million and $294 million, respectively. For loans 90+ days past due, see Table DNonperforming Assets. 86 Table of Contents TABLE DNONPERFORMING ASSETS December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Nonperforming loans held for investment: (1) (2) Consumer Banking business: Automobile $ 99 $ 143 $ 165 $ 157 $ 87 Home loan 486 323 104 98 55 Retail banking(3) 145 121 150 58 Total consumer banking business 730 587 419 313 142 Commercial Banking business: Commercial and multifamily real estate 276 429 142 29 14 Middle market 133 104 39 29 11 Specialty lending 48 74 37 6 Total commercial lending 457 607 218 64 25 Small ticket commercial real estate 38 95 167 16 Total commercial banking business 495 702 385 80 25 Total nonperforming loans held for investment 1,225 1,289 804 393 167 Other nonperforming assets: Foreclosed property(4) 306 234 89 48 16 Repossessed assets 20 24 66 57 31 Total nonperforming assets $ 1,551 $ 1,547 $ 959 $ 498 $ 214 Nonperforming loans as a percentage of loans held for investment(2) 0.97 % 0.94 % 0.80 % 0.39 % 0.17 % Nonperforming assets as a percentage of loans held for investment plus total other nonperforming assets(2) 1.23 % 1.13 % 0.95 % 0.49 % 0.22 % (1) The ratio of nonperforming loans as a percentage of total loans held for investment is calculated based on the nonperforming loans in each loan category divided by the total outstanding unpaid principal balance of loans held for investment in each loan category. The denominator used in calculating the nonperforming asset ratios consists of total loans held for investment and other nonperforming assets. (2) Our calculation of nonperforming loan and asset ratios includes the impact of loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank. However, we do not report loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank as nonperforming unless they do not perform in accordance with our expectations as of the purchase date, as we recorded these loans at estimated fair value when we acquired them. The nonperforming loan ratios, excluding the impact of loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank, for commercial and multifamily real estate, middle market, total commercial banking, home loans, retail banking, total consumer banking, and total nonperforming loans held for investment were 2.11%, 1.30%, 1.69%, 6.67%, 2.16%, 2.30% and 1.02%, respectively, as of December 31, 2010, compared with 3.18%, 1.07%, 2.43%, 3.75%, 1.78%, 1.75%, and 0.99%, respectively, as of December 31, 2009. The nonperforming asset ratio, excluding loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank, was 1.29% and 1.19% as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (3) Other loans are included in retail banking for all years presented. (4) Includes $201 million and $154 million of foreclosed properties related to loans acquired from Chevy Chase Bank, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 87 Table of Contents TABLE ENET CHARGE OFFS(1) Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Reported: Average loans held for investment(2) $ 128,526 $ 99,787 $ 98,971 $ 93,542 $ 63,577 Net charge offs 6,651 4,568 3,478 1,961 1,407 Net charge offs rate(3) 5.18 % 4.58 % 3.51 % 2.10 % 2.21 % Managed: Average loans held for investment(2) $ 128,622 $ 143,514 $ 147,812 $ 144,727 $ 111,329 Net charge offs 6,657 8,421 6,425 4,162 3,158 Net charge off rate(3) 5.18 % 5.87 % 4.35 % 2.88 % 2.84 % (1) Net charge offs reflect charge offs, net of recoveries, related to our total loan portfolio, which we previously referred to as our managed loan portfolio. The total loan portfolio includes loans recorded on our balance sheet and loans held in our securitization trusts. (2) The average balances of the acquired Chevy Chase Bank loan portfolio, which are included in the total average loans held for investment used in calculating the net charge off rates, were $6.3 billion and $6.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (3) Calculated for each loan category by dividing annualized net charge offs for the period divided by average loans held for investment during the period. 88 Table of Contents TABLE FSUMMARY OF ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN AND LEASE LOSSES December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Balance at beginning of period, as reported $ 4,127 $ 4,524 $ 2,963 $ 2,180 $ 1,790 Impact from January 1, 2010 adoption of new consolidation accounting standards 4,317 (1) Balance at beginning of period, as adjusted $ 8,444 $ 4,524 $ 2,963 $ 2,180 $ 1,790 Provision for loan and lease losses 3,907 4,230 5,101 2,717 1,477 Charge offs: Domestic credit card and installment (6,020 ) (3,050 ) (2,244 ) (1,315 ) (1,576 ) International credit card and installment (761 ) (284 ) (255 ) (253 ) (249 ) Consumer banking (898 ) (1,357 ) (1,396 ) (965 ) (93 ) Commercial banking (444 ) (444 ) (87 ) (17 ) (5 ) Other loans (115 ) (207 ) (169 ) (31 ) (9 ) Total charge offs (8,238 ) (5,342 ) (4,151 ) (2,581 ) (1,932 ) Recoveries: Domestic credit card and installment 1,113 447 425 393 450 International credit card and installment 169 52 65 72 68 Consumer banking 243 263 178 151 27 Commercial banking 54 10 4 4 Other loans 8 2 1 2 Total recoveries 1,587 774 673 620 547 Net charge offs (6,651 ) (4,568 ) (3,478 ) (1,961 ) (1,385 ) Impact from acquisitions, sales and other changes(2) (72 ) (59 ) (62 ) 27 298 Balance at end of period $ 5,628 $ 4,127 $ 4,524 $ 2,963 $ 2,180 Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of loans held for investment 4.47 % 4.55 % 4.48 % 2.91 % 2.26 % Allowance for loan and lease losses by geographic distribution: Domestic $ 5,168 $ 3,928 $ 4,331 $ 2,754 $ 1,950 International 460 199 193 209 230 Total $ 5,628 $ 4,127 $ 4,524 $ 2,963 $ 2,180 Allowance for loan and lease losses by loan category: Domestic card $ 3,581 $ 1,927 $ 2,544 $ 1,429 $ 1,065 International card 460 199 193 209 230 Consumer banking 675 1,076 1,314 1,005 631 Commercial banking 826 785 301 153 32 Other (3) 86 140 172 167 222 Total $ 5,628 $ 4,127 $ 4,524 $ 2,963 $ 2,180 (1) Includes an adjustment of $53 million made in the second quarter of 2010 for the impact as of January 1, 2010 of impairment on consolidated loans accounted for as TDRs. (2) Includes a reduction in our allowance for loan and lease losses of $73 million during the first quarter of 2010 attributable to the sale of certain interest only option ARM bonds and the deconsolidation of the related securitization trusts related to Chevy Chase Bank in the first quarter of 2010. (3) Includes the North Fork Bank acquisition in 2006, which were allocated to the appropriate loan categories in subsequent years. 89 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk For a discussion of the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, see MD&AMarket Risk Management. 
 
