FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20040819163306.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On August 19, 2004, salesforce.com, inc. issued a press release announcing the results for its fiscal second quarter ended July 31, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information in this current report on Form 8-K and the exhibits attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: August 19, 2004
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM), the market and technology leader in on demand customer relationship management, today announced results for its second fiscal quarter, ended July 31, 2004.
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif.  August 19, 2004 
 
"We are delighted to have delivered strong results during a difficult period for the software industry," said Marc Benioff, chairman and CEO of salesforce.com. "Our numbers speak for the growing acceptance of the on demand computing model."
 
Salesforce.com delivered the following results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2005:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Salesforce.com is raising its guidance for the fiscal year 2005, ending January 31, 2005, based on information as of August 19, 2004:
 
 
 
Salesforce.com also expects revenue for its third quarter of fiscal year 2005 to be in the range of $43.0 million to $45.0 million.
 
Quarterly Conference Call
 
Salesforce.com will host a conference call to discuss second quarter results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time today. A live audio webcast of the conference call, together with detailed financial information, can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations Web site at http://www.salesforce.com/investor. In addition, an archive of the webcast can be accessed through the same link until midnight on August 30, 2004. Participants who choose to call in to the conference call can do so by dialing (800) 310-6649 or (719) 457-2693. A replay will be available until midnight on August 23, 2004 and can be accessed by dialing (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820, access code 365871.
 
About salesforce.com
 
Salesforce.com is the market and technology leader in on demand customer relationship management (CRM). Through its award-winning salesforce.com family of products, the company provides a comprehensive suite of CRM services to help enterprises of all size, industries and geographies meet the complex challenge of managing customer information. Salesforce.com also offers sforce, the salesforce.com client/service platform, to allow customers and independent software vendors to customize and integrate salesforce.com, as well as build their own on demand enterprise applications. As of July 31, 2004, salesforce.com manages customer information for approximately 11,100 customers and approximately 168,000 paying subscribers including Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), America Online (AOL), Automatic Data Processing (ADP), Avis/Budget Rent A Car (Cendant Rental Car Group), Dow Jones Newswires, Polycom and SunTrust Banks. Salesforce.com is headquartered in San Francisco, with offices in Europe and Asia, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CRM". For more information please visit http://www.salesforce.com or call 1-800-NO-SOFTWARE.
 
 
Salesforce.com is a registered trademark of salesforce.com, inc., San Francisco, California. Other names used may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
"Safe harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This press release contains forward-looking statements about expected revenue and earnings that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If any such uncertainties materialize or if any of the assumptions proves incorrect, our results could differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements we make.
 
The risks and uncertainties referred to above include - but are not limited to - risks associated with our new business model, our history of operating losses, possible fluctuations in our operating results and rate of growth, interruptions or delays in our Web hosting, breach of our security measures, the immature market in which we operate, our relatively limited operating history, our ability to expand, retain and motivate our employees and manage our growth, competition, new releases of our service and successful customer deployment and utilization and selling to larger enterprise customers. Further information on these and other factors that could affect our financial results is included in our registration statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on June 22, 2004 and in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents are available on the SEC Filings section of the Investor Information section of our website at www.salesforce.com/investor.
 
Salesforce.com, inc. assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
(in thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
As a percentage of total revenues:
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(in thousands)
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Additional Metrics
 
 
 
The July 31, 2004 paying subscriber metrics do not include the 20,000 subscriptions to a national professional organization since these subscriptions were priced at a nominal fee per subscription per month and provide limited rights to access and use certain features in the Company's on-demand application service. The Company believes that excluding the 20,000 subscriptions provides a more accurate representation of its numbers.
 
Also, the July 31, 2004 number excludes approximately 2,000 paying subscribers who are using the Company's service, but for which the Company has delayed revenue recognition until specific new technology is completed.
 


