FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20051011170943.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On October 6, 2005, in connection with the appointment of Mr. Craig A. Conway to the Board of Directors of salesforce.com, inc. (the "Company"), Mr. Conway was granted an option to purchase 50,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock pursuant to the terms of the Company's 2004 Outside Directors Stock Plan. Details regarding this option and other compensation related to Mr. Conway's board service are set forth in the Company's 2005 Proxy Statement under the subheading "Compensation of Directors."
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On October 6, 2005, the Company's Board of Directors appointed Mr. Craig A. Conway to serve as a Class I member of the Company's Board of Directors, with a term expiring at the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders. Mr. Conway was appointed on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. The Board of Directors determined that Mr. Conway has no material relationship with the Company and is otherwise independent in accordance with the applicable listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Conway has not been named to any board committees at this time.
 
A copy of the Company's October 6, 2005 press release announcing Mr. Conway's appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Salesforce.com Appoints Craig Conway to Board Of Directors
 
SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 6 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/  Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM), the market and technology leader in on-demand customer relationship management, today announced the appointment of Craig Conway to the Company's Board of Directors, effective immediately. Mr. Conway has been added to the class of directors whose term will expire at the 2008 Annual Meeting.
 
"We are delighted that Craig is joining the board," said Marc Benioff, chairman and CEO of salesforce.com. "Craig is a seasoned executive who brings a wealth of industry and business knowledge that will benefit salesforce.com as we continue to redefine the CRM marketplace with the industry's only complete on-demand platform. Craig's strong operational credentials will be valuable a contribution to our company and we look forward to his guidance and counsel."
 
The salesforce.com board voted to add Mr. Conway to the board, bringing board membership to seven members, and bringing the number of independent directors on the board to six.
 
About Craig Conway
 
Mr. Craig Conway has been recognized as one of the Top 25 Managers by BusinessWeek magazine, Ten Most Influential People in High Technology by Computer Business Review, and Fifty Most Powerful People in Networking by NetworkWorld magazine.
 
As President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Conway has led several technology companies to success including most recently PeopleSoft. Under his leadership PeopleSoft became the second largest provider of enterprise business software with more than 12,000 customers in 150 countries. Fortune magazine named PeopleSoft the Second Most Admired Company in America in 2002.
 
Previously, Mr. Conway has served as President and CEO of TGV Software and One Touch Systems. He has also held executive management positions at a variety of leading technology companies including Executive Vice President at Oracle Corporation. Mr. Conway is a graduate of the State University of New York at Brockport where he received degrees in mathematics and computer science. He has been married for 25 years and has two children.
 
About salesforce.com
 
Salesforce.com is the market and technology leader in on-demand customer relationship management (CRM). The company's Salesforce family of on-demand applications enables customers to manage and share all of their sales, support, marketing and partner information on demand. Appforce, salesforce.com's on-demand platform, allows customers to customize and integrate the Salesforce family to meet their unique business needs, and build whole new powerful applications quickly and easily. Appforce applications are available via AppExchange, salesforce.com's on-demand application sharing service. Customers can also take advantage of salesforce.com's world-class training, support, consulting and best practices offerings.
 
As of July 31, 2005, salesforce.com manages customer information for approximately 16,900 customers and approximately 308,000 paying subscribers including Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), America Online (AOL), Automatic Data Processing (ADP), Avis/Budget Rent A Car (Cendant Rental Car Group), Dow Jones Newswires, Nokia, Polycom and SunTrust. Any unreleased services or features referenced in this or other press releases or public statements are not currently available and may not be delivered on time or at all. Customers who purchase salesforce.com services should make their purchase decisions based upon features that are currently available. Salesforce.com has headquarters in San Francisco, with offices in Europe and Asia, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CRM". For more information please visit http://www.salesforce.com, or call 1-800-NO-SOFTWARE.
Salesforce.com is a registered trademark of, and Appforce and AppExchange are trademarks of, salesforce.com, Inc., San Francisco, California. Other names used may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
SOURCE salesforce.com
10/06/2005
CONTACT: Bruce Francis, Vice President, Corporate Communications, of salesforce.com, +1-415-536 6972
Photo: http://www.newscom.com/cgi-bin/prnh/20050216/SFW105LOGO
AP Archive: http://photoarchive.ap.org
PRN Photo Desk photodesk@prnewswire.com
Web site: http://www.salesforce.com
(CRM)
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this press release regarding salesforce.com's business which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report or Form 10-K for the most recently ended fiscal year.


