FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20051028164906.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On October 25, 2005, in connection with the appointment of Ms. Shirley Young to the Board of Directors of salesforce.com, inc. (the "Company"), Ms. Young was granted an option to purchase 50,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock pursuant to the terms of the Company's 2004 Outside Directors Stock Plan. Details regarding this option and other compensation related to Ms. Young's board service are set forth in the Company's 2005 Proxy Statement under the subheading "Compensation of Directors."
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On October 25, 2005, the Company's Board of Directors appointed Ms. Shirley Young to serve as a Class III member of the Company's Board of Directors, with a term expiring at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, and increased the size of the Board of Directors from seven (7) to eight (8) directors. Ms. Young was appointed on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. The Board of Directors determined that Ms. Young has no material relationship with the Company and is otherwise independent in accordance with the applicable listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Ms. Young has not been named to any board committees at this time.
 
A copy of the Company's October 26, 2005 press release announcing Ms. Young's appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Salesforce.com Appoints Shirley Young to Board of Directors
 
SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 26 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/  Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM), the market and technology leader in on-demand customer relationship management, today announced the appointment of Shirley Young to the Company's Board of Directors, effective October 25th. Ms. Young has been added to the class of directors whose term will expire at the 2007 Annual Meeting.
 
"We are very pleased that Shirley has accepted the Company's invitation to join the board as a new independent director," said Marc Benioff, chairman and CEO of salesforce.com. "Shirley's impressive strategic marketing and international experience, particularly in the Asian market, will add tremendous value to our company."
 
Ms. Young brings the total board membership to eight and the number of independent directors on the board to seven.
 
About Shirley Young
 
Shirley Young is president of Shirley Young Associates, LLC, a business advisory company. Previously, Ms. Young served as corporate vice president of General Motors, involved in development of GM's $1.5 billion joint venture in Shanghai and then as senior advisor to General Motors Asia Pacific. Her most recent assignment as Vice President for China Strategic Development and Asia Pacific Counselor included operational responsibility for marketing, distribution and sales in China. Prior to that, she spent over 20 years at Grey Advertising working in a wide range of industries with many of the world's leading marketers.
 
Ms. Young is currently a director of Teletech Holding, Inc. and has served as a director of the Bank of America, Bell Atlantic/Verizon, Dayton-Hudson, Holiday Inn/Promus/Harrah's, the Bombay Company and as vice chairman of the nominating committee of the New York Stock Exchange. She also currently serves on the worldwide board of directors of The Nature Conservancy and its Asia Pacific Council and as Governor of the Committee of 100 and Chair of its Cultural Institute.
 
About salesforce.com
 
Salesforce.com is the market and technology leader in on-demand customer relationship management (CRM). Through its award-winning salesforce.com family of products including Salesforce.com ( http://www.salesforce.com ) and Supportforce.com ( http://www.supportforce.com ), the company provides a comprehensive suite of CRM applications to help enterprises of all sizes, industries and geographies meet the complex challenge of sharing and managing information on-demand. Salesforce.com and Supportforce.com are built on the sforce client/service integration platform and include the Customforce.com toolkit for complete on-demand customization. Sforce ( http://www.sforce.com ) and Customforce.com ( http://www.customforce.com ) allow customers and independent software vendors to customize and integrate salesforce.com's products, as well as build their own on-demand enterprise applications. As of October 31, 2004, salesforce.com manages customer information for approximately 12,500 customers and approximately 195,000 paying subscribers including Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), America Online (AOL), Automatic Data Processing (ADP), Avis/Budget Rent A Car (Cendant Rental Car Group), Dow Jones Newswires, Nokia, Polycom and SunTrust Banks. Salesforce.com has headquarters in San Francisco, with offices in Europe and Asia, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CRM". For more information please visit http://www.salesforce.com , or call 1-800-NO-SOFTWARE.
NOTE: Salesforce.com is a registered trademark of salesforce.com, inc., San Francisco, California. Other names used may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
SOURCE Salesforce.com
10/26/2005
CONTACT: Bruce Francis of salesforce.com, +1-415-536-6972
Photo: NewsCom: http://www.newscom.com/cgi-bin/prnh/20050216/SFW105LOGO
AP Archive: http://photoarchive.ap.org
PRN Photo Desk photodesk@prnewswire.com
Web site: http://www.salesforce.com
(CRM)
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this press release regarding salesforce.com's business which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report or Form 10-K for the most recently ended fiscal year.


