FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20050927171709.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On September 21, 2005, Mr. John Freeland accepted an offer of employment from salesforce.com, inc. (the "Registrant") to serve as the Registrant's President, Worldwide Operations. Under the terms of his Offer Letter, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report, Mr. Freeland will receive an annual base salary of $300,000 and be eligible to receive a fiscal year end bonus of up to 100% of his annual base salary with payout based on certain performance criteria. During the first twelve months of Mr. Freeland's employment, his bonus will be guaranteed and paid in quarterly installments. He will also receive an option grant to purchase 300,000 shares of the Registrant's Common Stock, subject to certain vesting requirements. The Registrant shall reimburse Mr. Freeland up to $75,000 per year in reasonable out-of-pocket travel and living expenses. If Mr. Freeland is terminated without cause or if Mr. Freeland terminates his employment for certain reasons during the twelve month period following any change of control of the Registrant, he will receive six months of accelerated vesting of his initial option grant. If Mr. Freeland is terminated without cause during the first twelve months of his employment, he will receive six months base salary, six months of accelerated vesting of his initial option grant, and certain other compensation.
 
Item 8.01  Other Events.
 
On September 22, 2005, the Registrant issued a press release announcing that Mr. Freeland will join the Registrant's senior management team as President, Worldwide Operations. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
[Salesforce.com logo]
 
September 16, 2005
 
Mr. John G. Freeland
 
Re: Offer of Employment
 
Dear John,
 
I am pleased to offer you a position with Salesforce.com, Inc. (the "Company") as President of Worldwide Operations reporting to Marc Benioff, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. If you decide to join us, you will receive an annual base salary of $300,000, less applicable withholding, which will be paid semi-monthly in accordance with the Company's normal payroll procedures. In addition, you will be eligible to receive a bonus of up to 100% of your base salary with payout based on your individual performance, Company performance and a corporate matrix of revenue and operating margin. The bonus is typically paid after fiscal year-end and you must be employed at the time of payout to receive the bonus. However, for the first twelve months of your employment, your bonus will be guaranteed and paid in quarterly installments.
 
Subject to Board approval, you will be granted an option to acquire 300,000 shares of Common Stock, vesting over four years, with
 1
/
4
at the end of one year, and 1/48th monthly thereafter for three years or so long as your employment with the Company continues, whichever period is shorter. The exercise price will be equal to the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by the Board on the fourth Tuesday of the month that you join us.
 
The Company believes that an important component of your position is the capacity to apply direct, hands-on leadership to our Services and related functions and, therefore, we require that you be present in the San Francisco headquarters for at least an average of two weeks per month. We agree to reimburse you for up to $75,000 per year in reasonable out-of-pocket expenses associated with travel, lodging, and meals related to this requirement.
 
As a Company employee, you are also eligible to receive certain employee benefits. The Company reserves the right to change the benefits and compensation programs at any time.
 
If you choose to accept this offer, your employment with the Company will be voluntarily entered into and will be for no specified period. As a result, you will be free to resign at any time, for any reason or for no reason, as you deem appropriate. The Company will have a similar right and may conclude its employment relationship with you at any time, with or without cause.
The Executive Team is in the process of reviewing its policies on change of control and executive agreements, and to the extent the Board chooses to modify these benefits to senior management, you will be treated in the same manner as the other executive officers. However, if you are terminated without cause or if you terminate your employment for certain reasons including changes in job responsibilities, geographic relocation or a change in reporting status during the twelve (12) month period following any change of control of the Company, you will receive six (6) months of accelerated vesting of your original stock option grant. If you are terminated without cause during the first twelve (12) months of your employment with the Company, you will receive six (6) months of your base salary and accelerated vesting of six (6) months of your original stock option grant or vesting on a monthly basis until the termination date, whichever is greater, and the Company will pay your COBRA premiums for six (6) months.
 
We understand and acknowledge that you are required to comply with the terms of your agreement with your prior employer. If you are unable to continue working for the Company as a result of any lawsuit or action taken by your prior employer, the Company will not be obligated to make any severance payments pursuant to this letter or otherwise.
 
For purposes of federal immigration law, you will be required to provide the Company with documentary evidence of your identity and eligibility for employment in the United States. Such documentation must be provided to us within three (3) business days of your hire date, or our employment with you may be terminated.
 
This offer letter fully sets forth all of your compensation information and expectations, and you agree that in making your decision to join the Company you are not relying on any oral or other representations concerning any other compensation or consideration for the duration of your employment with the Company, including but not limited to any value associated with your stock options.
 
In the event of any dispute or claim relating to or arising out of our employment relationship, this agreement, or the termination of our employment relationship (including, but not limited to, any claims of wrongful termination or age, sex, disability, race or other discrimination), you and the Company agree that all such disputes shall be fully, finally and exclusively resolved in an appropriate municipal, state or federal court, and you and the Company each waive the right to a jury trial in any such litigation as set forth in the attached Jury Trial Waiver Agreement.
 
To indicate your acceptance of the Company's offer, please sign and date this letter in the space provided below and return it to me. A duplicate original is enclosed for your records. You will be required to sign an Employee Inventions and Proprietary Rights Assignment Agreement as a condition of your employment.
 
This letter, along with any agreements relating to proprietary rights between you and the Company, set forth the terms of your employment with the Company and supersede any prior representations or agreements, whether written or oral. This letter may not be modified or amended except by a written agreement, signed by the Company and by you.
 
We look forward to working with you at Salesforce.com. Welcome aboard.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
John Freeland to Join Salesforce.com as President, Worldwide Operations
 
- Leading CRM expert deepens the salesforce.com management team with more than a quarter century of enterprise experience - A major advantage for enterprise customers at a time of seismic shifts in the CRM landscape
 
SAN FRANCISCO, Sept 22, 2005 /PRNewswire-FirstCall via COMTEX News Network/  Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM), the global leader in on-demand customer relationship management (CRM), today announced that John Freeland, managing director in charge of CRM at Accenture, will join the company's senior management team as President, Worldwide Operations.
 
(Logo: http://www.newscom.com/cgi-bin/prnh/20050216/SFW105LOGO )
 
"We are thrilled to have John Freeland join our management team," said Marc Benioff, chairman and CEO of salesforce.com. "The CRM landscape is going through seismic changes, and John's unparalleled depth of experience will be a critical asset to our customers, partners, employees, and shareholders."
 
Freeland, who is retiring from Accenture, will report directly to Benioff, and will be primarily responsible for the Successforce portfolio of services and business alliances. Freeland will join other members of the executive committee, which include Jim Steele, President, Worldwide Sales and Distribution; Steve Cakebread, Chief Financial Officer; Parker Harris, Executive Vice President, Technology; and Kenneth Juster, Executive Vice President, Law, Policy, and Corporate Strategy.
 
"There is not a more respected authority in enterprise CRM today than John Freeland," said Steele. "With all the changes in the technology landscape, our potential customers have more questions than ever. John Freeland will be an incredible asset to salesforce.com's growing community of success."
 
Freeland is expected to assume his post at salesforce.com by the end of October.
 
"Increasingly, large enterprises are embracing on-demand computing, and salesforce.com has the platform that can meet their demands," said Freeland. "I believe Salesforce.com is in a unique position to be the market leader as this trend accelerates, and I'm excited to be part of the team making this happen."
 
About salesforce.com
 
Salesforce.com is the market and technology leader in on-demand customer relationship management (CRM). The company's Salesforce family of on-demand applications enables customers to manage and share all of their sales, support, marketing and partner information on demand. Appforce, salesforce.com's on-demand platform, allows customers to customize and integrate the Salesforce family to meet their unique business needs, and build whole new powerful applications quickly and easily. Appforce applications are available via AppExchange, salesforce.com's on-demand application sharing service. Customers can also take advantage of salesforce.com's world-class training, support, consulting and best practices offerings.
 
As of July 31, 2005, salesforce.com manages customer information for approximately 16,900 customers and approximately 308,000 paying subscribers including Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), America Online (AOL), Automatic Data Processing (ADP), Avis/Budget Rent A Car (Cendant Rental Car Group), Dow Jones Newswires, Nokia, Polycom and SunTrust. Any unreleased services or features referenced in this or other press releases or public statements are not currently available and may not be delivered on time or at all. Customers who purchase salesforce.com services should make their purchase decisions based upon features that are currently available.
Salesforce.com has headquarters in San Francisco, with offices in Europe and Asia, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CRM". For more information please visit http://www.salesforce.com , or call 1-800-NO-SOFTWARE.
 
NOTE: Salesforce.com is a registered trademark of, and Appforce and AppExchange are trademarks of, salesforce.com, Inc., San Francisco, California. Other names used may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
SOURCE Salesforce.com
 
Jane Hynes of Salesforce.com, +1-415-901-5079, or jhynes@salesforce.com
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this press release regarding salesforce.com's business which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report or Form 10-K for the most recently ended fiscal year.


