FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20060908164756.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On September 7, 2006, in connection with the appointment of Mr. Maynard Webb to the Board of Directors of salesforce.com, inc. (the "Company"), Mr. Webb was granted an option to purchase 50,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock pursuant to the terms of the Company's 2004 Outside Directors Stock Plan. Details regarding this option grant and other compensation related to Mr. Webb's board service are set forth in the Company's 2006 Proxy Statement under the subheading "Compensation of Directors."
 
On September 7, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors appointed Mr. Maynard Webb to serve as a Class II member of the Company's Board of Directors, with a term expiring at the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, and increased the size of the Board of Directors from eight (8) to nine (9) directors. Mr. Webb was appointed on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. The Board of Directors determined that Mr. Webb has no material relationship with the Company and is otherwise independent in accordance with the applicable listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Webb has not been named to any board committees at this time.
A copy of the Company's September 8, 2006 press release announcing Mr. Webb's appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
For Immediate Release
 
Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM), the market and technology leader in on-demand business services, today announced the appointment of Maynard Webb, former COO of eBay (Nasdaq: EBAY) to the company's board of directors, effective September 7, 2006. Mr. Webb has been added to the class of directors whose term will expire at the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders.
SAN FRANCISCO  September 8, 2006 
"I am delighted to welcome Maynard to salesforce.com's board of directors," said Marc Benioff, chairman and CEO of salesforce.com. "Maynard is widely recognized as a pioneer in scaling highly available, multi-tenant business services and has more than 20 years of hands-on operational experience, most recently as chief operating officer of eBay. His guidance and counsel will be a critical asset to the salesforce.com board as we build for the future."
Mr. Webb joins salesforce.com's board of directors which includes Marc Benioff, chairman of the board and CEO of salesforce.com; Craig Conway, former CEO of PeopleSoft; Alan Hassenfeld, chairman of Hasbro Inc.; Craig Ramsey, former CEO of Pay By Touch; Sanford Robertson, principal of Francisco Partners; Stratton Sclavos, chairman and CEO of VeriSign; Larry Tomlinson, former senior vice president and treasurer at Hewlett-Packard; and Shirley Young, president of Shirley Young Associates, LLC. The addition of Mr. Webb brings salesforce.com's total directors to nine and the number of independent directors on the board to eight.
Mr. Webb served as chief operating officer at eBay, Inc. from June 2002 to August 2006 and was responsible for the company-wide implementation of all business strategies. Previously, he served as president of eBay Technologies where he was responsible for all engineering and technical operations at eBay including product and technology strategy, engineering, architecture, site operations and customer support. Prior to joining eBay, Mr. Webb was senior vice president and chief information officer at Gateway, Inc., where he contributed to Gateway's rapid expansion and Internet-enabled business operations. In years prior he has also worked at Quantum, Thomas Conrad, Figgie International, and IBM, rounding out his more than 20-year career. Mr. Webb received a bachelor's degree from Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, Florida.
About salesforce.com
Salesforce.com is the market and technology leader in on-demand business services. The company's Salesforce suite of on-demand applications enables customers to manage and share all of their sales, support, marketing and partner information on-demand. AppExchange, salesforce.com's on-demand platform, allows customers and partners to build powerful new applications quickly and easily, customize and integrate the Salesforce suite to meet their unique business needs, and distribute and sell on-
demand apps at http://www.appexchange.com. Customers can also take advantage of Successforce, salesforce.com's world-class training, support, consulting and best practices offerings.
As of July 31, 2006, salesforce.com manages customer information for approximately 24,800 customers and approximately 501,000 paying subscribers including Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), America Online (AOL), Avis/Budget Rent A Car (Cendant Rental Car Group), Dow Jones Newswires, Nokia, Polycom and SunTrust Banks. Any unreleased services or features referenced in this or other press releases or public statements are not currently available and may not be delivered on time or at all. Customers who purchase salesforce.com applications should make their purchase decisions based upon features that are currently available. Salesforce.com has headquarters in San Francisco, with offices in Europe and Asia, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CRM". For more information please visit http://www.salesforce.com, or call 1-800-NO-SOFTWARE.
Salesforce.com is a registered trademark of, and The Business Web, AppExchange and Successforce are trademarks of, salesforce.com, Inc., San Francisco, California. Other names used may be trademarks of their respective owners.
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this press release regarding salesforce.com's business which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report or Form 10-K for the most recently ended fiscal year.


