FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20060222162428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 22, 2006, salesforce.com, inc. (the "Registrant") issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended January 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The press release attached to this current report on Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial information. In addition to providing the Registrant's net income and earnings per diluted share financial measures on a GAAP basis for the three months and year ended January 31, 2006, the press release also provides non-GAAP net income and earnings per diluted share figures.
The non-GAAP financial measures are derived from the applicable GAAP figures by excluding a one-time, non-cash income amount of $285,000 in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 as a result of the reduction in the Registrant's lease abandonment accrued liability. In March 2005, the Registrant entered into an agreement with its primary landlord that released the Registrant from a portion of the future obligations associated with office space abandoned in December 2001 in exchange for the agreement to lease additional office space elsewhere in the building.
The non-GAAP financial measures also reflect the exclusion of $6,769,000 of income in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 associated with the reversal of a portion of the Registrant's deferred tax valuation allowance.
Management provides these non-GAAP financial measures to give investors a more complete understanding of the Registrant's underlying operational results and trends in its performance.
The information in this current report on Form 8-K and the exhibits attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Bruce Francis
salesforce.com
Public Relations
415-536-6972
bfrancis@salesforce.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM), the market and technology leader in on-demand customer relationship management, today announced results for its fiscal fourth quarter ended January 31, 2006.
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif.  February 22, 2006 
"We were able to accomplish record revenue and subscriber growth while executing some of our most ambitious technology changes ever, including the AppExchange" said Marc Benioff, chairman and CEO of salesforce.com. "The on-demand model has never had more appeal, whether you're a customer ready to reap the benefits, or a legacy enterprise software company struggling to catch up."
Salesforce.com delivered the following results for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006:
: Paying subscribers rose a record 48,000 during the quarter and now total approximately 399,000. This ending total represents an increase of 76% from Q4 of the prior year, and an increase of 14% from the prior quarter. Customers rose 1,800 during the quarter and now total approximately 20,500, an increase of 47% from Q4 of the prior year, and an increase of 10% from the prior quarter.
Customers and Paying Subscribers
: Total revenue was $91.1 million, an increase of 67% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 10% on a quarter-to-quarter basis. Subscription and support revenues were $82.5 million, an increase of 67% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 11% on a quarter-to-quarter basis. Professional services and other revenues were $8.6 million, an increase of 66% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 4% on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Revenue
GAAP earnings per diluted share were $0.05, up 67% from Q4 of the prior year. Excluding the $0.06 tax benefit recorded during Q3, Q4 EPS of $0.05 was flat quarter-to-quarter. Average shares outstanding during Q4 were 121 million.
Earnings per Share:
: Cash from operations for the fiscal fourth quarter was $39.3 million, an increase of 86% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 60% on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Cash
: Deferred revenue as of January 31, 2006 was $169.2 million, an increase of 76% on a year-over-year basis and 33% on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Deferred Revenue
Salesforce.com is initiating guidance for its first quarter fiscal 2007, ending April 30, 2006, based on information as of February 22, 2006:
: Expected to be in the range of approximately $99 million to approximately $101 million.
Q1 FY07 Revenue
: Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, excluding the effects of stock based compensation, are expected to be in the range of approximately $0.02 to approximately $0.04. This further assumes an estimated average of 122 million diluted shares outstanding and an estimated non-GAAP effective tax rate of 45%.
Q1 FY07 Diluted EPS
Salesforce.com is raising fiscal year 2007 guidance based on information as of February 22, 2006:
: Expected to be in the range of approximately $470 million to approximately $475 million.
FY07 Revenue
: Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, excluding the effects of stock based compensation, are expected to be in the range of approximately $0.20 to $0.22. This further assumes an estimated average of 124 million diluted shares outstanding and an estimated non-GAAP effective tax rate of 45%.
FY07 Diluted EPS
Quarterly Conference Call
Salesforce.com will host a conference call to discuss its fourth quarter and fiscal 2006 results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Standard Time today. A live audio webcast of the conference call, together with detailed financial information, can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations Web site at http://www.salesforce.com/investor. In addition, an archive of the webcast can be accessed through the same link. Participants who choose to call in to the conference call can do so by dialing . A replay will be available until midnight Eastern Standard Time on March 3, 2006 and can be accessed by dialing, (719) 457-0820 or (888) 203-1112, passcode 9426730.
(913) 981-4911 or (800) 819-9193, passcode 9426730
About salesforce.com
Salesforce.com is the market and technology leader in on-demand customer relationship management (CRM). The company's Salesforce suite of on-demand applications enables customers to manage and share all of their sales, support, marketing and partner information on-demand. AppExchange, salesforce.com's on-demand platform, allows customers and partners to build powerful new applications quickly and easily, customize and integrate the Salesforce suite to meet their unique business needs, and distribute and sell on-demand apps at www.appexchange.com. Customers can also take advantage of Successforce, salesforce.com's world-class training, support, consulting and best practices offerings.
As of January 31, 2006, salesforce.com manages customer information for approximately 20,500 customers and approximately 399,000 paying subscribers including Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), America Online (AOL), Avis/Budget Rent A Car (Cendant Rental Car Group), Dow Jones Newswires, Nokia, Polycom and SunTrust. Any unreleased services or features referenced in this or other press releases or public statements are not currently available and may not be delivered on time or at all. Customers who purchase salesforce.com applications should make their purchase decisions based upon features that are currently available. Salesforce.com has headquarters in San Francisco, with offices in Europe and Asia, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CRM". For more information please visit http://www.salesforce.com, or call 1-800-NO-SOFTWARE.
"Safe harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This press release contains forward-looking statements about expected revenue and Non-GAAP earnings per share for
the first fiscal quarter of 2007 and the full fiscal year 2007, the achievement of which involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If any such risks or uncertainties materialize or if any of the assumptions proves incorrect, our results could differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements we make.
The risks and uncertainties referred to above include - but are not limited to - risks associated with possible fluctuations in our operating results and rate of growth, errors, interruptions or delays in our service or our Web hosting, our new business model, our history of operating losses, the possibility that we will not remain profitable, breach of our security measures, the emerging market in which we operate, our relatively limited operating history, our ability to hire, retain and motivate our employees and manage our growth, competition, our ability to continue to release and gain customer acceptance of new and improved versions of our service, customer and partner acceptance of the AppExchange, successful customer deployment and utilization of our services, unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate, fluctuations in the number of shares outstanding, the price of such shares, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Further information on these and other factors that could affect our financial results is included in the reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our Form 10-Q for the period ended October 31, 2005 and our Form10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005. These documents are available on the SEC Filings section of the Investor Information section of our website at www.salesforce.com/investor.
Salesforce.com, inc. assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
Salesforce.com is a registered trademark of, and AppExchange and Successforce are trademarks of, salesforce.com, Inc., San Francisco, California. Other names used may be trademarks of their respective owners.
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
(in thousands, except per share data)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
As a percentage of total revenues:
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(in thousands)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Additional Metrics
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
The October 31, 2004 paying subscription metrics exclude approximately 2,500 paying subscriptions who were using the Company's service, but for which the Company had delayed revenue recognition until specific new technology was completed.
salesforce.com, inc.
GAAP / Non-GAAP Reconciliation
(unaudited)
 
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, salesforce.com uses non-GAAP measures of income from operations, net income and earnings per diluted share, which are adjusted to exclude certain costs and income that we believe are appropriate to enhance the overall understanding of our past financial performance and also our prospects for the future. These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete
We believe the lease recovery item recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and the partial reversal of the deferred tax valuation allowance reserve in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 to be outside of our core operating results and thus appropriate to exclude from our financial results.
The presentation of additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income or diluted net income per share prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.


