FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20060816164713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
Item 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On August 16, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of salesforce.com, inc. (the "Company") approved an increase to the compensation package of Steve Cakebread, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Mr. Cakebread's annual base salary was increased to $400,000, effective as of September 1, 2006. He will be eligible to receive an annual bonus of up to $300,000, based upon achievement of a mix of company and individual performance objectives. Subject to board approval, he will also receive an option grant to purchase 300,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock with certain vesting requirements.
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 16, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended July 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The press release attached to this current report on Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial information. In addition to providing the Company's net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per diluted share financial measures on a GAAP basis for the three and six months ended July 31, 2006 and 2005 and the Company's third quarter ending October 31, 2006 and full fiscal year ending January 31, 2007, the press release also provides non-GAAP net income and earnings per diluted share figures.
The non-GAAP financial measures are derived from the applicable GAAP figures by excluding:
 
 
 
. Effective February 1, 2006, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), , or SFAS 123R, using the modified prospective transition method. The Company recognized pre-tax stock-based expense of $10.2 million during the three months ended July 31, 2006 and $17.8 million during the six months ended July 31, 2006.
Stock-based Expenses
Share-Based Payment
Prior to its adoption of SFAS 123R on February 1, 2006, the Company recognized stock-based compensation expense in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB 25"). Under APB 25, compensation expense of fixed stock options was based on the difference on the date of the grant between the deemed fair value of the Company's stock and the exercise price of the option. The differences occurred prior to the Company's initial public offering in June 2004 when there was no established public market for the Company's common stock. Compensation expense was recognized on a straight-line basis over the option-vesting period of four years. As a result, the Company recognized stock-based expense of $0.9 million during the three months ended July 31, 2005 and $1.8 million during the six months ended July 31, 2005.
. Additionally, the non-GAAP financial measures for the three and six months ended July 31, 2006 reflect the exclusion of $541,000 and $630,000, respectively, of amortization expense resulting from the business combination accounting for the acquisition of Sendia Corporation.
Amortization Expense of Acquired Intangible Assets
. The one-time unusual income item of $285,000, which was recorded during the three months ended April 30, 2005, was due to the reduction in accrued liabilities associated with office space the Company abandoned in December 2001. In March 2005, the Company entered into an agreement with its primary landlord that released the Company from a portion of the future obligations associated with office space in exchange for the agreement to lease additional office space elsewhere in the building.
One-time Unusual Income Item
. Management provides these non-GAAP financial measures to give investors a more complete understanding of the Company's underlying operational results and trends in its performance.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company generally uses non-GAAP financial measures for assessing its performance against management targets, which do not account for certain items, as a basis for making strategic decisions and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparison. It believes that use of non-GAAP numbers is
important as these figures ignore certain events and activities that could obscure or enhance trends or other factors affecting its business. This is especially true when, as in this quarter and for the six months ended July 31, 2006, the GAAP financial information includes a number of charges that did not exist in the Company's prior comparable reporting periods. For these reasons, the Company believes that these non-GAAP measures are also useful to investors. Further, the Company believes that the financial analysts who regularly follow and report on the company or sector exclude items such as these when analyzing performance relative to guidance, their financial performance estimates and the performance of other sector participants, and in projecting future financial results.
These non-GAAP measures should be considered as a supplement to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures of earnings per share. The Company's non-GAAP numbers may be different from those of other companies, limiting their usefulness as a comparative tool, and direct comparison should not be relied upon. Further, investors are cautioned that there are inherent limitations associated with the use of each of these non-GAAP financial measures as an analytical tool. In particular, these non-GAAP financial measures are not based on a comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles and one or more of the adjustments to the GAAP financial measure reflect the exclusion of items that are recurring and will be reflected in the Company's financial results for the foreseeable future.
The information in this current report on Form 8-K and the exhibits attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Steve Cakebread has withdrawn his resignation and will continue to serve as the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Cakebread will remain the Company's principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. Mr. Cakebread's biographical information can be found in the Company's proxy statement as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 24, 2006.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
David Havlek
salesforce.com
Investor Relations
415-536-2171
dhavlek@salesforce.com
Bruce Francis
salesforce.com
Public Relations
415-536-6972
bfrancis@salesforce.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM), the market and technology leader in on-demand business services, today announced results for its fiscal second quarter ended July 31, 2006.
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif.  August 16, 2006 
"As we soar past the half-million paying subscriber mark, we stand on the cusp of another remarkable achievement: a half-billion dollar annual run rate. These are historic milestones for salesforce.com and the industry that we are leading," said Marc Benioff, chairman and CEO of salesforce.com. "Few software companies achieve this scale and momentum. As we head towards one million subscribers and one billion dollars in revenue, I want to thank our 24,800 customers, partners, and our 1,625 employees for creating this amazing community of success on the Business Web."
Salesforce.com delivered the following results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2007:
: Total revenue was $118 million, an increase of 64% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 13% on a quarter-to-quarter basis. Subscription and support revenues were $106.7 million, an increase of 63% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 13% on a quarter-to-quarter basis. Professional services and other revenues were $11.5 million, an increase of 82% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 13% on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Revenue
GAAP earnings per share were approximately break-even. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, excluding the effects of stock based compensation and amortization of purchased intangibles related to acquisitions, were $0.06. For the basis of non-GAAP EPS calculations, a diluted share count of 119 million shares was used.
Earnings per Share:
: Net paying subscribers rose approximately 57,000 during Q2 to exit the quarter at approximately 501,000 total subscribers. This ending total represents an increase of 63% from Q2 of the prior year, and an increase of 13% from the prior quarter. Customers rose approximately 2,100 during the quarter and totaled approximately 24,800, an increase of 47% from Q2 of the prior year, and an increase of 9% from the prior quarter.
Customers and Paying Subscribers
: Cash from operations for the fiscal second quarter was approximately $30 million, an increase of 133% year-over-year.
Cash
: Deferred revenue on the balance sheet as of July 31, 2006 was $202.8 million, an increase of 73% on a year-over-year basis and 11% on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Deferred Revenue
Based on information as of August 16, 2006, salesforce.com is initiating guidance for its third quarter fiscal 2007 ending October 31, 2006, and updating guidance for its full fiscal year 2007 ending January 31, 2007.
: Revenue for the company's third fiscal quarter is projected to be in the range of approximately $126 million to approximately $128 million. Non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of approximately $0.04 to $0.05, and GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of approximately breakeven to a loss of $0.02 for the third quarter. Non-GAAP EPS estimates exclude the effects of stock based compensation, which is now expected to be approximately $0.05 to $0.06 per share, and the amortization of purchased intangibles which are now expected to be a small fraction of $0.01 per share. Non-GAAP estimates further assume an estimated average of 121 million diluted shares outstanding and an estimated non-GAAP effective tax rate of 45%.
Q3 FY07
: The company today is raising its revenue outlook for its fiscal year 2007, and now expects full year revenue of approximately $488 million to approximately $493 million. The company is also raising it's earnings outlook for the full year, and now expects non-GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of approximately $0.19 to $0.21, with GAAP EPS expected to be in the range of approximately breakeven to a loss of $0.04. Non-GAAP EPS estimates exclude the effects of stock based compensation, which is now expected to be approximately $0.20 to $0.22 per share, and the amortization of purchased intangibles which are now expected to be approximately $0.01 per share. Non-GAAP estimates further assume an estimated average of 121 million diluted shares outstanding and an estimated non-GAAP effective tax rate of 45%.
Full Year FY07
Quarterly Conference Call
Salesforce.com will host a conference call to discuss its second quarter fiscal 2007 results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time today. A live audio webcast of the conference call, together with detailed financial information, can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations Web site at http://www.salesforce.com/investor. In addition, an archive of the webcast can be accessed through the same link. Participants who choose to call into the conference call can do so by dialing 866-901-SFDC or 866-901-7332. International participants may dial 706-758-3772. A replay will be available until midnight Eastern Daylight Time on September 1, 2006 and can be accessed by dialing, (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291, passcode 3911289.
About salesforce.com
Salesforce.com is the market and technology leader in on-demand business services. The company's Salesforce suite of on-demand applications enables customers to manage and share all of their sales, support, marketing and partner information on-demand. AppExchange, salesforce.com's on-demand platform, allows customers and partners to build powerful new applications quickly and easily, customize and integrate the Salesforce suite to meet their unique business needs, and distribute and sell on-demand apps at www.appexchange.com. Customers can also take advantage of Successforce, salesforce.com's world-class training, support, consulting and best practices offerings.
As of July 31, 2006, salesforce.com manages customer information for approximately 24,800 customers and approximately 501,000 paying subscribers including Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), America Online (AOL), Avis/Budget Rent A Car (Cendant Rental Car Group), Dow Jones Newswires, Nokia, Polycom and SunTrust. Any unreleased services or features referenced in this or other press
releases or public statements are not currently available and may not be delivered on time or at all. Customers who purchase salesforce.com applications should make their purchase decisions based upon features that are currently available. Salesforce.com has headquarters in San Francisco, with offices in Europe and Asia, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CRM". For more information please visit http://www.salesforce.com, or call 1-800-NO-SOFTWARE.
"Safe harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This press release contains forward-looking statements about expected revenue and GAAP and Non-GAAP earnings per share for the third fiscal quarter of 2007, the full fiscal year 2007, and our revenue run rate and future subscriber goals, the achievement of which involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If any such risks or uncertainties materialize or if any of the assumptions proves incorrect, our results could differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements we make.
The risks and uncertainties referred to above include - but are not limited to - risks associated with possible fluctuations in our operating results, rate of growth and anticipated revenue run rate, errors, interruptions or delays in our service or our Web hosting, our new business model, our history of operating losses, the possibility that we will not remain profitable, breach of our security measures, the emerging market in which we operate, our relatively limited operating history, our ability to hire, retain and motivate our employees and manage our growth, competition, our ability to continue to release and gain customer acceptance of new and improved versions of our service, customer and partner acceptance of the AppExchange, successful customer deployment and utilization of our services, unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate, fluctuations in the number of shares outstanding, the price of such shares, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Further information on these and other factors that could affect our financial results is included in the reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2006, and our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2006. These documents are available on the SEC Filings section of the Investor Information section of our website at www.salesforce.com/investor.
Salesforce.com, inc. assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
Salesforce.com is a registered trademark of, and The Business Web, AppExchange and Successforce are trademarks of, salesforce.com, Inc., San Francisco, California. Other names used may be trademarks of their respective owners.
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
(in thousands, except per share data)
      (Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
            As a percentage of total revenues:
            (Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(in thousands)
      (Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Additional Metrics
      (Unaudited)
 
 
 
salesforce.com, inc.
GAAP / Non-GAAP Reconciliation
(in thousands, except per share data)
      (Unaudited)
 
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, salesforce.com uses non-GAAP measures of net income and earnings per share, which are adjusted to exclude certain costs, such as stock-based expenses and the effect of business combination entries related to acquisitions, and income that we believe are appropriate to enhance the overall understanding and comparison with our past financial performance and trends and also our prospects for the future. These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of salesforce.com's underlying operational results and trends and our performance.
salesforce.com, inc.
GAAP / Non-GAAP Reconciliation
(in thousands, except per share data)
      (Unaudited)
 
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, salesforce.com uses non-GAAP measures of net income and earnings per share, which are adjusted to exclude certain costs, such as stock-based expenses and the effect of business combination entries related to acquisitions, and income that we believe are appropriate to enhance the overall understanding and comparison with our past financial performance and trends and also our prospects for the future. These adjustments to our GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of salesforce.com's underlying operational results and trends and our performance.
The presentation of non-GAAP financial results is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income or earnings per share prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Investors should be aware that non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Explanation of adjustments
 
 
 
 


