FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20070411170403.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 9, 2007, the board of directors of salesforce.com, inc. (the "Company") appointed William Dewes to serve as the Company's principal accounting officer effective as of April 9, 2007. Mr. Dewes, age 50, joined the Company in November 2006. Mr. Dewes will retain his existing responsibilities as Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer in addition to assuming his new duties as principal accounting officer. Steve Cakebread, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will continue to serve as the Company's principal financial officer. Mr. Dewes will not be receiving any additional compensation for his appointment as principal accounting officer.
Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Dewes served as principal accounting officer of Hyperion Solutions, an enterprise software company, from September 2003 to April 2006. From March 2001 to August 2003, Mr. Dewes served as vice president of finance and accounting at Nuance Communications, a speech recognition software company. Mr. Dewes holds a B.S. in Business Administration from the University of California at Berkeley.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


