FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20070516163413.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 16, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended April 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this current report on Form 8-K and the exhibits attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press Release dated May 16, 2007
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
David Havlek
salesforce.com
Investor Relations
415-536-2171
dhavlek@salesforce.com
Jane Hynes
salesforce.com
Public Relations
415-901-5079
jhynes@salesforce.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM), the market and technology leader in on-demand business services, today announced results for its fiscal first quarter ended April 30, 2007.
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif.  May 16, 2007 
"The momentum for our industry-leading on-demand applications and platform was truly global in our fiscal first quarter, as large enterprises around the world entrusted their futures to Salesforce," said Marc Benioff, chairman and CEO, salesforce.com. "Just two quarters ago, we were the first on-demand company to cross the significant threshold of a $500 million annual revenue run rate. Now, we have surpassed the $600 million run rate  another step closer to our $1 billion goal. We believe that this makes salesforce.com the fastest growing software company of our size today."
Salesforce.com delivered the following results for the first fiscal quarter 2008:
When comparing reported company EPS results with Thomson Financial First Call estimates, it should be noted that salesforce.com presents EPS results in GAAP terms only. Thomson estimates for salesforce.com are currently reported in non-GAAP terms, which exclude certain recurring items, such as stock based compensation and amortization of purchased intangibles.
GAAP EPS Policy
:
: Total Q1 revenue was $162.4 million, an increase of 55% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 13% on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Subscription and support revenues were $147.7 million, an increase of 56% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 12% on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Professional services and other revenues were $14.7 million, an increase of 44% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 21% on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Revenue
Q1 GAAP earnings per share were $0.01. This result reflects approximately $12.0 million in stock based compensation and approximately $1.0 million in amortization of purchased intangibles related to previously announced acquisitions. Q1 diluted GAAP EPS calculations are based on an average of 121 million diluted shares outstanding during the quarter.
Earnings per Share:
: Net paying customers rose approximately 2,500 during the quarter to approximately 32,300, an increase of 42% or 9,600 from Q1 of the prior year, and an increase of 8% from the prior quarter.
Customers
: Cash from operations for the fiscal first quarter was approximately $37 million, an increase of 197% year-over-year. Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities finished the quarter at approximately $448 million, an increase of approximately $150 million year-over-year.
Cash
: Deferred revenue on the balance sheet as of April 30, 2007 was $296 million, an increase of 62% on a year-over-year basis and 4% on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Deferred Revenue
Based on information as of May 16, 2007, salesforce.com is initiating guidance for its second quarter, fiscal year 2008, and raising its revenue guidance for the full fiscal year 2008.
: Revenue for the company's second fiscal quarter is projected to be in the range of approximately $171 million to $173 million. GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of approximately breakeven to $0.01. GAAP EPS estimates include the effects of stock based compensation and the amortization of purchased intangibles. For the second fiscal quarter FY08, stock based compensation expense is expected to be approximately $13 million to $15 million, and the expense associated with the amortization of purchased intangibles is now expected to be approximately $1.5 million. For the purposes of Q2 GAAP EPS calculation, the company is expecting an average diluted shares count of 122 million shares, and a GAAP tax rate of 70%.
Q2 FY08
: The company today is raising the revenue outlook provided on February 21, 2007, with revenue now expected to be approximately $722 million to approximately $728 million. The company is also reiterating earnings outlook for the full year, expecting GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of approximately $0.07 to $0.09. GAAP EPS estimates include the effects of stock based compensation and the amortization of purchased intangibles. For the full fiscal year 2008, stock based compensation expense is expected to be approximately $60 million to $70 million, and the expense associated with the amortization of purchased intangibles is currently expected to be approximately $5.0 million. For the purposes of the full fiscal year 2008 GAAP EPS calculation, the company is expecting an average diluted shares count of 124 million shares, and a GAAP tax rate of 65%.
Full Year FY08
Quarterly Conference Call
Salesforce.com will host a conference call to discuss its first quarter fiscal 2008 results at 2:00 p.m. (PDT) today. A live audio webcast of the conference call, together with detailed financial information, can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations Web site at http://www.salesforce.com/investor. In addition, an archive of the webcast can be accessed through the same link. Participants who choose to call into the conference call can do so by dialing domestically 866-901-SFDC or 866-901-7332 and internationally 706-758-3772. A replay will be available at (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291, passcode 7943492, until midnight (EDT) May 25, 2007.
About salesforce.com
Salesforce.com is the market and technology leader in on-demand business services. The company's Salesforce suite of on-demand CRM applications allows customers to manage and share all of their sales, support, marketing and partner information on-demand. The Salesforce Platform, the world's first on-demand platform, enables customers, developers and partners to build powerful new on-demand applications that extend beyond CRM to deliver the benefits of multi-tenancy and The Business Web across the enterprise. The Salesforce Platform allows applications to be easily shared, exchanged and installed with a few simple clicks via salesforce.com's AppExchange directory, available at http://www.salesforce.com/appexchange. Customers can also take advantage of Successforce, salesforce.com's world-class training, support, consulting and best practices offerings.
As of April 30, 2007, salesforce.com manages customer information for approximately 32,300 customers including America Online (AOL), Dow Jones Newswires, Japan Post, Kaiser Permanente, KONE, Sprint Nextel, Staples, and SunTrust Banks. Any unreleased services or features referenced in this or other press releases or public statements are not currently available and may not be delivered on time or at all. Customers who purchase salesforce.com applications should make their purchase decisions based upon features that are currently available. Salesforce.com has headquarters in San Francisco, with offices in Europe and Asia, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CRM". For more information please visit http://www.salesforce.com, or call 1-800-NO-SOFTWARE.
"Safe harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This press release contains forward-looking statements including but not limited to statements regarding our expected future revenue, GAAP diluted earnings per share, expected tax rate, anticipated shares outstanding, and concerning the potential market for our existing service offerings. All of our forward looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If any such risks or uncertainties materialize or if any of the assumptions proves incorrect, our results could differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements we make.
The risks and uncertainties referred to above includebut are not limited torisks associated with possible fluctuations in our operating results and cash flows, rate of growth and anticipated revenue run rate, errors, interruptions or delays in our service or our Web hosting, our new business model, our history of operating losses, the possibility that we will not remain profitable, breach of our security measures, the emerging market in which we operate, our relatively limited operating history, our ability to hire, retain and motivate our employees and manage our growth, competition, our ability to continue to release and gain customer acceptance of new and improved versions of our service, customer and partner acceptance of the AppExchange, successful customer deployment and utilization of our services, unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate, fluctuations in the number of shares outstanding, the price of such shares, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Further information on these and other factors that could affect our financial results is included in the reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2007. These documents are available on the SEC Filings section of the Investor Information section of our website at www.salesforce.com/investor.
Salesforce.com, inc. assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
Salesforce.com is a registered trademark of salesforce.com, and AppExchange, The Business Web, IdeaExchange and Successforce are trademarks of salesforce.com, Inc., San Francisco, California. Other names used may be trademarks of their respective owners.
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
(in thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
As a percentage of total revenues:
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(in thousands)
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Additional Metrics
(Unaudited)
 


