FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20071115163219.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 15, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended October 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this current report on Form 8-K and the exhibits attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
David Havlek
salesforce.com
Investor Relations
415-536-2171
dhavlek@salesforce.com
Jane Hynes
salesforce.com
Public Relations
415-901-5079
jhynes@salesforce.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM), the market and technology leader in on-demand business services, today announced results for its third fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2007.
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif.  November 15, 2007 
"Revenue for our third fiscal quarter grew an amazing 48% from the year ago quarter to roughly $193 million. That's more revenue in 9-months this fiscal year, than we achieved all of last year," said Marc Benioff, CEO and Chairman. "At this rate, we expect to push well past the $800 million revenue run rate in Q4, and we are now on track to become the first ever on-demand company to exceed $1 billion in annual revenue in our fiscal 09. Our on-demand industry leadership has never been more clear."
Salesforce.com delivered the following results for the third fiscal quarter 2008:
: Total Q3 revenue was $192.8 million, an increase of 48% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 9% on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Subscription and support revenues were $176.4 million, an increase of 49% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 10% on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Professional services and other revenues were $16.4 million, an increase of 41% on a year-over-year basis and a decrease of 1% on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Revenue
Q3 diluted GAAP earnings per share were $0.05. The Q3 GAAP EPS result was benefited by a gain of approximately $0.01 per share associated with the sale of a minority investment. Third quarter results also include approximately $14.2 million in stock based compensation and approximately $1.4 million in amortization of purchased intangibles related to previously announced acquisitions, as well as a 46% tax rate. Q3 diluted GAAP EPS calculations are based on an average of 122 million diluted shares outstanding during the quarter.
Earnings per Share:
: The company added approximately 2,800 net paying customers during the 3rd quarter. These additions pushed total net paying customers in the third quarter to 38,100, an increase of approximately 11,000 or 41% from Q3 of the prior year, and an increase of approximately 8% from the prior quarter.
Customers
: Cash from operations for the fiscal third quarter was the most in the company's history at approximately $52 million, an increase of approximately 70% year-over-year. Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities finished the quarter at approximately $571 million, an increase of approximately 54% or $200 million year-over-year.
Cash
: Deferred revenue on the balance sheet as of the end of the fiscal third quarter was roughly $341 million, an increase of 55% on a year-over-year basis and 6% on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Deferred Revenue
Based on information as of November 15, 2007, salesforce.com is initiating guidance for its fourth quarter and raising guidance for its full fiscal year 2008 ending January 31, 2008. Salesforce.com is also initiating full year fiscal 2009 guidance.
: Revenue for the company's fourth fiscal quarter is projected to be in the range of approximately $206 million to $208 million. GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of approximately $0.03 to $0.04. GAAP EPS estimates include the effects of stock based compensation and the amortization of purchased intangibles. For the fourth fiscal quarter FY08, stock based compensation expense is expected to be approximately $16 million to $18 million, and the expense associated with the amortization of purchased intangibles is now expected to be approximately $1.5 million. For the purposes of Q4 GAAP EPS calculation, the company is expecting an average diluted shares count of 125 million shares, and a GAAP tax rate of 46%.
Q4 FY08
: The company is raising its full fiscal year 2008 revenue and EPS outlook. Revenue is now expected to be approximately $737 million to approximately $739 million. The company now expects GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of approximately $0.12 to $0.13. This GAAP EPS estimate includes the effects of stock based compensation, amortization of purchased intangibles, and the third quarter gain on the sale of a minority investment. For the full fiscal year 2008, stock based compensation expense is expected to be approximately $56 million to $58 million, and the expense associated with the amortization of purchased intangibles is currently expected to be approximately $5.5 million. For the purposes of the full fiscal year 2008 GAAP EPS calculation, the company is expecting an average diluted shares count of 123 million shares, and a GAAP tax rate of 50%.
Full Year FY08
: The company today is initiating revenue guidance for its fiscal year 2009, and now expects full year revenue of approximately $1.0 billion to approximately $1.02 billion. The company plans to provide its expectations for FY09 GAAP EPS at the time it announces its fourth quarter FY08 results planned for February, 2008.
Full Year FY09
Quarterly Conference Call
Salesforce.com will host a conference call to discuss its third quarter fiscal 2008 results at 2:00 p.m. (PST) today. A live audio webcast of the conference call, together with detailed financial information, can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations Web site at http://www.salesforce.com/investor. In addition, an archive of the webcast can be accessed through the same link. Participants who choose to call into the conference call can do so by dialing domestically 866-901-SFDC or 866-901-7332 and internationally 706-902-1764. A replay will be available at (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291, passcode 22940333, until midnight (EST) November 23, 2007.
About salesforce.com
Salesforce.com is the market and technology leader in on-demand business services. The company's Salesforce suite of on-demand CRM applications allows customers to manage and share all of their sales, support, marketing and partner information on-demand. Force.com, the world's first on-demand platform, enables customers, developers and partners to build powerful new on-demand applications that extend beyond CRM to deliver the benefits of multi-tenancy and The Business Web across the enterprise. Force.com allows applications to be easily shared, exchanged and installed with a few simple clicks via salesforce.com's AppExchange marketplace, available at http://www.salesforce.com/appexchange. Customers can also take advantage of Successforce, salesforce.com's world-class training, support, consulting and best practices offerings.
As of October 31, 2007, salesforce.com manages customer information for approximately 38,100 customers including ABN AMRO, Dow Jones Newswires, Japan Post, Kaiser Permanente, KONE, Sprint Nextel, and SunTrust Banks. Any unreleased services or features referenced in this or other press releases or public statements are not currently available and may not be delivered on time or at all. Customers who purchase salesforce.com applications should make their purchase decisions based upon features that are currently available. Salesforce.com has headquarters in San Francisco, with offices in Europe and Asia, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CRM". For more information please visit http://www.salesforce.com, or call 1-800-NO-SOFTWARE.
"Safe harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This press release contains forward-looking statements including but not limited to statements regarding our expected future revenue, GAAP diluted earnings per share, expected tax rate, anticipated shares outstanding, future growth and margin expectations, further adoption of our on-demand business services by enterprises, and the potential market for our existing service offerings. All of our forward looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If any such risks or uncertainties materialize or if any of the assumptions proves incorrect, our results could differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements we make.
The risks and uncertainties referred to above include - but are not limited to - risks associated with possible fluctuations in our operating results and cash flows, rate of growth and anticipated revenue run rate, errors, interruptions or delays in our service or our Web hosting, our new business model, our history of operating losses, the possibility that we will not remain profitable, breach of our security measures, the emerging market in which we operate, our relatively limited operating history, our ability to hire, retain and motivate our employees and manage our growth, competition, our ability to continue to release and gain customer acceptance of new and improved versions of our service, customer and partner acceptance of the AppExchange, successful customer deployment and utilization of our services, unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate, fluctuations in the number of shares outstanding, the price of such shares, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Further information on these and other factors that could affect our financial results is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." These documents are available in the SEC Filings portion of the Investor Information section of our website at .
www.salesforce.com/investor
Salesforce.com, inc. assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
Copyright (c) 2007 salesforce.com, inc. All rights reserved. Salesforce.com, AppExchange, Successforce, The Business Web and the "no software" logo are registered trademarks of salesforce.com, inc., and salesforce.com owns other registered and unregistered trademarks. Other names used herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
(in thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
As a percentage of total revenues:
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(in thousands)
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Additional Metrics
(Unaudited)
 
 


