FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20080521163438.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 21, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended April 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this current report on Form 8-K and the exhibits attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
David Havlek
salesforce.com
Investor Relations
415-536-2171
dhavlek@salesforce.com
Jane Hynes
salesforce.com
Public Relations
415-901-5079
jhynes@salesforce.com
 
Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM), the market and technology leader in Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) and Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS), today announced results for its fiscal first quarter ended April 30, 2008.
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif.  May 21, 2008 
"First quarter revenues were up 52% year-over-year, and well above our guidance," said Marc Benioff, Chairman and CEO. "And our growing profitability contributed to GAAP EPS of eight cents per share, up from one cent a year ago, and record operating cash of $84M, an increase of 128% from the prior year. Salesforce.com has now generated more than a quarter billion dollars of operating cash in the last 12 months alone."
Salesforce.com delivered the following results for its first quarter fiscal year 2009:
: Total Q1 revenue was $247.6 million, an increase of 52% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 14% on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Subscription and support revenues were $225.3 million, an increase of 53% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 15% on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Professional services and other revenues were $22.3 million, an increase of 51% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 9% on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Revenue
Q1 GAAP diluted earnings per share were approximately $0.08, including approximately $18 million in stock based compensation and approximately $1.3 million in amortization of purchased intangibles related to previously announced acquisitions. For the basis of Q1 GAAP EPS calculations, there was an average of approximately 124 million diluted shares outstanding during the quarter.
Earnings per Share:
: Net paying customers rose approximately 2,600 during the quarter to approximately 43,600. Compared with the year ago quarter, net paying customers have grown by approximately 11,300.
Customers Additions
: Cash from operations for the fiscal first quarter was approximately $84 million, up 128% year-over-year, up 4% from Q4, and a company record for the 3
Cash
rd
consecutive quarter. Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities finished the quarter at approximately $751 million, an increase of approximately $81 million from Q4 and up approximately $303 million from the year prior.
: Deferred revenue on the balance sheet as of April 30, 2008 was approximately $470 million, an increase of 59% on a year-over-year basis and a decline of 2% on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Deferred Revenue
As of May 21, 2008, salesforce.com is initiating guidance for its second quarter, fiscal year 2009. In addition, for its full fiscal year 2009 the company is raising its revenue and EPS guidance.
: Revenue for the company's second fiscal quarter is projected to be in the range of approximately $258 million to approximately $259 million. GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of approximately $0.07 to $0.08. This estimate includes the effects of stock based compensation and the amortization of purchased intangibles. For the second fiscal quarter, stock based compensation expense is expected to be approximately $19 million, and the expense associated with amortization of purchased intangibles is now expected to be approximately $1.3 million. For purposes of the Q2 GAAP EPS calculation, the company is expecting an average diluted shares count of approximately 125 million shares, and a GAAP tax rate of 48%.
Q2 FY09
: The company today is raising the full year revenue guidance it provided on February 27, 2008, with revenue now expected to be approximately $1.060 billion to approximately $1.065 billion. The company is also raising its earnings outlook for the full year, expecting GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of approximately $0.33 to $0.34. GAAP EPS estimates include the effects of stock based compensation and the amortization of purchased intangibles. For the full fiscal year 2009, stock based compensation expense is expected to be approximately $83 million, and the expense associated with the amortization of purchased intangibles is currently expected to be approximately $5.3 million. For purposes of the full fiscal year 2009 GAAP EPS calculation, the company is expecting an average diluted shares count of approximately 125 million shares, and a GAAP tax rate of 48%.
Full Year FY09
Quarterly Conference Call
Salesforce.com will host a conference call to discuss its first quarter fiscal 2009 results today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time. A live audio webcast of the conference call, together with detailed financial information, can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations Web site at http://www.salesforce.com/investor. In addition, an archive of the webcast can be accessed through the same link. Participants who choose to call in to the conference call can do so by dialing domestically 866-901-SFDC or 866-901-7332 and internationally 706-902-1764. A replay will be available at (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291, passcode 46678383, until midnight Eastern Time June 13, 2008.
About salesforce.com
Salesforce.com is the market and technology leader in Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) and Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS). The company's portfolio of SaaS applications, including its award-winning CRM, available at , has revolutionized the ways that customers manage and share business information over the Internet. The company's Force.com PaaS enables customers, developers and partners to build powerful on-demand applications that deliver the benefits of multi-tenancy across the enterprise. Applications built on the Force.com platform, available at , can be easily shared, exchanged and installed with a few simple clicks via salesforce.com's AppExchange marketplace available at .
http://www.salesforce.com/products/
http://www.force.com/
http://www.salesforce.com/appexchange/
As of April 30, 2008, salesforce.com manages customer information for approximately 43,600 customers including ABN AMRO, Dow Jones Newswires, Japan Post, Kaiser Permanente, KONE, Sprint Nextel, and SunTrust Banks. Any unreleased services or features referenced in this or other press releases or public statements are not currently available and may not be delivered on time or at all. Customers who purchase salesforce.com applications should make their purchase decisions based upon features that are currently available. Salesforce.com has headquarters in San Francisco, with offices in Europe and Asia, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CRM". For more information please visit http://www.salesforce.com, or call 1-800-NO-SOFTWARE.
"Safe harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This press release contains forward-looking statements about expected revenue and GAAP earnings per share for the second fiscal quarter of 2009 and the full fiscal year 2009, and our expected tax rate, stock based compensation expense, amortization rate, and shares outstanding, the achievement of which involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If any such risks or uncertainties materialize or if any of the assumptions prove incorrect, our results could differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements we make.
The risks and uncertainties referred to above include - but are not limited to - risks associated with possible fluctuations in our financial and operating results, rate of growth and anticipated revenue run rate; errors, interruptions or delays in our service or our Web hosting; breaches of our security measures; the impact of any future acquisitions, the nature of our business model; our ability to continue to release, and gain customer acceptance of, new and improved versions of our service; successful customer deployment and utilization of our existing and future services; competition; various financial aspects of our subscription model; the emerging market in which we operate; our ability to hire, retain and motivate our employees and manage our growth; changes in our customer base; technological developments; unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate; and fluctuations in the number of shares we have outstanding, the price of such shares, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Further information on these and other factors that could affect our financial results is included in the reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our Form 10-Q that will be filed for the quarter ended April 30, 2008 and our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008. These documents are available on the SEC Filings section of the Investor Information section of our website at www.salesforce.com/investor.
Salesforce.com, inc. assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
Copyright (c) 2008 salesforce.com, inc. All rights reserved. Salesforce and the "no software" logo are registered trademarks of salesforce.com, inc., and salesforce.com owns other registered and unregistered trademarks. Other names used herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
As a percentage of total revenues:
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(in thousands)
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Additional Metrics
(Unaudited)
 


