FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20081120163654.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 20, 2008, salesforce.com, inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended October 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this Item 2.02 and Item 9.01 of this current report on Form 8-K and the exhibits attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On November 18, 2008, upon recommendation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, the independent members of the Board of Directors approved a compensation program for Marc Benioff, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Benioff did not participate in the discussion or approval of his own compensation.
Mr. Benioff's ongoing contributions as Chief Executive Officer and technology industry leader are unique and highly valuable. Since founding the Company in 1999, Mr. Benioff has received only a nominal salary of either $1 or $10 annually, with no bonus and only a single option grant in 1999. Given the growth of the Company, the Compensation Committee believes it is a key component of the Company's success to retain Mr. Benioff's ongoing services as Chief Executive Officer. The Compensation Committee also determined that it was in the best interest of the stockholders to develop a long-term sustainable organizational compensation structure that includes a paid chief executive. In March 2008, the Compensation Committee, with the advice of an independent compensation consulting firm, began a comprehensive review and analysis of competitive compensation practices for chief executive officers. The Compensation Committee concluded its work in November 2008 and recommended a compensation program for Mr. Benioff which is commensurate with that of chief executive officers at technology companies of similar size and proportionate to the compensation programs of other executive officers of the Company.
Under the compensation program, beginning on February 1, 2009, Mr. Benioff will receive an annual base salary of $750,000 and will be eligible to receive an annual bonus of up to $750,000 based upon achieving a mix of Company and individual performance objectives pursuant to the Company's existing bonus plan. The Compensation Committee approved an option grant to Mr. Benioff of 600,000 shares of common stock at the fair market value on the grant date subject to the Company's standard vesting schedule. This option grant will be granted pursuant to the Company's normal granting schedule in November 2008 and follows the Company's granting schedule for follow-on equity grants to executive officers. Mr. Benioff is not compensated for his services as Chairman of the Board.
Independent members of the Board of Directors also approved entering into a Change of Control and Retention Agreement with Mr. Benioff. The terms of the agreement will not be effective until six (6) months after the agreement is executed. Under the terms of the agreement, which contains substantially the same terms and conditions as the agreements with other executive officers of the Company except as noted below, in the event Mr. Benioff is terminated without "cause" or resigns for "good reason" (each as defined in the agreement) within three (3) months prior to or eighteen (18) months after a change of control of the Company, and subject to his entering into a release of claims in favor of the Company within sixty (60) days, Mr. Benioff will be entitled to receive the following benefits:
 
 
 
At the same meeting, upon recommendation by the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors also approved entering into Change of Control and Retention Agreements with the following executive officers of the Company: Mr. Graham Smith and Ms. Polly Sumner. The terms of these agreements will be effective upon execution of the agreements. These agreements contain substantially the same terms and conditions as are in other executives' Change of Control and Retention Agreements, but provide for the following benefits in lieu of those described above:
 
 
 
Further, upon recommendation by the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors approved amending the Change of Control and Retention Agreements with Messrs. Steve Cakebread, Parker Harris, George Hu, Kenneth Juster, David Schellhase, Jim Steele and Frank van Veenendaal. These agreements are being revised to implement certain technical amendments to comply with recent informal IRS guidance on Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
The change of control agreements and amendments to the existing change of control agreements will be entered into shortly.
        Also on November 18, 2008, the Compensation Committee approved increases to the compensation packages of Mr. Graham Smith, our principal financial officer and the following named executive officers: Messrs. Parker Harris, Kenneth Juster and Jim Steele. Beginning on February 1, 2009, Messrs. Harris, Juster and Smith will each receive an annual base salary of $420,000 and each will be eligible to receive an annual bonus of up to $315,000 based upon achieving a mix of Company and individual performance objectives pursuant to the Company's existing bonus plan. Mr. Steele will receive an annual base salary of $367,500 and will be eligible to receive an annual bonus of up to $367,500 based upon achievement of a mix of Company and individual performance objectives. The Compensation Committee also approved equity grants to Messrs. Harris, Juster, Smith and Steele. Each will receive an option grant to purchase 80,000 shares of common stock at the fair market value on the grant date and 6,667 restricted stock units, subject in each case to the Company's standard vesting schedule. The equity grants will be granted pursuant to the Company's normal granting schedule in November 2008 and follow the Company's granting schedule for follow-on equity grants to executive officers.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
99.1     Press Release dated November 20, 2008
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
David Havlek
salesforce.com
Investor Relations
415-536-2171
dhavlek@salesforce.com
Jane Hynes
salesforce.com
Public Relations
415-901-5079
jhynes@salesforce.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM), the enterprise cloud computing company, today announced results for its fiscal third quarter ended October 31, 2008.
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif.  November 20, 2008 
"In times like these, our value proposition of low start up cost, low risk, and fast results is resonating like never before," said Marc Benioff, chairman and CEO, salesforce.com. "In the third quarter, we continued to add customers at the same record level we did last quarter, at a time when the traditional enterprise software world was retrenching."
Salesforce.com delivered the following results for its third quarter fiscal year 2009:
: Total Q3 revenue was $276.5 million, an increase of 43% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 5% on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Subscription and support revenues were $253.4 million, an increase of 44% on a year-over-year basis and an increase of 6% on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Professional services and other revenues were $23.1 million, an increase of 41% on a year-over-year basis and a decrease of 1% on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Revenue
Q3 GAAP diluted earnings per share were approximately $0.08, including approximately $19 million in stock based compensation and approximately $2.5 million in amortization of purchased intangibles related to previously announced acquisitions. For the purpose of this Q3 GAAP EPS calculation, there was an average of approximately 125 million diluted shares outstanding during the quarter.
Earnings per Share:
: Deferred revenue was approximately $470 million as of October 31, 2008, an increase of 38% on a year-over-year basis and down approximately 2% on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Excluding a negative foreign currency impact of approximately $14M during the quarter, deferred revenue grew by approximately $4 million in constant currency terms from Q2.
Deferred Revenue
: Cash from operations for the fiscal third quarter was approximately $17 million, compared to $52 million in the year-ago period and $53 million in Q2. Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities finished the quarter at approximately $805 million, a decrease of approximately $19 million from Q2 and up approximately $234 million from October 31, 2007The
Cash
.
sequential decrease in cash and marketable securities was primarily due to the company's previously announced acquisition of InStranet and to the purchase of shares in salesforce.com's Japanese majority-owned joint venture. Together these items reduced cash by approximately $44 million during the quarter.
: During the quarter net paying customers rose approximately 4,100, and total customer count stands at approximately 51,800. Compared with the year ago quarter, net paying customers have grown by approximately 13,700.
Customer Additions
As of November 20, 2008, salesforce.com is initiating guidance for its fourth quarter, fiscal year 2009. In addition, the company is initiating revenue guidance for its full fiscal year 2010.
Guidance:
: Revenue for the company's fourth fiscal quarter is projected to be in the range of approximately $284 million to approximately $285 million. The company expects fully diluted GAAP EPS to be in the range of $0.06 to $0.07. The GAAP EPS estimate includes the effects of stock based compensation and the amortization of purchased intangibles. For the fourth fiscal quarter, stock based compensation expense is expected to be approximately $22 million, and the expense associated with amortization of purchased intangibles, including that associated with the acquisition of InStranet, is expected to be approximately $4.2 million. For purposes of the Q4 GAAP fully diluted EPS calculation, the company is expecting an average diluted shares count of approximately 127 million shares, and a GAAP tax rate of 48%.
Q4 FY09
: The company is initiating revenue guidance for its full fiscal year 2010 with projected revenue in the range of $1.350 billion to $1.360 billion. The company expects to update this guidance, as well as provide its expectations for FY10 GAAP EPS when it announces its fourth quarter, fiscal year 2009 results planned for February, 2009.
Fiscal FY10
Quarterly Conference Call
Salesforce.com will host a conference call to discuss its third quarter fiscal 2009 results today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time. A live audio webcast of the conference call, together with detailed financial information, can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations Web site at http://www.salesforce.com/investor. In addition, an archive of the webcast can be accessed through the same link. Participants who choose to call in to the conference call can do so by dialing domestically (866)-901-SFDC or (866)-901-7332 and internationally (706)-902-1764, passcode salesforce.com or 72989815. A replay will be available at (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291, passcode 72989815, until midnight Eastern Time December 5, 2008.
About salesforce.com
Salesforce.com is the enterprise cloud computing company. The company's portfolio of SaaS applications, including its award-winning CRM, available at , has revolutionized the ways that customers manage and share business information over the Internet. The company's Force.com PaaS enables customers, developers and partners to build powerful on-demand applications that deliver the benefits of multi-tenancy across the enterprise. Applications built on the Force.com platform, available at , can be easily shared, exchanged and installed with a few simple clicks via salesforce.com's Force.com AppExchange marketplace available at .
http://www.salesforce.com/products/
http://www.force.com/
http://www.salesforce.com/appexchange/
As of October 31, 2008, salesforce.com manages customer information for approximately 51,800 customers including ABN AMRO, Dow Jones Newswires, Japan Post, Kaiser Permanente, KONE, Sprint Nextel, and SunTrust Banks. Any unreleased services or features referenced in this or other
press releases or public statements are not currently available and may not be delivered on time or at all. Customers who purchase salesforce.com applications should make their purchase decisions based upon features that are currently available. Salesforce.com has headquarters in San Francisco, with offices in Europe and Asia, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CRM". For more information please visit , or call 1-800-NO-SOFTWARE.
http://www.salesforce.com
"Safe harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This press release contains forward-looking statements about expected revenue and GAAP earnings per share for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009 and revenue for the full fiscal year 2010, and our expected tax rate, stock based compensation expense, amortization rate, and shares outstanding, the achievement of which involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If any such risks or uncertainties materialize or if any of the assumptions prove incorrect, our results could differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements we make.
The risks and uncertainties referred to above include - but are not limited to - risks associated with possible fluctuations in our financial and operating results, rate of growth and anticipated revenue run rate; errors, interruptions or delays in our service or our Web hosting; breaches of our security measures; the financial impact the acquisition of InStranet and any future acquisitions; the nature of our business model; our ability to continue to release, and gain customer acceptance of, new and improved versions of our service; successful customer deployment and utilization of our existing and future services; competition; various financial aspects of our subscription model; the emerging market in which we operate; our ability to hire, retain and motivate our employees and manage our growth; changes in our customer base; technological developments; regulatory developments; unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate; and fluctuations in the number of shares we have outstanding, the price of such shares, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and general developments in the economy, financial markets, and credit markets.
Further information on these and other factors that could affect our financial results is included in the reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our Form 10-Q that will be filed for the quarter ended October 31, 2008 and our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008. These documents are or will be available on the SEC Filings section of the Investor Information section of our website at www.salesforce.com/investor.
Salesforce.com, inc. assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
Copyright (c) 2008 salesforce.com, inc. All rights reserved. Salesforce and the "no software" logo are registered trademarks of salesforce.com, inc., and salesforce.com owns other registered and unregistered trademarks. Other names used herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
(in thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(in thousands)
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Additional Metrics
(Unaudited)
 


