FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20090820163343.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 20, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended July 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this current report on Form 8-K and the exhibits attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
David Havlek
salesforce.com
Investor Relations
415-536-2171
dhavlek@salesforce.com
Jane Hynes
salesforce.com
Public Relations
415-901-5079
jhynes@salesforce.com
 
Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM), the enterprise cloud computing company, today announced results for its fiscal second quarter ended July 31, 2009.
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif.  August 20, 2009 
"We are pleased to report record revenue and GAAP earnings per share for our fiscal second quarter," said Marc Benioff, chairman and CEO, salesforce.com. "We added 3,900 net new customers, bringing our total to more than 63,000, with our Service Cloud turning in its best quarter ever."
Salesforce.com delivered the following results for the second quarter:
: Total Q2 revenue was $316.1 million, an increase of 20% on a year-over-year basis. Subscription and support revenues were $293.4 million, an increase of 22% on a year-over-year basis. Professional services and other revenues were $22.6 million, a decrease of 3% on a year-over-year basis.
Revenue
Q2 GAAP diluted earnings per share were approximately $0.17, including approximately $20.9 million in stock based compensation expense and approximately $2.2 million in amortization of purchased intangibles related to previously announced acquisitions. For purposes of the Q2 GAAP EPS calculations, there was an average of approximately 127 million diluted shares outstanding during the quarter.
Earnings per Share:
: Net paying customers rose approximately 3,900 during the quarter to finish at approximately 63,200. Compared with the year ago quarter, net paying customers have grown by approximately 15,500 or 32%.
Customers
Cash from operations for the fiscal second quarter was approximately $45.9 million, down 14% year-over-year. Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities finished the quarter at approximately $1.03 billion, an increase of approximately $207 million from the year prior.
Cash:
: Deferred revenue on the balance sheet as of July 31, 2009 was $549 million, an increase of 14% on a year-over-year basis.
Deferred Revenue
As of August 20, 2009, salesforce.com is initiating guidance for its third quarter, fiscal year 2010. For its full fiscal year 2010, the company is raising its prior revenue guidance and EPS guidance.
: Revenue for the company's third fiscal quarter is projected to be in the range of approximately $323 million to approximately $324 million. GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of approximately $0.15 to approximately $0.16. Stock based compensation expense is expected to be approximately $20 million, and amortization of purchased intangibles of previously announced acquisitions is expected to be approximately $2.2 million. For purposes of the Q3 GAAP EPS calculation, the company is expecting an average diluted shares count of approximately 128 million shares, a GAAP tax rate of approximately 42% and a noncontrolling interest expense of approximately $600,000.
Q3 FY10
: The company today is raising the full year revenue guidance it provided on May 21, 2009, with revenue now expected to be approximately $1.27 billion to approximately $1.28 billion. The company is also raising its earnings outlook for the full year, expecting GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of approximately $0.60 to approximately $0.61. Stock based compensation expense is expected to be approximately $86 million, and amortization of purchased intangibles of previously announced acquisitions is currently expected to be approximately $9.3 million. For purposes of the full fiscal year 2010 GAAP EPS calculation, the company is expecting an average diluted shares count of approximately 127 million shares, a GAAP tax rate of approximately 42%, and a noncontrolling interest expense of approximately $2.8 million.
Full Year FY10
Quarterly Conference Call
Salesforce.com will host a conference call to discuss its second quarter fiscal 2010 results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time today. A live audio webcast of the conference call, together with detailed financial information, can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations Web site at http://www.salesforce.com/investor. In addition, an archive of the webcast can be accessed through the same link. Participants who choose to call in to the conference call can do so by dialing domestically 866-901-SFDC or 866-901-7332 and internationally 706-902-1764. A replay will be available at (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291, passcode 23838830, until midnight (EDT) September 10, 2009.
About salesforce.com
Salesforce.com is the enterprise cloud computing company. The company's portfolio of Salesforce CRM applications, available at http://www.salesforce.com/products/, has revolutionized the ways that companies collaborate and communicate with their customers across sales, marketing and service. The company's Force.com Platform (http://www.salesforce.com/platform/) enables customers, partners and developers to quickly build powerful business applications to run every part of the enterprise in the cloud. Based on salesforce.com's <http://salesforce.com> real-time, multi-tenant architecture, Salesforce CRM and Force.com offer the fastest path to customer success with cloud computing.
As of July 31, 2009, salesforce.com manages customer information for approximately 63,200 customers including Allianz Commercial, Dell, Dow Jones Newswires, Japan Post, Kaiser Permanente, KONE, and SunTrust Banks.
Any unreleased services or features referenced in this or other press releases or public statements are not currently available and may not be delivered on time or at all. Customers who purchase
salesforce.com applications should make their purchase decisions based upon features that are currently available. Salesforce.com has headquarters in San Francisco, with offices in Europe and Asia, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CRM". For more information please visit http://www.salesforce.com, or call 1-800-NO-SOFTWARE.
"Safe harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This press release contains forward-looking statements about expected revenue and GAAP earnings per share for the third fiscal quarter of 2010 and for the full fiscal year 2010, and our expected tax rate, stock based compensation expense, amortization expense, noncontrolling interest expense, and shares outstanding, the achievement of which involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If any such risks or uncertainties materialize or if any of the assumptions prove incorrect, our results could differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements we make.
The risks and uncertainties referred to above include  but are not limited to  risks associated with possible fluctuations in our financial and operating results, rate of growth and anticipated revenue run rate; errors, interruptions or delays in our service or our Web hosting; breaches of our security measures; the financial impact of any future acquisitions; the nature of our business model; our ability to continue to release, and gain customer acceptance of, new and improved versions of our service; successful customer deployment and utilization of our existing and future services; changes in our sales cycle; competition; various financial aspects of our subscription model; unexpected increases in attrition or decreases in new business; the emerging market in which we operate; our ability to hire, retain and motivate our employees and manage our growth; changes in our customer base; technological developments; regulatory developments; litigation; unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate; and fluctuations in the number of shares we have outstanding, the price of such shares, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and general developments in the economy, financial markets, and credit markets.
Further information on these and other factors that could affect our financial results is included in the reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including our Form 10-Q that will be filed for the quarter ended July 31, 2009 and our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009. These documents are available on the SEC Filings section of the Investor Information section of our website at www.salesforce.com/investor.
Salesforce.com, inc. assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
Copyright (c) 2009 salesforce.com, inc. All rights reserved. Salesforce and the "no software" logo are registered trademarks of salesforce.com, inc., and salesforce.com owns other registered and unregistered trademarks. Other names used herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
(in thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
As a percentage of total revenues:
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(in thousands)
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Additional Metrics
(Unaudited)
 
 


