FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20090402171234.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On March 29, 2009, the Board of Directors of salesforce.com, inc. (the "Company") amended its 2006 Inducement Equity Incentive Plan (the "2006 Plan") to increase the number of shares of its common stock reserved for issuance under the plan by an additional 300,000 shares. The 2006 Plan reserves shares of our common stock solely for the granting of inducement stock options and other awards. The 2006 Plan was adopted in April 2006 without stockholder approval in reliance on the "employment inducement exemption" provided under Rule 303A.08 of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual.
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 31, 2009, the Company awarded cash bonuses to its named executive officers. As discussed in the Company's Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 28, 2008, the bonus amounts were based primarily on the achievement of specific corporate and individual goals during its fiscal year 2009, from February 1, 2008 to January 31, 2009, net of mid-year bonus payouts made on September 30, 2008. The following table sets forth the bonus amounts paid on March 31, 2009 to the Company's named executive officers as approved by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors and the Company's Chief Executive Officer:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On March 29, 2009, the Company's Board of Directors amended and restated the Company's Bylaws (as amended and restated, the "Bylaws") to, among other things, revise, clarify and update the requirements that stockholders must satisfy in order to validly nominate directors for election at, and to propose other business intended to be brought before, stockholder meetings. The Bylaws were effective as of the date that they were adopted by the Board.
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Bylaws, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
1.1 . All meetings of stockholders of salesforce.com, inc. (the "Corporation") shall be held at such place within or without the State of Delaware as may be designated from time to time by the board of directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors") or the Chief Executive Officer.
Place of Meetings
1.2 . The annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting shall be held on a date to be fixed by the Board of Directors at the time and place to be fixed by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting.
Annual Meeting
1.3 . Special meetings of stockholders may be called at any time by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, for any purpose or purposes prescribed in the notice of the meeting and shall be held at such place, on such date and at such time as the Board may fix. Business transacted at any special meeting of stockholders shall be confined to the purpose or purposes stated in the notice of meeting.
Special Meetings
1.4 . Written notice of each meeting of stockholders, whether annual or special, shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date on which the meeting is to be held, to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting, except as otherwise provided herein or as required by law (meaning here and hereafter, as required from time to time by the Delaware General Corporation Law) or the Certificate of Incorporation. The notices of all meetings shall state the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting, the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting. The notice of a special meeting shall state, in addition, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. If mailed, notice is given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
Notice of Meetings
1.5 . The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare, at least ten (10) days before each meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, the Corporation's principal place of business. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time of the meeting, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. This list shall determine the identity of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting and the number of shares held by each of them.
Voting List
1.6 . Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of the capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at the meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If a quorum shall fail to attend any meeting, the Chairman of the meeting or the
Quorum
holders of a majority of the shares of capital stock entitled to vote who are present, in person or by proxy, may adjourn the meeting to another place, if any, date or time, or with another means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting.
If a notice of any adjourned special meeting of stockholders is sent to all stockholders entitled to vote thereat, stating that it will be held with those present at such adjourned meeting constituting a quorum, then except as otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, those present at such adjourned meeting shall constitute a quorum, and all matters shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast at such meeting.
1.7 . Any meeting of stockholders may be adjourned to any other place, if any, date or time at which a meeting of stockholders may be held under these Bylaws, or with any other means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, by the Chairman of the meeting or, in the absence of such person, by any officer entitled to preside at or to act as Secretary of such meeting, or by the holders of a majority of the shares of stock present or represented at the meeting and entitled to vote, although less than a quorum. When a meeting is adjourned to another place, if any, date or time, or with another means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, written notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the place, if any, date and time thereof and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken; provided, however, that if the date of any adjourned meeting is more than thirty (30) days after the date for which the meeting was originally noticed, or if a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, written notice of the place, if any, date and time of the adjourned meeting, and the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting, shall be given in conformity herewith. At the adjourned meeting, the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
Adjournments
1.8 . Each stockholder shall have one vote for each share of stock entitled to vote held of record by such stockholder and a proportionate vote for each fractional share so held, unless otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation. Each stockholder of record entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may vote in person or may authorize any other person or persons to vote or act for him by written proxy executed by the stockholder or his or her authorized agent or by a transmission permitted by law or the Certificate of Incorporation and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. No stockholder may authorize more than one proxy for his or her shares. Any copy, facsimile or other electronic transmission or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission created pursuant to this Section may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile or other electronic transmission or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
Voting and Proxies
1.9 . When a quorum is present at any meeting, any election of directors shall be determined by a plurality of the votes cast by the stockholders entitled to vote at the election, and all other matters shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast affirmatively or negatively on the matter (or if there are two or more classes of stock entitled to vote as separate classes, then in the case of each such class, a majority of each such class present or represented and voting affirmatively or negatively on the matter) shall decide such matter, except when a different vote is required by express provision of law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
Action at Meeting
 
All voting, including on the election of directors, but excepting where otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, may be by a voice vote; provided, however, that upon demand therefor by a stockholder entitled to vote or his or her proxy, a stock vote shall be taken. Every stock vote shall be taken by ballot, each of which shall state the name of the stockholder or proxy voting and such other information as may be required under the procedure established for the meeting. Every vote taken by ballot shall be counted by an inspector or inspectors appointed by the Chairman of the meeting. The Corporation may, and to the extent required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. The Corporation may designate one or more persons as an alternate inspector to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting may, and to the extent required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, shall, appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to faithfully execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability.
1.10 .
Advance Notice of Stockholder Business
(a) At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be brought: (1) pursuant to the Corporation's proxy materials with respect to such meeting, (2) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (3) by a stockholder of the Corporation who (A) is a stockholder of record at the time of the giving of the notice required by this 1.10(a) and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the annual meeting and (B) has timely complied in proper written form with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.10(a). In addition, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action pursuant to these Bylaws, the Certificate of Incorporation or applicable laws.
(i) To comply with clause (3)(B) of Section 1.10(a) above, a stockholder's notice must set forth all information required under this Section 1.10(a) and must be timely received by the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the 45th day nor earlier than the 75th day before the one-year anniversary of the date on which the Corporation first mailed its proxy materials or a notice of availability of proxy materials (whichever is earlier) for the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that no annual meeting was held in the previous year or if the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 60 days after the one-year anniversary of the date of the previous year's annual meeting, then, for notice by the stockholder to be timely, it must be so received by the Secretary not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of (x) the 90th day prior to such annual meeting, or (y) the tenth day following the day on which Public Announcement (as defined below) of the date of such annual meeting is first made. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described in this Section 1.10(a)(i). "Public Announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or a comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor thereto (the "1934 Act").
 
(ii) To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary of the Corporation must set forth as to each matter of business the stockholder intends to bring before the annual meeting: (1) a brief description of the business intended to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (2) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business and any Stockholder Associated Person (as defined below), (3) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are held of record or are beneficially owned by the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person and any derivative positions held or beneficially held by the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person, (4) whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person with respect to any securities of the corporation, and a description of any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares), the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, or to manage the risk or benefit from share price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person with respect to any securities of the Corporation, (5) any material interest of the stockholder or a Stockholder Associated Person in such business, and (6) a statement whether either such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person will deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's voting shares required under applicable law to carry the proposal (such information provided and statements made as required by clauses (1) through (6), a "Business Solicitation Statement"). In addition, to be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be supplemented not later than ten days following the record date to disclose the information contained in clauses (3) and (4) above as of the record date. A "Stockholder Associated Person" of any stockholder shall mean (A) any person controlling, directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with, such stockholder, (B) any beneficial owner of shares of stock of the Corporation owned of record or beneficially by such stockholder and on whose behalf the proposal or nomination, as the case may be, is being made, or (C) any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such person referred to in the preceding clauses (A) and (B).
(iii) Without exception, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section 1.10(a) and, if applicable, Section 2.15(a) below. In addition, business proposed to be brought by a stockholder may not be brought before the annual meeting if such stockholder or a Stockholder Associated Person, as applicable, takes action contrary to the representations made in the Business Solicitation Statement applicable to such business or if the Business Solicitation Statement applicable to such business contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. The Chairman of the annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the annual meeting that any proposed item of business was not properly brought before the annual meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 1.10(a), and, if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare at the annual meeting that any such business not properly brought before the annual meeting shall not be transacted.
(b) In addition to the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.10, a stockholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of law and of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 1.10, including, with respect to business such stockholder intends to bring before the annual meeting that involves a proposal that such stockholder requests to be included in the Corporation's proxy statement, the requirements of Rule 14a-8 (or any successor provision) under the 1934 Act. Nothing in this Section 1.10 shall be deemed to affect any right of the Corporation to omit a proposal from the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 (or any successor provision) under the 1934 Act.
 
1.11 . At every meeting of the stockholders, the Chairman of the Board, or, in his or her absence, the Chief Executive Officer, or, in his or her absence, such other person as may be appointed by the Board of Directors, shall act as Chairman of the meeting. The Secretary of the Corporation or a person designated by the Chairman of the meeting shall act as Secretary of the meeting. Unless otherwise approved by the Chairman of the meeting, attendance at the stockholders' meeting is restricted to stockholders of record, persons authorized in accordance with Section 1.8 of these Bylaws to act by proxy, and officers of the Corporation.
Conduct of Business
The Chairman of the meeting shall call the meeting to order, establish the agenda, and conduct the business of the meeting in accordance therewith or, at the Chairman's discretion, it may be conducted otherwise in accordance with the wishes of the stockholders in attendance. The date and time of the opening and closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at the meeting shall be announced at the meeting.
The Chairman shall also conduct the meeting in an orderly manner, rule on the precedence of, and procedure on, motions and other procedural matters, and exercise discretion with respect to such procedural matters with fairness and good faith toward all those entitled to take part. The Chairman may impose reasonable limits on the amount of time taken up at the meeting on discussion in general or on remarks by any one stockholder. Should any person in attendance become unruly or obstruct the meeting proceedings, the Chairman shall have the power to have such person removed from participation. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at a meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.11 and Section 1.10 above. The Chairman of a meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the meeting that any proposed item of business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 1.11 and Section 1.10, and if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare at the meeting that any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
1.12 . Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series of preferred stock or any other class of stock or series thereof having a preference over the common stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such stockholders.
Stockholder Action Without Meeting
1.13 . If authorized by the Board of Directors, and subject to such guidelines and procedures as the Board may adopt, stockholders and proxy holders not physically present at a meeting of stockholders may, by means of remote communication, participate in the meeting and be deemed present in person and vote at the meeting, whether such meeting is to be held at a designated place or solely by means of remote communication, provided that (i) the Corporation shall implement reasonable measures to verify that each person deemed present and permitted to vote at the meeting by means of remote communication is a stockholder or proxy holder, (ii) the Corporation shall implement reasonable measures to provide such stockholders and proxy holders a reasonable opportunity to participate in the meeting and to vote on matters submitted to the stockholders, including an opportunity to read or hear the proceedings of the meeting substantially concurrently with such proceedings, and (iii) if any stockholder or proxy holder votes or takes other action at the meeting by means of remote communication, the Corporation shall maintain a record of such vote.
Meetings by Remote Communication
 
2.1 . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors, who may exercise all of the powers of the Corporation except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation. In the event of a vacancy in the Board of Directors, the remaining directors, except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, may exercise the powers of the full Board until the vacancy is filled.
General Powers
2.2 . The number of directors shall initially be seven (7) and, thereafter, shall be fixed from time to time exclusively by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors (whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships at the time any such resolution is presented to the Board for adoption). The directors are divided into three classes, with the term of office of the first class to expire at the first annual meeting of stockholders held after the date of the closing of the Corporation's initial public offering of its common stock (the "Effective Date"); the term of office of the second class to expire at the second annual meeting of stockholders held after the Effective Date; the term of office of the third class to expire at the third annual meeting of stockholders held after the Effective Date; and thereafter for each such term to expire at each third succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after such election. All directors shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which elected and until their respective successors are elected, except in the case of the death, resignation or removal of any director.
Number and Term of Office
2.3 . Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series of preferred stock or any other class of stock or series thereof having a preference over the common stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or any vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or other cause (including removal from office by a vote of the stockholders) may be filled only by a majority vote of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of office of the class to which they have been elected expires and until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships
2.4 . Any director may resign by delivering notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or Secretary. Such resignation shall be effective upon receipt unless it is specified to be effective at some later time or upon the happening of some other event. A resignation which is conditioned upon the director failing to receive a specified vote for reelection as a director may provide that it is irrevocable. Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, when one or more directors resign from the Board of Directors, effective at a future date, a majority of the directors then in office, including those who have so resigned, shall have power to fill such vacancy or vacancies, the vote thereon to take effect when such resignation or resignations shall become effective.
Resignation
2.5 . Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series of preferred stock or any other class of stock or series thereof having a preference over the common stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, any directors, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause, by the affirmative vote of the holders of sixty six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. Vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from such
Removal
 
removal may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of office of the class to which they have been elected expires and until their respective successors shall have been duly elected and qualified.
2.6 . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors; provided that any director who is absent when such a determination is made shall be given notice of the determination. A regular meeting of the Board of Directors may be held without notice immediately after and at the same place as the annual meeting of stockholders.
Regular Meetings
2.7 . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or two or more directors and may be held at any time and place, within or without the State of Delaware.
Special Meetings
2.8 . Notice of any special meeting of directors shall be given to each director by the Secretary or by the officer or one of the directors calling the meeting. Notice shall be duly given to each director by (i) giving notice to such director in person or by telephone, electronic transmission or voice message system at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting, (ii) sending a facsimile, or delivering written notice by hand, to his or her last known business or home address at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting, or (iii) mailing written notice to his or her last known business or home address at least three (3) days in advance of the meeting. A notice or waiver of notice of a meeting of the Board of Directors need not specify the purposes of the meeting. Unless otherwise indicated in the notice thereof, any and all business may be transacted at a special meeting.
Notice of Special Meetings
2.9 . Directors or any members of any committee designated by the directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Participation in Meetings by Telephone Conference Calls or Other Methods of Communication
2.10 . A majority of the total number of authorized directors shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of the Board of Directors. In the event one or more of the directors shall be disqualified to vote at any meeting, then the required quorum shall be reduced by one for each such director so disqualified; provided, however, that in no case shall less than 1/3 of the number so fixed constitute a quorum. A meeting at which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact business notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors, if any action taken is approved by at least a majority of the required quorum for that meeting. In the absence of a quorum at any such meeting, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present. Interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or at a meeting of a committee which authorizes a particular contract or transaction.
Quorum
2.11 . At any meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum is present, the vote of a majority of those present shall be sufficient to take any action, unless a different vote is specified by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
Action at Meeting
 
2.12 . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent to the action in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writings or electronic transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee. Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form.
Action by Written Consent
2.13 . The Board of Directors may designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation, with such lawfully delegated powers and duties as it therefor confers, to serve at the pleasure of the Board. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members of the committee present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he, she or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors and subject to the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Each such committee shall keep minutes and make such reports as the Board of Directors may from time to time request. Except as the Board of Directors may otherwise determine, any committee may make rules for the conduct of its business, but unless otherwise provided by such rules, its business shall be conducted as nearly as possible in the same manner as is provided in these Bylaws for the Board of Directors.
Committees
2.14 . Directors may be paid such compensation for their services and such reimbursement for expenses of attendance at meetings as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation or any of its parent or subsidiary corporations in any other capacity and receiving compensation for such service.
Compensation of Directors
2.15 .
Nomination of Director Candidates
(a) . Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.15(a) shall be eligible for election or re-election as directors at an annual meeting of stockholders. Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series of preferred stock or any other class of stock or series thereof having a preference over the common stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nominations of persons for election or re-election as directors at an annual meeting may be made only (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (2) by a stockholder of the Corporation who (A) was a stockholder of record at the time of the giving of the notice required by this Section 2.15(a) and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the annual meeting and (B) has timely complied in proper written form with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.15(a).
Advance Notice of Director Nominations at Annual Meetings
(i) To comply with clause (2)(B) of Section 2.15(a) above, a nomination to be made by a stockholder must set forth all information required under this Section 2.15(a) and must be received by the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation at the time set forth in, and in accordance with, the final three sentences of Section 1.10(a)(i) above.
 
(ii) To be in proper written form, such stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth:
(1) as to each person (a "nominee") whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director: (A) the name, age, business address and residence address of the nominee, (B) the principal occupation or employment of the nominee, (C) the class and number of shares of the Corporation that are held of record or are beneficially owned by the nominee and any derivative positions held or beneficially held by the nominee, (D) whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of the nominee with respect to any securities of the Corporation, and a description of any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares), the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, or to manage the risk or benefit of share price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of the nominee, (E) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nominations are to be made by the stockholder, (F) a written statement executed by the nominee acknowledging that as a director of the Corporation, the nominee will owe a fiduciary duty under Delaware law with respect to the Corporation and its stockholders, and (G) any other information relating to the nominee that would be required to be disclosed about such nominee if proxies were being solicited for the election of the nominee as a director, or that is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the 1934 Act (including without limitation the nominee's written consent to being named in the proxy statement, if any, as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and
(2) as to such stockholder giving notice, (A) the information required to be provided pursuant to clauses (2) through (5) of Section 1.10(a)(ii) above, and the supplement referenced in the second sentence of Section 1.10(a)(ii) above (except that the references to "business" in such clauses shall instead refer to nominations of directors for purposes of this paragraph), and (B) a statement whether either such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person will deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of a number of the Corporation's voting shares reasonably believed by such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person to be necessary to elect such nominee(s) (such information provided and statements made as required by clauses (A) and (B) above, a "Nominee Solicitation Statement").
(iii) At the request of the Board of Directors, any person nominated by a stockholder for election as a director must furnish to the Secretary of the Corporation (1) that information required to be set forth in the stockholder's notice of nomination of such person as a director as of a date subsequent to the date on which the notice of such person's nomination was given and (2) such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee; in the absence of the furnishing of such information if requested, such stockholder's nomination shall not be considered in proper form pursuant to this Section 2.15(a).
(iv) Without exception, no person shall be eligible for election or re-election as a director of the Corporation at an annual meeting of stockholders unless nominated in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section 2.15(a). In addition, a nominee shall not be eligible for election or re-election if a stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person, as applicable, takes action contrary to the representations made in the Nominee Solicitation Statement applicable to such nominee or if the Nominee Solicitation Statement applicable to such nominee contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. The Chairman of the annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the annual meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.15(a), and if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare at the annual meeting, and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 
(b) . For a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to Section 1.3 above, nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors shall be made only (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (2) by any stockholder of the corporation who (A) is a stockholder of record at the time of the giving of the notice required by this Section 2.15(b) and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the special meeting and (B) delivers a timely written notice of the nomination to the Secretary of the Corporation that includes the information set forth in Sections 2.15(a)(ii) and (a)(iii) above. To be timely, such notice must be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which Public Announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the board of directors to be elected at such meeting. A person shall not be eligible for election or re-election as a director at a special meeting unless the person is nominated (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by a stockholder in accordance with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.15(b). In addition, a nominee shall not be eligible for election or re-election if a stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person, as applicable, takes action contrary to the representations made in the Nominee Solicitation Statement applicable to such nominee or if the Nominee Solicitation Statement applicable to such nominee contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. The Chairman of the special meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the special meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.15(b), and if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare at the annual meeting, and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
Advance Notice of Director Nominations for Special Meetings
(c) In addition to the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.15, a stockholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of state law and of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 2.15. Nothing in this Section 2.15 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 (or any successor provision) under the 1934 Act.
(d) Only persons nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.15 shall be eligible to serve as directors. Except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, the Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (a) to determine whether a nomination was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.15 and (b) if any proposed nomination was not made in compliance with this Section 2.15, to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded.
3.1 . The officers of the Corporation shall consist of a Chief Executive Officer, one or more Presidents, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer, a Treasurer and such other officers with such other titles as the Board of Directors shall determine, including, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, a Chairman of the Board, and one or more Vice Presidents and Assistant Secretaries. The Board of Directors may appoint such other officers as it may deem appropriate.
Enumeration
3.2 . Officers shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at its first meeting following the annual meeting of stockholders. Officers may be appointed by the Board of Directors at any other meeting.
Election
 
3.3 . No officer need be a stockholder. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Qualification
3.4 . Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, each officer shall hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified, unless a different term is specified in the vote appointing him, or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.
Tenure
3.5 . Any officer may resign by delivering his or her written resignation to the Corporation at its principal office or to the Chief Executive Officer or Secretary. Such resignation shall be effective upon receipt unless it is specified to be effective at some other time or upon the happening of some other event. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the Board of Directors.
Resignation and Removal
3.6 . The Board of Directors may appoint a Chairman of the Board. If the Board of Directors appoints a Chairman of the Board, he or she shall perform such duties and possess such powers as are assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors. Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, he or she shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders, and, if he or she is a director, at all meetings of the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board
3.7 . The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, have responsibility for the general management and control of the business and affairs of the Corporation and shall perform all duties and have all powers which are commonly incident to the office of Chief Executive Office or which are delegated to him or her by the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall, in the Chairman of the Board's absence or because of the Chairman of the Board's inability to act, perform all duties of the Chairman of the Board and preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of stockholders. The Chief Executive Officer shall have the power to act as the President of the Corporation for any action that is required to be performed by a president of a corporation under the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Certificate of Incorporation or other applicable law. The Chief Executive Officer shall perform such other duties and shall have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. He or she shall have power to sign stock certificates, contracts and other instruments of the Corporation which are authorized and shall have general supervision and direction of all of the other officers, employees and agents of the Corporation, other than the Chairman of the Board.
Chief Executive Officer
3.8 . Any President shall perform such duties and possess such powers as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time prescribe. In the event of the absence, inability or refusal to act of the Chief Executive Officer, the President (or if there shall be more than one, the Presidents in the order determined by the Board of Directors), or any other person as determined by the Board of Directors, shall perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer and when so performing shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chief Executive Officer.
Presidents
3.9 . Any Vice President shall perform such duties and possess such powers as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time prescribe. In the event of the absence, inability or refusal to act of the President, the Vice President (or if there shall be more than one, the Vice Presidents in the order determined by the Board of Directors) shall perform the duties of the President and when so performing shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President. The Board of Directors may assign to any Vice President the title of Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President or any other title selected by the Board of Directors.
Vice Presidents
 
3.10 . The Secretary shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time prescribe. In addition, the Secretary shall perform such duties and have such powers as are incident to the office of the Secretary, including, without limitation, the duty and power to give notices of all meetings of stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, to keep a record of the proceedings of all meetings of stockholders and the Board of Directors, to maintain a stock ledger and prepare lists of stockholders and their addresses as required, to be custodian of corporate records and the corporate seal and to affix and attest to the same on documents.
Secretary and Assistant Secretaries
Any Assistant Secretary shall perform such duties and possess such powers as the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Secretary may from time to time prescribe. In the event of the absence, inability or refusal to act of the Secretary, the Assistant Secretary (or if there shall be more than one, the Assistant Secretaries in the order determined by the Board of Directors) shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Secretary.
In the absence of the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary at any meeting of stockholders or directors, the person presiding at the meeting shall designate a temporary secretary to keep a record of the meeting.
3.11 . Unless otherwise designated by the Board of Directors, the Chief Financial Officer shall be the Treasurer. The Chief Financial Officer shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as may from time to time be assigned to him by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. In addition, the Chief Financial Officer shall perform such duties and have such powers as are incident to the office of chief financial officer, including without limitation, the duty and power to keep and be responsible for all funds and securities of the Corporation, to maintain the financial records of the Corporation, to deposit funds of the Corporation in depositories as authorized, to disburse such funds as authorized, to make proper accounts of such funds, and to render as required by the Board of Directors accounts of all such transactions and of the financial condition of the Corporation.
Chief Financial Officer
3.12 . Officers of the Corporation shall be entitled to such salaries, compensation or reimbursement as shall be fixed or allowed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Salaries
3.13 . The Board of Directors may from time to time delegate the powers or duties of any officer to any other officers or agents, notwithstanding any provision hereof.
Delegation of Authority
4.1 . Unless otherwise voted by the stockholders and subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, the whole or any part of any unissued balance of the authorized capital stock of the Corporation or the whole or any part of any unissued balance of the authorized capital stock of the Corporation held in its treasury may be issued, sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of by vote of the Board of Directors in such manner, for such consideration and on such terms as the Board of Directors may determine.
Issuance of Stock
 
4.2 . The shares of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the Corporation's stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Every holder of stock of the Corporation represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate, in such form as may be prescribed by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation and by the Board of Directors, certifying the number and class of shares owned by him or her in the Corporation. Each such certificate shall be signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by, the Chairman or Vice Chairman, if any, of the Board of Directors, or a President or a Vice President, and the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile.
Certificates of Stock
Shares of stock which are subject to any restriction on transfer pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, applicable securities laws or any agreement among any number of shareholders or among such holders and the Corporation shall (i) in the case of stock that is certificated, have conspicuously noted on the face or back of the certificate either the full text of the restriction or a statement of the existence of such restriction, and (ii) in the case that stock that is uncertificated, have such restrictions on transfer implemented in accordance with applicable law, rules and regulations.
4.3 . Except as otherwise established by rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Directors, and subject to applicable law, shares of stock may be transferred on the books of the Corporation by the record holder of such stock or by his or her attorney lawfully constituted in writing and, if such stock is certificated, upon the surrender to the Corporation or its transfer agent of the certificate representing such shares properly endorsed or accompanied by a written assignment or power of attorney properly executed, and with such proof of authority or authenticity of signature as the Corporation or its transfer agent may reasonably require. Except as may be otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the Corporation shall be entitled to treat the record holder of stock as shown on its books as the owner of such stock for all purposes, including the payment of dividends and the right to vote with respect to such stock, regardless of any transfer, pledge or other disposition of such stock until the shares have been transferred on the books of the Corporation in accordance with the requirements of these Bylaws.
Transfers
4.4 . The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in place of any previously issued certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed, upon such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors may prescribe, including the presentation of reasonable evidence of such loss, theft or destruction and the giving of such indemnity as the Board of Directors may require for the protection of the Corporation or any transfer agent or registrar.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
4.5 . The Board of Directors may fix in advance a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights in respect of any change, concession or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action. Such record date shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action to which such record date relates.
Record Date
 
If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day before the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day before the day on which the meeting is held. The record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating to such purpose.
A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
5.1 . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be as fixed by the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
5.2 . The corporate seal shall be in such form as shall be approved by the Board of Directors.
Corporate Seal
5.3 . Whenever any notice whatsoever is required to be given by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a waiver of such notice either in writing signed by the person entitled to such notice or such person's duly authorized attorney, or by electronic transmission or any other method permitted under the Delaware General Corporation Law, whether before, at or after the time stated in such waiver, or the appearance of such person or persons at such meeting in person or by proxy, shall be deemed equivalent to such notice.
Waiver of Notice
5.4 . Except as the Board of Directors may otherwise designate, the Chief Executive Officer or President or any officer of the Corporation authorized by the Chief Executive Officer or President shall have the power to vote and otherwise act on behalf of the Corporation, in person or proxy, and may waive notice of, and act as, or appoint any person or persons to act as, proxy or attorney-in-fact to this Corporation (with or without power of substitution) at any meeting of stockholders or shareholders (or with respect to any action of stockholders) of any other corporation or organization, the securities of which may be held by this Corporation and otherwise to exercise any and all rights and powers which this Corporation may possess by reason of this Corporation's ownership of securities in such other corporation or other organization.
Actions with Respect to Securities of Other Corporations
5.5 . A certificate by the Secretary, or an Assistant Secretary, or a temporary Secretary, as to any action taken by the stockholders, directors, a committee or any officer or representative of the Corporation shall as to all persons who rely on the certificate in good faith be conclusive evidence of such action.
Evidence of Authority
5.6 . All references in these Bylaws to the Certificate of Incorporation shall be deemed to refer to the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended and in effect from time to time.
Certificate of Incorporation
5.7 . Any determination that any provision of these Bylaws is for any reason inapplicable, illegal or ineffective shall not affect or invalidate any other provision of these Bylaws.
Severability
 
5.8 . All pronouns used in these Bylaws shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine or neuter, singular or plural, as the identity of the person or persons may require.
Pronouns
5.9 . Except as otherwise specifically provided herein or required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, all notices required to be given to any stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent shall be in writing and may in every instance be effectively given by hand delivery to the recipient thereof, by depositing such notice in the mails, postage paid, or by sending such notice by facsimile or other electronic transmission in the manner provided in Section 232 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or by commercial courier service. Any such notice shall be addressed to such stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent at his or her last known address as the same appears on the books of the Corporation. The time when such notice shall be deemed to be given shall be the time such notice is received by such stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent, or by any person accepting such notice on behalf of such person, if delivered by hand, facsimile, other electronic transmission or commercial courier service, or the time such notice is dispatched, if delivered through the mails.
Notices
5.10 . Each director, each member of any committee designated by the Board of Directors, and each officer of the Corporation shall, in the performance of his or her duties, be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the books of account or other records of the Corporation, including reports made to the Corporation by any of its officers, by an independent certified public accountant, or by an appraiser selected with reasonable care.
Reliance Upon Books, Reports and Records
5.11 . In applying any provision of these Bylaws which require that an act be done or not done a specified number of days prior to an event or that an act be done during a period of a specified number of days prior to an event, calendar days shall be used, the day of the doing of the act shall be excluded, and the day of the event shall be included.
Time Periods
5.12 . In addition to the provisions for use of facsimile signatures elsewhere specifically authorized in these Bylaws, facsimile signatures of any officer or officers of the Corporation may be used whenever and as authorized by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof.
Facsimile Signatures
6.1 . Except as is otherwise set forth in these Bylaws, these Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed or new Bylaws may be adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum is present.
By the Board of Directors
6.2 . Except as otherwise set forth in these Bylaws, these Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed or new Bylaws may be adopted by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least sixty six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the shares of the capital stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at any annual meeting of stockholders, or at any special meeting of stockholders, provided notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new Bylaws shall have been stated in the notice of such special meeting.
By the Stockholders
 
7.1 . Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative ("proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, or as a controlling person of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director or officer, or in any other capacity while serving as a director or officer, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said Law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) against all expenses, liability and loss reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in Section 7.2 of this Article VII, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnity in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if (a) such indemnification is expressly required to be made by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, (b) the proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (c) such indemnification is provided by the Corporation, in its sole discretion, pursuant to the powers vested in the Corporation under the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (d) the proceeding (or part thereof) is brought to establish or enforce a right to indemnification under an indemnity agreement or any other statute or law or otherwise as required under Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. The rights hereunder shall be contract rights and shall include the right to be paid expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that, unless the Delaware General Corporation Law then so prohibits, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer of the Corporation in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is tendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of such proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it should be determined ultimately that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section or otherwise.
Right to Indemnification
7.2 . If a claim under Section 7.1 is not paid in full by the Corporation within ninety (90) days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if such suit is not frivolous or brought in bad faith, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any, has been tendered to this Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible under the Delaware General Corporation Law for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
Right of Claimant to Bring Suit
 
7.3 . The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and to the advancement of related expenses, to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article with respect to the indemnification of and advancement of expenses to directors and officers of the Corporation.
Indemnification of Employees and Agents
7.4 . The rights conferred on any person in Sections 7.1 and 7.2 shall not be exclusive of any other right which such persons may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, bylaw, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
7.5 . The Board of Directors is authorized to enter into a contract with any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or any person serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including employee benefit plans, providing for indemnification rights equivalent to or, if the Board of Directors so determines, greater than, those provided for in this Article VII.
Indemnification Contracts
7.6 . The Corporation shall maintain insurance to the extent reasonably available, at its expense, to protect itself and any such director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any such expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Insurance
7.7 . Any amendment, repeal or modification of any provision of this Article VII by the stockholders and the directors of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director or officer of the Corporation existing at the time of such amendment, repeal or modification.
Effect of Amendment
 


