FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20100421123556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 21, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing that it has entered into a definite agreement to acquire Jigsaw Data Corporation. A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Salesforce.com [NYSE: CRM], the enterprise cloud computing () company, today announced it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Jigsaw, the leader in crowd-sourced data services in the cloud. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions.
San Francisco, April 21, 2010
http://www.salesforce.com/cloudcomputing/
Jigsaw's unique Wikipedia-style crowd-sourcing model delivers the world's most complete, accurate and up-to-date business contact data. Since Jigsaw's offering is delivered in the cloud, companies can focus on realizing success instead of focusing on legacy enterprise data management models that require expensive integration and continuous, dedicated maintenance. The acquisition will combine the power of salesforce.com's suite of CRM applications and leading enterprise cloud platform with Jigsaw's cloud-based model for the automation of acquiring, completing and cleansing business contact data. Jigsaw's data cloud platform also creates an enormous opportunity for developers and independent software vendors to deliver entirely new applications that leverage the business contact data found in Jigsaw. The proposed acquisition will mark salesforce.com's strategic entry into the $3 billion market for cloud-based business to business data services, and will create new opportunities for salesforce.com to partner with information services companies like D&B, Hoover's and LexisNexis.
Companies and professionals, whether or not already salesforce.com customers, can become members of the Jigsaw community by sharing common contact data that is found on a business card, including name, title, company, mailing address, business telephone number and e-mail address. Any Jigsaw.com community member can access the database, and can accumulate points through helping to maintain data quality. These points may be redeemed for access to additional records. In addition, companies or professionals may utilize the Jigsaw service by purchasing contact data. Jigsaw also offers premium automated data cleansing services to update and enrich data critical to success for any CRM deployment for a subscription-based fee. Jigsaw sets the standard among business contact data service providers by allowing business professionals included in the database to easily edit their information, set their contact preferences or if they choose, opt out of the listing.
Comments on the News
 
 
Salesforce.com to Deliver the Business Contact Data Critical to CRM Success
The process of trying to acquire, complete and cleanse business contact data is far too taxing and inefficient to meet the modern needs of companies in today's competitive marketplace. Historically, companies have spent vast amounts of time and resources to build a database of complete contact information for their sales organization only to see its quality quickly deteriorate. With the integrated Jigsaw and salesforce.com solution, companies will be able to better acquire and cleanse all business contact data. While Jigsaw will remain open to all CRM systems, current salesforce.com customers will find an integrated experience that includes an automated process for data cleansing. In addition, since Jigsaw products are already integrated with salesforce.com technologies, when Salesforce Chatter becomes generally available later this year, users will be able to receive real-time feeds when data changes or requires cleansing.
Jigsaw's tremendous success has been fueled by its vibrant community of more than 1.2 million members. Over the last six years, community members have built and maintained a contact database of more than 21 million professionals at nearly 4 million companies. The proposed acquisition will extend and accelerate the community's growth. Jigsaw currently has 800 corporate customers like New Horizons Computer Learning Centers, Hackett Group and Sales Performance International.
Acquisition Marks Salesforce.com's Strategic Entry into $3B Cloud-Based Data Services Market
Spurred by the success and widespread adoption of cloud computing applications, platforms and collaboration technology, businesses of all sizes across all industries are now turning to the cloud to buy data. In acquiring the San Mateo-based Jigsaw, salesforce.com will make a strategic entry into the $3 billion market. Salesforce.com's entry into the market creates new opportunities for the company to expand partnerships with data service providers like D&B, Hoover's and LexisNexis, opening up entirely new revenue streams for the company.
Details Regarding the Proposed Jigsaw Acquisition:
 
 
Financial Impact of Proposed Jigsaw Transaction to Salesforce.com Reported FY11 Results (assuming a Q2FY11 close date):
 
 
Outlook:
 
Salesforce.com will host a conference call at 8:30 AM (ET) / 5:30 AM (PT), April 21, 2010, to discuss the definitive agreement to acquire Jigsaw with the investment community. A live web broadcast of the event will be available on the salesforce.com Investor Relations Website at . A live dial-in is available domestically at (866) 901-SFDC or (866) 901-7332 and internationally at (706) 902-1764. A replay will be available at (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291, passcode 70466135, until midnight (ET) May 7, 2010.
http://www.salesforce.com/investor
About salesforce.com
Salesforce.com is the enterprise cloud computing company. Based on salesforce.com's real-time, multitenant architecture, the company's platform and CRM applications () have revolutionized the way companies collaborate and communicate with their customers, including:
http://www.salesforce.com/crm
 
 
 
 
 
Salesforce.com offers the fastest path to customer success with cloud computing. As of January 31, 2010, salesforce.com manages customer information for approximately 72,500 customers including Allianz Commercial, Dell, Japan Post, Kaiser Permanente, KONE, and SunTrust Banks.
Any unreleased services or features referenced in this or other press releases or public statements are not currently available and may not be delivered on time or at all. Customers who purchase salesforce.com applications should make their purchase decisions based upon features that are currently available. Salesforce.com has headquarters in San Francisco, with offices in Europe and Asia, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CRM." For more information please visit , or call 1-800-NO-SOFTWARE.
http://www.salesforce.com
###


