FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20100224163244.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 24, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended January 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this current report on Form 8-K and the exhibits attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
David Havlek
salesforce.com
Investor Relations
415-536-2171
dhavlek@salesforce.com
Jane Hynes
salesforce.com
Public Relations
415-901-5079
jhynes@salesforce.com
 
Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM), the enterprise cloud computing company, today announced results for its fiscal fourth quarter and full fiscal year ended January 31, 2010.
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif.  February 24, 2010 
"As our full year results demonstrate, the movement to Cloud Computing is driving exceptional growth for salesforce.com," said Marc Benioff, chairman and CEO, salesforce.com. "Our Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, and Custom Cloud businesses all delivered outstanding results. And the story is getting better: last week we launched a private beta program for Salesforce Chatter, allowing customers to experience first hand the next generation business collaboration model  a powerful alternative to legacy products such as Lotus Notes and Microsoft SharePoint  by delivering on the social models made popular by Facebook and Twitter."
Salesforce.com delivered the following results for its fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2010:
: Total Q4 revenue was $354.0 million, an increase of 22% on a year-over-year basis. Subscription and support revenues were $327.4 million, an increase of 23% on a year-over-year basis. Professional services and other revenues were $26.7 million, an increase of 14% on a year-over-year basis.
Revenue
For the full fiscal year 2010, the company reported revenue of $1.306 billion, an increase of 21% from the prior year. Subscription and support revenues were $1.209 billion, an increase of 23% on a year-over-year basis. Professional services and other revenues were $96.1 million, an increase of 4% on a year-over-year basis.
Q4 GAAP diluted earnings per share rose 41% year-over-year to $0.16, including $25.9 million in stock-based compensation expense and approximately $2.9 million in amortization of purchased intangibles related to previously announced acquisitions. For purposes of the Q4 GAAP EPS calculation, there was an average of 131 million diluted shares outstanding during the quarter.
Earnings per Share:
For the full fiscal year 2010, GAAP diluted earnings per share rose 82% year-over-year to $0.63, including $88.9 million in stock-based compensation and approximately $10.2 million in amortization of purchased intangibles related to previously announced acquisitions. For purposes of the GAAP EPS calculation, there was an average of approximately 128 million diluted shares outstanding during the year.
: Net paying customers rose approximately 4,600 during the quarter to finish at approximately 72,500, an increase of 31% for the full year. During FY2010, the company added approximately 17,100 net new customers.
Customers
Cash generated from operations for the fiscal fourth quarter was $92 million, up 21% year-over-year. For the full year, operating cash flow totaled $271 million, up 18% year-over-year. Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities finished the year at $1.7 billion, an increase of approximately $844 million from the year prior and includes approximately $500 million in net proceeds from the company's convertible senior note financing in January 2010.
Cash:
: Deferred revenue on the balance sheet as of January 31, 2010 was $704 million, an increase of 19% on a year-over-year basis.
Deferred Revenue
As of February 24, 2010, salesforce.com is initiating guidance for its first quarter, fiscal year 2011. For fiscal year 2011, the company is raising its prior revenue guidance and initiating EPS guidance. Furthermore, beginning with the announcement of its first quarter, fiscal year 2011 results, the company will be reporting selected non-GAAP financial results along with its GAAP results.
: Revenue for the company's first fiscal quarter is projected to be in the range of approximately $365 million to approximately $367 million. GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of approximately $0.12 to approximately $0.13. Non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of approximately $0.29 to approximately $0.30. Excluded from non-GAAP EPS guidance are stock-based compensation expense, expected to be approximately $26.4 million, amortization of purchased intangibles related to acquisitions, expected to be approximately $2.5 million, and non-cash interest expense related to the convertible senior notes, expected to be approximately $5.5 million. For purposes of the Q1 GAAP and non-GAAP EPS calculation, the company is expecting an average diluted share count of approximately 133 million shares, a GAAP tax rate of approximately 40%, a non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 38%, and a non-controlling interest charge of approximately $2.0 million.
Q1 FY11
: The company is raising the full year revenue guidance it provided on November 17, 2009, with revenue growth now expected to be approximately 16% to 17%. GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of approximately $0.58 to approximately $0.60. Non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of approximately $1.25 to approximately $1.27. Excluded from non-GAAP EPS guidance are stock-based compensation expense, expected to be approximately $109.5 million, amortization of purchased intangibles related to acquisitions, expected to be approximately $9.4 million, and non-cash interest expense related to the convertible senior notes, expected to be approximately $22.4 million. For purposes of the full fiscal year 2011 GAAP and non-GAAP EPS calculation, the company is expecting an average diluted share count of approximately 136 million shares, a GAAP tax rate of approximately 40%, a non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 38%, and a non-controlling interest charge of approximately $9.0 million.
Full Year FY11
The following is a per share reconciliation of GAAP diluted EPS to non-GAAP diluted EPS Guidance:
 
Quarterly Conference Call
Salesforce.com will host a conference call to discuss its fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2010 results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Standard Time today. A live audio webcast of the conference call, together with detailed financial information, can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations Web site at http://www.salesforce.com/investor. In addition, an archive of the webcast can be accessed through the same link. Participants who choose to call in to the conference call can do so by dialing domestically 866-901-SFDC or 866-901-7332 and internationally at 706-902-1764. A replay will be available at (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291, passcode 54774224, until midnight (ET) March 19, 2010.
About salesforce.com
Salesforce.com is the enterprise cloud computing company. The company's portfolio of Salesforce CRM applications, available at http://www.salesforce.com/products/, has revolutionized the ways that companies collaborate and communicate with their customers across sales, marketing and service. The company's Force.com Platform (http://www.salesforce.com/platform/) enables customers, partners and developers to quickly build powerful business applications to run every part of the enterprise in the cloud. Based on salesforce.com's real-time, multi-tenant architecture, Salesforce CRM and Force.com offer the fastest path to customer success with cloud computing.
As of January 31, 2010, salesforce.com manages customer information for approximately 72,500 customers including Allianz Commercial, Dell, Japan Post, Kaiser Permanente, KONE, and SunTrust Banks.
Any unreleased services or features referenced in this or other press releases or public statements are not currently available and may not be delivered on time or at all. Customers who purchase salesforce.com applications should make their purchase decisions based upon features that are currently available. Salesforce.com has headquarters in San Francisco, with offices in Europe and Asia, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CRM". For more information please visit http://www.salesforce.com, or call 1-800-NO-SOFTWARE.
This press release includes information about non-GAAP earnings per share and non-GAAP tax rates (collectively the "non-GAAP financial measures"). Non-GAAP EPS estimates exclude the impact of the following non-cash items: stock based compensation, amortization of purchased intangibles, and the amortization of debt discount on the company's convertible senior notes, as well as the tax consequences associated with these items. The purpose of the non-GAAP tax rate is to quantify the excluded tax consequences of the excluded expense items. These non-GAAP estimates are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The method used to produce non-GAAP financial measures is not computed according to GAAP and may differ from the methods used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with the company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
The primary purpose of these non-GAAP measures is to provide supplemental information that may prove useful to investors who wish to consider the impact of certain non-cash items on the company's operating performance because many of these items are unrelated to the quarterly operations of the company. The company defines its core operating performance to be the revenues recorded in a particular period and the expenses incurred within that period which management has the capability of directly affecting in order to drive operating income and cash flow. Non-cash stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, and the amortization of debt discount on the company's convertible notes will be excluded from FY11 core operating performance because the decisions which gave rise to these expenses were not made to drive revenue in a particular period, but rather were made for the company's long-term benefit over multiple periods. While strategic decisions, such as the decisions to issue stock-based compensation, to acquire a company, or to issue convertible senior notes, are made to further the company's long-term strategic objectives and do impact the company's income statement under GAAP measures, these items affect multiple periods and management is not able to change or affect these items within any particular period. As such, supplementing GAAP disclosure with non-GAAP disclosure using the non-GAAP measures provides management with an additional view of operational performance by excluding expenses that are not directly related to performance in any particular period, and management uses both GAAP and non-GAAP measures when planning, monitoring, and evaluating the company's performance.
Secondarily, the majority of the company's industry peers report non-GAAP operating results that exclude certain non-cash or non-recurring items. Management believes that the provision of supplemental non-GAAP information will enable a more complete comparison of the company's relative performance.
Specifically, management is excluding the following items from its estimated non-GAAP EPS for FY2011:
 
 
 
"Safe harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This press release contains forward-looking statements about expected revenue and GAAP and non-GAAP earnings per share for the first fiscal quarter of 2011 and the full fiscal year, and the company's expected tax rates, stock-based compensation expenses, amortization expenses, noncontrolling interest charges, and shares outstanding, the achievement of which involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If any such risks or uncertainties materialize or if any of the assumptions prove incorrect, the company's results could differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements we make.
The risks and uncertainties referred to above include  but are not limited to  risks associated with possible fluctuations in the company's financial and operating results, rate of growth and anticipated revenue run rate; errors, interruptions or delays in the company's service or the company's Web hosting; breaches of the company's security measures; the financial impact of any future acquisitions; the nature of the company's business model; the company's ability to continue to release, and gain customer acceptance of, new and improved versions of the company's service; successful customer deployment and utilization of the company's existing and future services; changes in the company's sales cycle; competition; various financial aspects of the company's subscription model; unexpected increases in attrition or decreases in new business; the emerging market in which we operate; unique aspects of entering or expanding in international markets, the company's ability to hire, retain and motivate employees and manage the company's growth; changes in the company's customer base; technological developments; regulatory developments; litigation or related dispute settlement; unanticipated changes in the company's effective tax rate; and fluctuations in the number of shares we have outstanding, the price of such shares, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and general developments in the economy, financial markets, and credit markets.
Further information on these and other factors that could affect the company's financial results is included in the reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the company's Form 10-K that will be filed for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010. These documents are available on the SEC Filings section of the Investor Information section of the company's website at www.salesforce.com/investor.
Salesforce.com, inc. assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
Copyright (c) 2010 salesforce.com, inc. All rights reserved. Salesforce and the "no software" logo are registered trademarks of salesforce.com, inc., and salesforce.com owns other registered and unregistered trademarks. Other names used herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
(in thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
As a percentage of total revenues:
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(in thousands)
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Additional Metrics
(Unaudited)
 
 


