FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20100119170235.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
On January 12, 2010, salesforce.com, inc. ("the "Company") entered into a purchase agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated on behalf of itself and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. as initial purchasers, relating to the sale by the Company of $500 million aggregate principal amount of its 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 (the "Notes") in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). In addition, the Company granted the initial purchasers an over-allotment option to purchase, within 15 days from the date of the Purchase Agreement, up to an additional $75 million aggregate principal amount of the Notes on the same terms and conditions. The initial purchasers exercised their over-allotment option on January 15, 2010.
The Purchase Agreement includes customary representations, warranties and covenants by the Company. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company has agreed to indemnify the initial purchasers against certain liabilities.
The description of the Purchase Agreement contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Purchase Agreement attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Indenture
On January 19, 2010, the Company entered into an Indenture (the "Indenture") by and between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee. The Notes will bear interest at a rate of 0.75% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing July 15, 2010. The Notes will mature on January 15, 2015, unless earlier purchased by the Company or converted.
The initial conversion rate is 11.7147 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $85.36 per share). The conversion rate will be subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain specified events but will not be adjusted for accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, upon the occurrence of a "make-whole fundamental change" (as defined in the Indenture), the Company will, in certain circumstances, increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares for a holder that elects to convert its Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change.
Prior to October 15, 2014, the Notes will be convertible only under the following circumstances (1) during any fiscal quarter commencing after April 30, 2010, if, for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter, the last reported sale price of the Company's common stock on such trading day is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price on such trading day; (2) during the five consecutive business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period in which, for each day of that period, the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes for such trading day was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the applicable conversion rate on such trading day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions. On and after October 15, 2014 until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert all or a portion of their Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, the Notes will be settled in cash and shares of the Company's common stock (subject to its right to pay cash in lieu of all or any portion of such shares).
The Company may not redeem the Notes; however, upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the Indenture), holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their Notes for cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change purchase date.
The Notes will be our unsecured and unsubordinated obligations and will rank senior in right of payment to any of the Company's future indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Notes; rank equal in right of payment to the Company's existing and future unsecured indebtedness that is not so subordinated; be
effectively subordinated in right of payment to any of its secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness; and be structurally subordinated to all existing and future indebtedness and liabilities of subsidiaries of the Company.
The following events are considered "events of default," which may result in the acceleration of the maturity of the Notes:
(1) the Company defaults in the payment of interest on any Note when the same becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days;
(2) the Company defaults in the payment of principal of any Note when the same becomes due and payable at the maturity date, upon declaration of acceleration, upon any fundamental change purchase date or otherwise;
(3) failure by the Company to deliver the consideration due upon the conversion of any Notes and such failure continues for a period of five business days;
(4) failure by the Company to give a fundamental change notice or a notice of a specified corporate transaction at the time, in the manner, and with the contents under the Indenture in each case when due;
(5) failure by the Company to comply with its obligations under the Indenture with respect to consolidation, merger and sale of assets of the Company;
(6) the Company defaults in the performance of or breaches any other covenant or agreement in the Indenture with respect to the Notes (other than a covenant or agreement in respect of which a default or breach is specifically addressed in clauses (1) through (5) above) and such default or breach continues for a period of 60 consecutive days after written notice of such default is delivered to the Company by the trustee or to the Company and the trustee by the holders of 25% or more in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding;
(7) an event of default as defined under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any indebtedness of the Company or any of its "significant subsidiary" (as defined in the Indenture) for money borrowed, whether such indebtedness now exists or shall hereafter be created, if that default:
 
 
(8) certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency, or reorganization of the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries.
If an event of default, other than an event of default described in clause (8) above with respect to the Company, occurs and is continuing, and in each and every such case, except for any Notes the principal of which shall have already become due and payable, either the trustee by notice to the Company, or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, by notice to the Company and to the trustee, may declare 100% of the principal amount of, and accrued and unpaid interest (including additional interest, if any) on all the Notes then outstanding, to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration the same shall become immediately due and payable. If an event of default described in clause (8) occurs and is continuing with respect to the Company (and not solely with respect to one or more of its significant subsidiaries), then 100% of the principal amount of, and all accrued and unpaid interest on all the Notes then outstanding shall be and become immediately due and payable, without any notice or other action by any holder or the trustee, to the full extent permitted by applicable law.
The summary of the foregoing transactions is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Indenture, which is included as Exhibit 4.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Convertible Note Hedge Transactions
On January 12, 2010 and January 15, 2010, in connection with the offering of the Notes, the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions with respect to its common stock (the "Purchased Options") with each of Bank of America, N.A., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG (collectively, the "Counterparties"). The Company paid an aggregate amount of $126.5 million to the Counterparties for the Purchased Options. The Purchased Options cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments substantially identical to those in the Notes, approximately 6.7 million shares of the Company's common stock at a strike price that corresponds to the initial conversion price of the Notes, also subject to adjustment, and are exercisable upon conversion of the Notes. The Purchased Options will expire upon the maturity of the Notes. A form of the confirmations relating to the Purchased Options is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Purchased Options are intended to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the Notes in the event that the market value per share of the Company's common stock, as measured under the Notes, at the time of exercise is greater than the conversion price of the Notes.
The Purchased Options are separate transactions, entered into by the Company with the Counterparties, and are not part of the terms of the Notes. Holders of the Notes will not have any rights with respect to the Purchased Options.
Warrant Transactions
Separately, on January 12, 2010 and January 15, 2010, the Company also entered into warrant transactions (the "Warrants"), whereby the Company sold to the Counterparties warrants to acquire, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, up to 6.7 million shares of the Company's common stock at a strike price of $119.51 per share, also subject to adjustment, which is approximately 75% higher than the closing price of shares of the Company's common stock of $68.29 on January 12, 2010. The Company received aggregate proceeds of $59.2 million from the sale of the Warrants to the Counterparties. The Warrants were sold in private placements to the Counterparties pursuant to the exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act afforded by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. A form of the confirmations relating to the Warrant transactions is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
If the market value per share of the Company's common stock, as measured under the Warrants, exceeds the strike price of the Warrants, the Warrants will have a dilutive effect on the Company's earnings per share.
The Warrants are separate transactions, entered into by the Company with the Counterparties, and are not part of the terms of the Notes. Holders of the Notes will not have any rights with respect to the Warrants.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 3.02. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities.
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.02.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On January 19, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing the closing of its offering of the Notes. A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE dated as of January 19, 2010 between salesforce.com, inc., a Delaware corporation (""), and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee ("").
Company
Trustee
Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Company's 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015:
Section 1.01 .
Definitions
"" of any specified Person means any other Person, directly or indirectly, controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "" and "" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
control
controlling
controlled
"" means, with respect to any transfer or transaction involving a Global Note or any beneficial interest therein, the rules and procedures of the Depositary for such Note, in each case to the extent applicable to such transfer or transaction and as in effect from time to time.
Applicable Procedures
"" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar U.S. federal, state or non-U.S. law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
"" means the Trustee or such other Person as may be appointed from time to time by the Company, without prior notice to the Holders, to solicit market bid quotations for the Notes in accordance with Section 10.01(a)(ii).
Bid Solicitation Agent
"" means the board of directors of the Company or a committee of such board duly authorized to act for it.
Board of Directors
"" means a copy of one or more resolutions certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution
"" means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or any other day on which the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close or be closed.
Business Day
"" means, for any Person, any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) the equity of such Person, but excluding any debt securities convertible into such equity.
Capital Stock
"" means Notes that are in registered definitive form.
Certificated Notes
"" means 5:00 p.m., New York City time.
Close of Business
"" means the shares of the common stock of the Company, par value $0.001 per share, existing on the Issue Date or any other shares of Capital Stock of the Company into which such shares of common stock shall be reclassified or changed.
Common Stock
"" means the party named as such in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor or assign replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and, thereafter, means the successor or assign.
Company
"" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any Officer.
Company Order
"" means the corporate trust office of the Trustee at which at any time the trust created by this Indenture shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 633 West 5
Corporate Trust Office
th
 Street, 24
th
 Floor, Los Angeles, California 90071, Attention: Corporate Trust Services (salesforce.com 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015), or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the corporate trust office of any successor Trustee at which such trust shall be administered (or such other address as a successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
"" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
Custodian
"" means, for each of the 30 consecutive VWAP Trading Days during an Observation Period, one-thirtieth (
Daily Conversion Value
 1
/
30
th) of the product of (i) the Conversion Rate in effect on such VWAP Trading Day and (ii) the Daily VWAP for such VWAP Trading Day.
"" means, for each of the 30 VWAP Trading Days during an Observation Period:
Daily Settlement Amount
(a) an amount of cash equal to the lesser of (i) one-thirtieth (
 1
/
30
th) of $1,000 and (ii) the Daily Conversion Value (such minimum, the ""); and
Daily Principal Portion
(b) to the extent the Daily Conversion Value for such VWAP Trading Day exceeds the Daily Principal Portion for such VWAP Trading Day, a number of shares of the Common Stock (the ""), subject to the Company's right to pay cash in lieu of all or a portion of such number of shares of the Common Stock pursuant to Section 10.03(b), equal to the fraction, the numerator of which equals the excess of (i) the Daily Conversion Value for such VWAP Trading Day over (ii) the Daily Principal Portion for such Trading Day, and the denominator of which equals the Daily VWAP for such VWAP Trading Day.
Daily Share Amount
"" means, for any of the 30 VWAP Trading Days in an Observation Period, the per share volume-weighted average price of the Common Stock as displayed under the heading "Bloomberg VWAP" on Bloomberg page "CRM.N <equity> AQR" (or any successor thereto if such page it not available) in respect of the period from the scheduled open of trading until the scheduled close of trading of the primary trading session on such VWAP Trading Day
Daily VWAP
 
(or if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market value of one share of the Common Stock on such VWAP Trading Day, determined using a volume-weighted average method, by the Board of Directors. The Daily VWAP will be determined without regard to after hours trading or any other trading outside of the regular trading session trading hours. On and after the occurrence of a Merger Event, the Daily VWAP for a Unit of Reference Property means, for any of the 30 VWAP Trading Days during an Observation Period, the fair market value of a Unit of Reference Property as determined, in a commercially reasonable manner, using a volume-weighted average method, if possible, by the Board of Directors.
"" means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
"" mean The Depository Trust Company.
DTC
"" means, with respect to any issuance, dividend or distribution, the first date on which the shares of the Common Stock trade in the applicable exchange or in the applicable market, regular way, without the right to receive the issuance, dividend or distribution in question.
Ex-Dividend Date
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means the date that is one year after the last date of original issuance of the Notes.
Free Trade Date
"" means, with respect to the Notes and the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes, if any, that such Notes or such shares of Common Stock, if any, (i) are eligible to be sold by a Person who has not been an Affiliate of the Company during the preceding three months without any volume or manner of sale restrictions under the Securities Act, (ii) do not bear a Restricted Security Legend or Restricted Stock Legend and (iii) with respect to Global Notes only, are identified by an unrestricted CUSIP number in the facilities of the applicable depositary.
Freely Tradable
"" means an event that shall be deemed to have occurred any time after the Issue Date when any of the following events occurs:
Fundamental Change
(1) any "person" or "group," other than the Company, its Subsidiaries and the employee benefits plans of the Company and of its Subsidiaries, has become the direct or indirect "beneficial owner," of the shares of the Company's Capital Stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of the Company's common equity;
(2) consummation of any consolidation or merger of the Company pursuant to which the Common Stock is or will be converted into cash, securities or other property or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person other than one or more of the Company's Subsidiaries; , that if in any such transaction the holders of more than 50% of the shares of the Company's common equity, representing more than 50% of the voting power of the common equity, immediately prior to such transaction, own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of all classes of common equity,
provided, however
 
representing more than 50% of the total voting power of the continuing or surviving Person or transferee or the parent thereof immediately after such transaction, such transaction shall not constitute a Fundamental Change under this clause (2);
(3) the holders of the Common Stock approve any plan or proposal for the Company's liquidation or dissolution; or
(4) the Common Stock (or any other common stock into which the Notes are convertible at such time) is neither listed nor quoted on a National Securities Exchange.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction or a series of transactions as set forth in clause (2) above shall not constitute Fundamental Change if, at least 90% of the consideration received or to be received by holders of the Common Stock (excluding cash payments for fractional shares and cash payments made pursuant to dissenters' appraisal rights) in connection with such transaction or transactions otherwise constituting a Fundamental Change under clause (2) above consists of shares of common stock or depositary receipts evidencing interests in ordinary shares or common equity traded on a National Securities Exchange, and as a result of such transaction or transactions, the Notes become convertible into cash and, if applicable, such shares of common stock or depositary receipts.
For purposes of this definition:
(i) whether a person is a "" will be determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;
beneficial owner
(ii) "" includes any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a "person" under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act; and
person
(iii) any transaction or event that constitutes a Fundamental Change under both clause (1) and clause (2) above will be deemed to be a Fundamental Change solely under clause (2) above.
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America as in effect and, to the extent optional, adopted by the Company, on the Issue Date, consistently applied.
GAAP
"" means a permanent Global Note that is in the form of the Note attached hereto as Exhibit A and that is deposited with and registered in the name of the Depositary or the nominee of the Depositary.
Global Note
"" means a legend set forth in Exhibit A.
Global Securities Legend
"" or "" means a Person or Persons in whose name a Note is registered in the Register.
Holder
Holders
"" means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, including the provisions of the TIA that are deemed to be a part hereof.
Indenture
 
"" means January19, 2010.
Issue Date
 
"" of the Common Stock means, for any day, the closing sale price per share (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the last bid price and the last ask price or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average last bid prices and the average last ask prices) on such day as reported in composite transactions for the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed for trading, without regard to after-hours or extended market trading. If the Common Stock is not listed for trading on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange on the relevant date, the "Last Reported Sale Price" of the Common Stock will equal the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market on such date as reported by Pink OTC Markets Inc. or a similar organization. If the Common Stock is not so quoted on such date, the "Last Reported Sale Price" will be the average of the mid-point of the last bid prices and the last ask prices for the Common Stock on such date from each of at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected by the Company for this purpose. On and after the occurrence of a Merger Event, the Last Reported Sale Price for a Unit of Reference Property means, for any day, the value of a Unit of Reference Property on such day as determined by the Board of Directors in a commercially reasonable manner.
Last Reported Sale Price
"" means, subject to the sentence immediately following clause (4) of the definition of Fundamental Change, any event that either constitutes a Fundamental Change or would constitute a Fundamental Change but for the proviso in clause (2) of the definition of Fundamental Change.
Make-Whole Fundamental Change
"" means, for any Scheduled Trading Day, the occurrence or existence on such Scheduled Trading Day of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the stock exchange or otherwise) in the Common Stock or in any options contracts or futures contracts relating to the Common Stock, and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time within the 30 minutes prior to the closing time of the relevant exchange on such Scheduled Trading Day.
Market Disruption Event
"" means January 15, 2015.
Maturity Date
"" means a securities exchange registered as a national securities exchange under Section 6(a) of the Exchange Act (or any successor thereto).
National Securities Exchange
"" means any of the Company's 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 issued under this Indenture.
Notes
"" means, with respect to any Note, (i) if the Conversion Date for such Note occurs on or after the 35th Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date, the 30 consecutive VWAP Trading Day period beginning on and including the 32nd Scheduled Trading Day (or, if such Scheduled Trading Day is not a VWAP Trading Day, the immediately following VWAP Trading Day) immediately preceding the Maturity Date, and (ii) in all other cases, the 30 consecutive VWAP Trading Day period beginning on, and including, the second Scheduled Trading Day (or, if such Scheduled Trading Day is not a VWAP Trading Day, the immediately following VWAP Trading Day) immediately following the Conversion Date for such Note.
Observation Period
 
"" means the final offering memorandum for the offering and sale of the Notes dated January 12, 2010.
Offering Memorandum
"" means the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, the Treasurer or the Secretary or any Assistant Treasurer or Assistant Secretary of the Company.
Officer
"" means a written certificate (i) containing the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05, signed in the name of the Company by any Officer, and delivered to the Trustee; and (ii) if given pursuant to Section 4.03, signed by the principal financial or accounting Officer of the Company, which certificate need not contain the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05.
Officer's Certificate
"" means 9:00 a.m., New York City time.
Open of Business
"" means a written opinion containing the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05, from legal counsel. The counsel may be an employee of, or counsel to, the Company who is reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
"" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" means a legend in the form set forth in Exhibit A, or any other substantially similar legend indicating the restricted status of the Notes under Rule 144.
Restricted Securities Legend
"" means a legend in the form set forth in Exhibit C, or any other substantially similar legend indicating the restricted status of the shares of Common Stock under Rule 144.
Restricted Stock Legend
"" means Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), as it may be amended from time to time.
Rule 144
"" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), as it may be amended from time to time.
Rule 144A
"" shall be such information as is specified pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A Information
"" means a day that is scheduled to be a Trading Day on the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange or market on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading. If the Common Stock is not so listed or admitted for trading, "Scheduled Trading Day" means Business Day.
Scheduled Trading Day
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" means any Subsidiary that is a "significant subsidiary" of the Company within the meaning of Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X promulgated under the Exchange Act; , , that, in the case of a Subsidiary that meets the criteria of clause (3) of such definition of "significant subsidiary" but not clause (1) or (2) of such definition, such Subsidiary shall not be deemed to be a Significant Subsidiary unless such Subsidiary's income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle exclusive of amounts attributable to any non-controlling interests for the last completed fiscal year prior to the date of such determination exceeds $50,000,000.
Significant Subsidiary
provided
however
"" means, with respect to the Common Stock, in connection with a Fundamental Change, (i) in the case of a Fundamental Change described in clause (2) of the definition of Fundamental Change in which the holders of the Common Stock receive only cash, the amount of cash paid per share of the Common Stock in such Fundamental Change, and (ii) otherwise, the average of the Last Reported Sales Price of the Common Stock over the five Trading Day period ending on, and including, the Trading Day immediately preceding the applicable Make-Whole Fundamental Change Effective Date.
Stock Price
"" means a Person more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries of the Company, or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries of the Company.
Subsidiary
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in effect on the Issue Date, , , that if the TIA is amended after such date, TIA means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the TIA as so amended.
TIA
provided
however
"" means a day on which (i) trading in the Common Stock generally occurs on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal other U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, on the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded, and (ii) there is no Market Disruption Event. If the Common Stock (or other security for which a Last Reported Sale Price must be determined) is not so listed or traded, "Trading Day" means Business Day.
Trading Day
"" per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes, for any date of determination, means the average (per $1,000 principal amount of Notes) of the secondary market bid quotations obtained by the Bid Solicitation Agent for $5,000,000 principal amount of Notes at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such determination date from three independent nationally recognized securities dealers selected by the Company; that, if three such bids cannot reasonably be obtained by the Bid Solicitation Agent but two such bids are obtained, then the average of the two bids shall be used, and if only one such bid can reasonably be obtained by the Bid Solicitation Agent, that one bid shall be used. If the Bid
Trading Price
provided
 
Solicitation Agent cannot reasonably obtain at least one bid for $5,000,000 principal amount of the Notes from an independent nationally recognized securities dealer, then the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes will be deemed to be less than 98% of the Trading Price Product for such Trading Day. If, on any date of determination, the Company does not so instruct the Bid Solicitation Agent to obtain bids when required, the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes will be deemed to be less than 98% of the Trading Price Product on such date of determination.
"" means any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee (or any successor group of the Trustee) with direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter hereunder, any other officer of the Trustee to whom such matter is referred because of his or her knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
Trust Officer
"" means the party named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, means such successor. The foregoing sentence shall likewise apply to any such subsequent successor or successors.
Trustee
"" means the New York Uniform Commercial Code as in effect from time to time.
Uniform Commercial Code
"" of a Person means Capital Stock of such Person of the class or classes pursuant to which the holders thereof have the general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of such Person (irrespective of whether or not at the time Capital Stock of any other class or classes shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency).
Voting Stock
"" means (i) a failure by the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange or market on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading to open for trading during its regular trading session or (ii) on any Scheduled Trading Day for the Common Stock, the occurrence or existence prior to 1:00 p.m., New York City time, for more than one half-hour period in the aggregate during regular trading hours, of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the relevant stock exchange or otherwise) in the Common Stock or in any options, contracts or future contracts relating to the Common Stock.
VWAP Market Disruption Event
"" means a day on which (i) there is no VWAP Market Disruption Event and (ii) trading in the Common Stock generally occurs on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal other U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, on the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded. If the Common Stock (or any other security for which a Daily VWAP must be determined) is not so listed or traded, "VWAP Trading Day" means a "Business Day."
VWAP Trading Day
 
"" means, at any time, a Subsidiary all the Voting Stock of which (except directors' qualifying shares which shall be deemed to include investments by foreign nationals mandated by applicable law) is at such time owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company and its other Wholly Owned Subsidiaries.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
Section 1.02
Other Definitions.
 
 
Section 1.03 Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act.
"" means the Notes.
indenture securities
"" means this Indenture.
indenture to be qualified
"" or "" means the Trustee.
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
"" on the indenture securities means the Company and any other obligor on the indenture securities.
obligor
All other TIA terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions.
Section 1.04
Rules of Construction.
(1) a term has the meaning assigned to it;
(2) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it and shall be construed in accordance with GAAP;
(3) "" is not exclusive;
or
(4) "" means including, without limitation;
including
(5) words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular;
(6) all references to $, dollars, cash payments or money refer to United States currency; and
 
(7) unless the context requires otherwise, all references to payments of interest on the Notes shall include Additional Interest and Special Interest, if any, payable in accordance with the terms of Sections 4.02 or 6.01, as applicable, hereof.
Section 1.05 . Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "" of Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section 1.05.
Acts of Holders
Act
(a) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to such officer the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than such signer's individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of such signer's authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner that the Trustee deems sufficient.
(b) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Note shall bind every future Holder of the same Note and the Holder of every Note issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee, the Company or the Conversion Agent in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Note.
(c) If the Company shall solicit from the Holders any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company may, at its option, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the Close of Business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of outstanding Notes have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the outstanding Notes shall be computed as of such record date; that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after the record date.
provided
 
Section 2.01 . The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A, which is a part of this Indenture. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. The Company shall provide any such notations, legends or endorsements to the Trustee in writing. Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication. Except as otherwise expressly permitted in this Indenture, all Notes shall be identical in all respects. Notwithstanding any differences among them, all Notes issued under this Indenture shall vote and consent together on all matters as one class.
Form and Dating
(a) . The Notes initially shall be offered and sold only to qualified institutional buyers as defined in Rule 144A ("") in reliance on Rule 144A and shall be issued in the form of two Global Notes that shall be deposited with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, as custodian for the Depositary and registered in the name of DTC or the nominee thereof (DTC, or any successor thereto, and any such nominee being hereinafter referred to as the ""), duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided.
Initial Notes
QIBs
Depositary
(b) . Each Global Note shall represent the outstanding Notes as shall be specified therein and each Global Note shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, purchases by the Company and conversions.
Global Notes in General
Any adjustment of the aggregate principal amount of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.12 hereof and shall be made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary. Payment of the principal, accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, or payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price on the Global Note shall be made to the Holder of such Note on the date of payment, unless a record date or other means of determining Holders eligible to receive payment is provided for herein.
(c) . This Section 2.01(c) shall apply only to Global Notes deposited with or on behalf of the Depositary. The Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with Section 2.02, authenticate and deliver Global Notes that (a) shall be registered in the name of the Depository or the nominee of the Depositary and (b) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instructions.
Book-Entry Provisions
(d) .
Legends
(i) Each Global Note shall bear the Global Securities Legend set forth in Exhibit A unless otherwise directed by the Company.
 
(ii) Each Restricted Note shall bear the Restricted Securities Legend set forth in Exhibit A. Each Note that bears or is required to bear the Restricted Securities Legend shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth therein, and each Holder of such Note, by such Holder's acceptance thereof, agrees to be bound by all such restrictions on transfer.
(iii) Every stock certificate representing the shares of Common Stock issued in the circumstances described in Section 2.06(g) hereof shall bear the Restricted Stock Legend set forth in Exhibit C unless removed in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06(j) or otherwise at the direction of the Company.
Section 2.02 The Notes shall be executed on behalf of the Company by any Officer. The signature of the Officer on the Notes may be manual or facsimile.
Execution and Authentication.
If an Officer whose signature is on a Note no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Note, the Note shall be valid nevertheless.
At any time after the Issue Date, the Company may deliver Notes executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a written order of the Company in the form of an Officer's Certificate for the authentication and delivery of such Notes, and the Trustee, in accordance with such written order of the Company, shall authenticate and deliver such Notes.
A Note shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the certificate of authentication on the Note. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Note has been authenticated under this Indenture.
The Notes shall originally be issued only in registered form without coupons and only in denominations of $1,000 of principal amount and any integral multiple thereof.
The aggregate principal amount of Notes that may be authenticated by the Trustee under this Indenture is initially limited to $575,000,000, subject to Section 2.14 and except for Notes authenticated and delivered upon registration or transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of other Notes pursuant to Sections 2.06, 2.07, 2.09, 2.12, 3.07, 9.07 and 10.02 hereof.
The Trustee may appoint authenticating agents. The Trustee may at any time after the Issue Date appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Notes. An authenticating agent may authenticate Notes whenever the Trustee may do so, except any Notes issued pursuant to Section 2.07 hereof. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent shall have the same right to deal with the Company as the Trustee with respect to such matters for which it has been appointed.
Section 2.03 . The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange (""), an office or agency where Notes may be presented for payment (""), an office or agency where Notes may be presented for conversion ("") and an office or agency where notices to or upon the Company in respect
Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent
Registrar
Paying Agent
Conversion Agent
 
of the Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Registrar shall keep a register for the recordation of, and shall record, the names and addresses of Holders of the Notes, the Notes held by each Holder and the transfer, exchange and conversion of Notes (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the parties may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Holder hereunder for all purposes of this Indenture. The Company may have one or more co-registrars, one or more additional paying agents and one or more additional conversion agents. The term Paying Agent includes any additional paying agent, including any named pursuant to Section 4.05. The term Conversion Agent includes any additional conversion agent, including any named pursuant to Section 4.05.
Register
The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or co-registrar not a party to this Indenture, which shall incorporate the terms of the TIA. Any such agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of any such agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, the Trustee may agree to act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to Section 7.07. The Company or any of its domestically incorporated Wholly Owned Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or co-registrar.
The Company initially appoints the Trustee as the Paying Agent, the Conversion Agent, and the Registrar, in connection with the Notes, and the Corporate Trust Office to be such office or agency of the Company for the aforesaid purposes. The Company may at any time rescind the designation of the Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or the Registrar or approve a change in the location through which any of them acts.
Section 2.04 Except as otherwise provided herein, on or prior to each due date of payment in respect of any Note, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent a sum of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on the due date) and shares of Common Stock, if applicable, sufficient to make such payments when so becoming due. The Paying Agent shall (or, if the Paying Agent is not a party hereto, the Company shall require each Paying Agent to agree in writing that such Paying Agent shall) hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee (if the Trustee is not the Paying Agent) all money and shares of Common Stock, if any, held by the Paying Agent for the making of payments in respect of the Notes and shall notify the Trustee (if the Trustee is not the Paying Agent) of any default by the Company in making any such payment. At any time during the continuance of any such default, the Paying Agent (if not the Trustee) shall, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all money and shares of Common Stock, if any, so held in trust. If the Company or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money and shares of Common Stock, if any, held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money and shares of Common Stock, if any, held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds and shares of Common Stock, if any, disbursed by the Paying Agent. Upon complying with this Section 2.04, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money delivered to the Trustee.
Paying Agent to Hold Money and Notes in Trust.
 
Section 2.05 The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Holders. If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee, promptly after each Record Date, and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Holders.
Holder Lists.
Section 2.06
Transfer and Exchange.
(a) Subject to Section 2.12 hereof, upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Note, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Holder or such Holder's attorney-in-fact duly authorized in writing, at the office or agency of the Company-designated Registrar or co-Registrar pursuant to Section 2.03, (i) the Company shall execute, and the Trustee (or any authenticating agent) shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount and bearing such restrictive legends as may be required by this Indenture and (ii) the Registrar shall record the information required pursuant to Section 2.03 regarding the designated transferee or transferees in the Register. The Company shall not charge a service charge for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to pay all taxes, assessments or other governmental charges that may be imposed in connection with the registration of, transfer or exchange of the Notes from the Holder requesting such transfer or exchange.
At the option of the Holder, Notes may be exchanged for other Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Notes to be exchanged, at such office or agency, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Holder or such Holder's attorney-in-fact duly authorized in writing, and documents of identity and title satisfactory to Registrar. Whenever any Notes are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Notes that the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive, bearing registration numbers not contemporaneously outstanding.
The Company shall not be required to make, and the Registrar need not register, transfers or exchanges of Notes in respect of which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been given and not validly withdrawn by the Holder thereof in accordance with the terms of this Indenture (except, in the case of Notes to be repurchased in part, the portion of such Notes not to be repurchased).
(b) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, so long as a Global Note remains outstanding and is held by or on behalf of the Depositary, transfers of a Global Note, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.12 and this Section 2.06(b). Transfers of a Global Note shall be limited to transfers of such Global Note to the Depositary, to nominees of the Depositary or to a successor of the Depositary or such successor's nominee.
(c) Successive registrations and registrations of transfers and exchanges as aforesaid may be made from time to time as desired, and each such registration shall be noted on the Register.
 
(d) Any Registrar appointed pursuant to Section 2.03 shall provide to the Trustee such information as the Trustee may reasonably require in connection with the delivery by such Registrar of Notes upon transfer or exchange of Notes.
(e) No Registrar shall be required to make registrations of transfer or exchange of Notes during any periods designated in Paragraph 7 of the form of Note attached as Exhibit A hereto or in this Indenture as periods during which such registration of transfers and exchanges need not be made.
(f) .
Transfer Restrictions
(i) Every Note that bears or is required under this Section 2.06(f) to bear the Restricted Securities Legend required by Section 2.01(d) (the "") shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth in this Section 2.06(f) unless such restrictions on transfer shall be eliminated or otherwise waived by written consent of the Company, and the Holder of each such Restricted Note, by such Holder's acceptance thereof, agrees to be bound by all such restrictions on transfer. As used in this Section 2.06(f), and Sections 2.06(g), 2.12(b) and 2.12(c), the term "" encompasses any sale, pledge, transfer, loan, hypothecation or other disposition whatsoever of any Restricted Note. Except as otherwise provided in this Indenture with respect to any Restricted Notes (including, without limitation, Section 2.06(i) below) or as permitted under the terms of such Restricted Securities Legend, if a request is made to remove the legend on any Restricted Note, the legend shall not be removed unless there is delivered to the Company and the Registrar such satisfactory evidence that neither the Restricted Securities Legend nor the restrictions on transfer set forth therein are required to ensure that transfers thereof comply with the provisions of Rule 144A or Rule 144, that such Notes are not "restricted" within the meaning of Rule 144 or that transfers thereof comply with all other applicable securities laws and regulations. In such a case, upon (i) provision of such satisfactory evidence, or (ii) notification by the Company to the Trustee and Registrar of the sale of such Note pursuant to a registration statement that is effective at the time of such sale, the Trustee, pursuant to a Company Order, shall authenticate and deliver a Note that does not bear the Restricted Securities Legend.
Restricted Notes
transfer
(ii) Except as provided elsewhere in this Indenture (including, without limitation, Section 2.06(i) below), until the later of (x) the date that is one year after the last date of original issuance of the Notes and (y) the date that is three months after the Holder ceases to be an Affiliate of the Company, any certificate evidencing such Notes (and all securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof, other than Common Stock, if any, issued upon conversion thereof, which shall bear the Restricted Stock Legend, if applicable) shall bear the Restricted Securities Legend unless such Notes have been transferred (A) to the Company, (B) under a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act, (C) to a Person the seller reasonably believes is a QIB that is purchasing for its own account or for the account of another QIB and to whom notice is given that the transfer is being made in reliance on Rule 144A, all in compliance with Rule 144A, or (D) under any other available exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
 
(iii) No transfer of any Note prior to the Free Trade Date will be registered by the Registrar unless the applicable box on the Form of Assignment and Transfer has been checked.
(g) .
Legends on the Common Stock
(i) Except as provided elsewhere in this Indenture (including, without limitation, Section 2.06(j) below), until the later of (x) the date that is one year after the last date of original issuance of the Notes and (y) the date that is three months after the holder of such shares of Common Stock ceases to be an Affiliate of the Company, any stock certificate representing shares of the Common Stock issued upon conversion of such Notes shall bear the Restricted Stock Legend unless the Notes or such Common Stock, as applicable, has been transferred (a) to the Company; (b) under a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act; (c) to a Person the Holder reasonably believes is a QIB that is purchasing for its own account or for the account of another QIB pursuant to a valid private placement exemption under the Securities Act and to whom notice is given that the transfer is being made in reliance on such an exemption; or (d) under any other available exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
(ii) Any such shares of Common Stock as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms may, subject to applicable securities laws and regulations and upon surrender of the certificates representing such shares of Common Stock for exchange in accordance with the procedures of the transfer agent for the Common Stock, be exchanged for a new certificate or certificates for a like aggregate number of shares of Common Stock which shall not bear the Restricted Stock Legend.
(h) The Company shall not permit any Note that is purchased or owned by the Company or any Affiliate thereof to be resold by the Company or such Affiliate unless registered under the Securities Act or resold pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in a transaction that results in such Notes, as the case may be, no longer being "restricted securities" (as defined under Rule 144). If the legend is removed from the face of a Note and the Note is subsequently held by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company, the legend shall be reinstated.
(i) So long as and to the extent that any Notes are represented by one or more Global Notes held by or on behalf of the Depositary only, the Company may cause the removal of the Restricted Securities Legend from such Notes at any time on or after the Free Trade Date by:
(i) providing to the Trustee written notice stating that the Free Trade Date has occurred and instructing the Trustee to remove the Restricted Securities Legend from such Notes;
(ii) providing to the Holders of such Notes written notice that the Restricted Securities Legend has been removed or deemed removed;
(iii) providing to the Trustee and the Depositary written notice to change the CUSIP number for the Notes to the applicable unrestricted CUSIP number; and
 
(iv) complying with any Applicable Procedures for delegending;
whereupon the Restricted Securities Legend shall be deemed removed from any Global Notes without further action on the part of Holders.
(j) On and after the Free Trade Date, the Company shall also (i) instruct the transfer agent for the Common Stock to remove the Restricted Stock Legend from any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Notes that bear the Restricted Stock Legend; (ii) notify the holders of any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Notes (to the extent any shares of Common Stock have been issued upon conversion of the Notes) that such Restricted Stock Legend has been removed; (iii) if relevant, notify the transfer agent for the Common Stock to change the CUSIP number for any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Notes to the applicable unrestricted CUSIP number; and (iv) comply with any Applicable Procedures that apply to the delegending of any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of a Note.
Section 2.07 . If a mutilated Note is surrendered to the Registrar or if the Holder of a Note claims that such Note has been lost, destroyed or stolen and the Holder provides evidence of the loss, theft or destruction satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee, the Company shall issue, and the Trustee shall authenticate, a replacement Note if the requirements of Section 8-405 of the Uniform Commercial Code are met and the Holder satisfies any other reasonable requirements of the Trustee. If required by the Trustee or the Company, such Holder shall furnish an indemnity bond sufficient in the judgment of the Company and the Trustee to protect the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Registrar and any co-registrar from any loss that any of them may suffer if a Note is replaced. The Company and the Trustee may charge the Holder for their expenses in replacing a Note.
Replacement Notes
Upon the issuance of any new Notes under this Section 2.07, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
Every new Note issued pursuant to this Section 2.07 in exchange for any mutilated Note, or in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Note, shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company and any other obligor upon the Notes, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of (and shall be subject to all the limitations set forth in) this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Notes duly issued hereunder.
Section 2.08 Notes outstanding at any time include and are limited to all Notes authenticated by the Trustee except (i) those cancelled by it, (ii) those delivered to it for cancellation and (iii) those deemed not outstanding under this Section 2.08. If the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Note, a Note does not cease to be outstanding; , , that for purposes of determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Notes have given or concurred in any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action hereunder, Notes owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Notes or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be
Outstanding Notes.
provided
however
 
disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding. Subject to the foregoing, only Notes outstanding at the time of such determination shall be considered in any such determination (including, without limitation, determinations pursuant to Articles 6 and 9).
If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee and the Company receive proof satisfactory to them that the replaced Note is held by a bona fide purchaser.
If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, on a Fundamental Change Purchase Date or on the Maturity Date, money sufficient to pay Notes payable on that date, then immediately after such Fundamental Change Purchase Date or Maturity Date, as the case may be, such Notes shall cease to be outstanding, interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, on such Notes shall cease to accrue and such Notes shall cease to be convertible.
If a Note is converted in accordance with Article 10, then from and after the time of conversion on the Conversion Date, such Note shall cease to be outstanding and interest (including any Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, shall cease to accrue on such Note.
Section 2.09 Until Certificated Notes are ready for delivery, the Company may execute and the Trustee or an authenticating agent appointed by the Trustee shall, upon written request of the Company, authenticate and deliver temporary Notes (printed or lithographed) (""). Temporary Notes shall be issuable in any authorized denomination, and substantially in the form of Certificated Notes but with such omissions, insertions and variations as may be appropriate for temporary Notes, all as may be determined by the Company. Every such Temporary Note shall be executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee or such authenticating agent upon the same conditions and in substantially the same manner, and with the same effect, as the Certificated Notes. Without unreasonable delay the Company will prepare, execute and deliver to the Trustee or such authenticating agent Certificated Notes (other than any Global Note) and thereupon any or all Temporary Notes (other than any Global Note) may be surrendered in exchange therefor, at each office or agency maintained by the Company pursuant to Section 4.05 and the Trustee or such authenticating agent shall authenticate and deliver in exchange for such Temporary Notes an equal aggregate principal amount of Certificated Notes. Such exchange shall be made by the Company at its own expense and without any charge therefor. Until so exchanged, the Temporary Notes shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits and subject to the same limitations under this Indenture as Certificated Notes authenticated and delivered hereunder.
Temporary Notes.
Temporary Notes
Section 2.10 . The Company at any time may deliver Notes to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar, Conversion Agent and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Notes surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange, conversion, purchase, or payment. The Trustee and no one else shall cancel all Notes surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, conversion, purchase, payment or cancellation and shall dispose of such Notes in its customary manner. The Company may not issue new Notes to replace Notes it has purchased, paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation or that any Holder has converted pursuant to Article 10.
Cancellation
 
Section 2.11. Prior to due presentment of a Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Note is registered in the Register as the owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal, interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, or payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price, for the purpose of conversion and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Persons Deemed Owners
Section 2.12
Transfer of Notes.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Notes, (A) transfers of a Global Note, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Sections 2.06 and 2.12(a)(i); (B) transfers of a beneficial interest in a Global Note for a Certificated Note shall comply with Sections 2.06 and 2.12(a)(ii), and (C) transfers of a Certificated Note shall comply with Sections 2.06 and 2.12(a)(iii) and (iv) below. All such transfers shall comply with the Applicable Procedures to the extent so required.
(i) . A Global Note may not be transferred, in whole or in part, to any Person other than the Depositary or a nominee or any successor thereof, and no transfer of a Global Note to any other Person may be registered; that this clause (i) shall not prohibit any transfer of a Note that is issued in exchange for a Global Note but is not itself a Global Note. No transfer of a Note to any Person shall be effective under this Indenture or the Notes unless and until such Note has been registered in the name of such Person. Nothing in this Section 2.12(a)(i) shall prohibit or render ineffective any transfer of a beneficial interest in a Global Note effected in accordance with the other provisions of this Section 2.12(a).
Transfer of Global Note
provided
(ii) .
Restrictions on Transfer of a Beneficial Interest in a Global Note for a Certificated Note
(A) A beneficial interest in a Global Note may not be exchanged for a Certificated Note unless:
(1) DTC notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Note and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice; or
(2) DTC ceases to be registered as a clearing agency under the Exchange Act and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such cessation, in which case Certificated Notes shall be issued to all owners of beneficial interests in a Global Note in exchange for their beneficial interests.
In connection with the exchange of an entire Global Note for Certificated Notes pursuant to this Section 2.12(a)(ii), such Global Note shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company shall execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, to each beneficial owner identified by DTC in exchange for its beneficial interest in such Global Note, an equal aggregate principal amount of Certificated Notes of authorized denominations.
 
(3) An Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, in which case, the owner of a beneficial interest in a Global Note will be entitled to receive a Certificated Note in exchange for its beneficial interest in such Global Note.
(B) Upon receipt by the Registrar of instructions from the Holder of a Global Note directing the Registrar to (x) issue one or more Certificated Notes in the amounts specified to the owner of a beneficial interest in such Global Note and (y) debit or cause to be debited an equivalent amount of beneficial interest in such Global Note, subject to the Applicable Procedures:
(1) the Registrar shall notify the Company and the Trustee of such instructions and identify the owner of and the amount of such beneficial interest in such Global Note;
(2) the Company shall promptly execute, and upon Company Order, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, to such beneficial owner Certificated Note(s) in an equivalent amount to such beneficial interest in such Global Note; and
(3) the Registrar shall decrease such Global Note by such amount in accordance with the foregoing.
(iii) . When Certificated Notes are presented to the Registrar with a request: (x) to register the transfer of such Certificated Notes; or (y) to exchange such Certificated Notes for an equal principal amount of Certificated Notes of other authorized denominations, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its reasonable requirements for such transaction are met; , , that the Certificated Notes surrendered for transfer or exchange:
Transfer and Exchange of Certificated Notes
provided
however
(1) must be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Registrar, duly executed in writing by the Holder thereof or its duly authorized attorney-in-fact; and
(2) so long as such Notes are "restricted securities" (as defined under Rule 144), such Notes are being transferred or exchanged pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or pursuant to clause (A), (B) or (C) below, and are accompanied by the following additional information and documents, as applicable:
(A) if such Certificated Notes are being delivered to the Registrar by a Holder for registration in the name of such Holder, without transfer, a certification from such Holder to that effect; or
(B) if such Certificated Notes are being transferred to the Company, a certification from such Holder to that effect; or
(C) if such Certificated Notes are being transferred pursuant to an exemption from registration, (i) a certification from such Holder to that effect (in the form set forth in Exhibit B, if applicable) and (ii) if the Company so requests, an Opinion of Counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Company or any other evidence as to the compliance with the restrictions set forth in the legend thereon that is reasonably satisfactory to the Company.
 
(iv) . A Certificated Note may not be exchanged for a beneficial interest in a Global Note except upon satisfaction of the requirements set forth below.
Restrictions on Transfer of a Certificated Note for a Beneficial Interest in a Global Note
Upon receipt by the Trustee of a Certificated Note, duly endorsed or accompanied by appropriate instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, together with:
(A) so long as the Notes are Restricted Notes, certification, in the form set forth in Exhibit B, that such Certificated Note is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A; and
(B) written instructions directing the Trustee to make, or to direct the Registrar to make, an adjustment on its books and records with respect to such Global Note to reflect an increase in the aggregate principal amount of the Notes represented by the Global Note, such instructions to contain information regarding the Depositary account to be credited with such increase, then the Trustee shall cancel such Certificated Note and cause, or direct the Registrar to cause, in accordance with the standing instructions and procedures existing between the Depositary and the Registrar, the aggregate principal amount of Notes represented by the Global Note to be increased by the aggregate principal amount of the Certificated Note to be exchanged, and shall credit or cause to be credited to the account of the Person specified in such instructions a beneficial interest in the Global Note equal to the principal amount of the Certificated Note so cancelled. If no Global Notes are then outstanding, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate, upon written order of the Company in the form of an Officer's Certificate, a new Global Note in the appropriate principal amount.
(b) Subject to the succeeding Section 2.12(c), every Note shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer provided in Section 2.06(f), including the delivery of an opinion of counsel, if so required. Whenever any Restricted Note is presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange for a Note registered in a name other than that of the Holder, such Note must be accompanied by a certificate in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit B, dated the date of such surrender and signed by the Holder of such Note, as to compliance with such restrictions on transfer. The Registrar shall not be required to accept for such registration of transfer or exchange any Note not so accompanied by a properly completed certificate.
(c) The restrictions imposed by Section 2.06(f) upon the transferability of any Note shall cease and terminate when such Note has been sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or transferred in compliance with Rule 144. Any Note as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or shall have terminated may, upon a surrender of such Note for exchange to the Registrar in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.12 (accompanied, if such restrictions on transfer have terminated by reason of a transfer in compliance with Rule 144 or any successor provision, by an opinion of counsel having substantial experience in practice under the Securities Act and otherwise reasonably acceptable in form and substance to the Company, addressed to the
 
Company, to the effect that the transfer of such Note has been made in compliance with Rule 144), be exchanged for a new Note, of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, which shall not bear the legends required by Section 2.01(d). The Company shall inform the Trustee upon the occurrence of the Free Trade Date and promptly after a registration statement with respect to the Notes or any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Notes has been declared effective under the Securities Act. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the aforementioned opinion of counsel or registration statement.
(d) The provisions of clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) below shall apply only to Global Notes:
(i) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Notes, a Global Note shall not be exchanged in whole or in part for a Note registered in the name of any Person other than the Depositary or one or more nominees thereof, that a Global Note may be exchanged for Notes registered in the name of any Person designated by the Depositary if (A) the Depositary has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Note or such Depositary has ceased to be a "clearing agency" registered under the Exchange Act, and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days or (B) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Notes. Any Global Note exchanged pursuant to clause (A) above shall be so exchanged in whole and not in part, and any Global Note exchanged pursuant to clause (B) above may be exchanged in whole or, from time to time, in part as directed by the Depositary. Any Note issued in exchange for a Global Note or any portion thereof shall be a Global Note; that any such Note so issued that is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary or a nominee thereof shall not be a Global Note.
provided
provided
(ii) Notes issued in exchange for a Global Note or any portion thereof shall be issued in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons, shall have an aggregate principal amount equal to that of such Global Note or portion thereof to be so exchanged, shall be registered in such names and be in such authorized denominations as the Depositary shall designate and shall bear the applicable legends provided for herein. Any Global Note to be exchanged in whole shall be surrendered by the Depositary to the Trustee, as Registrar. With regard to any Global Note to be exchanged in part, either such Global Note shall be so surrendered for exchange or, if the Trustee is acting as custodian for the Depositary or its nominee with respect to such Global Note, the principal amount thereof shall be reduced, by an amount equal to the portion thereof to be so exchanged, by means of an appropriate adjustment made on the records of the Trustee. Upon any such surrender or adjustment, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver the Note issuable on such exchange to or upon the order of the Depositary or an authorized representative thereof.
(iii) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.12(e), a Holder may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action which such Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Notes.
 
(iv) In the event of the occurrence of any of the events specified in clause (i) above, the Company will promptly make available to the Trustee a reasonable supply of Certificated Notes in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons.
(e) Neither any members of, or participants in, the Depositary (collectively, the "") nor any other Persons on whose behalf any Agent Member may act shall have any rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Note registered in the name of the Depositary or any nominee thereof, or under any such Global Note, and the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner and holder of such Global Note for all purposes whatsoever. The Trustee shall have no responsibility or obligation to any Agent Members or any other Person on whose behalf Agent Members may act with respect to (i) any ownership interests in the Global Note, (ii) the accuracy of the records of the Depositary or its nominee (iii) any notice required hereunder or (iv) any payments, under or with respect to, the Global Note. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, or impair, as between the Depositary, its Agent Members and any other Person on whose behalf an Agent Member may act, the operation of customary practices of such Persons governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of any Note. The registered Holder of a Global Note may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action that a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Notes.
Agent Members
Section 2.13
CUSIP and ISIN Numbers.
(a) The Company, in issuing the Notes, shall use restricted CUSIP and ISIN numbers for such Notes (if then generally in use) until such time as the Restricted Securities Legend is removed pursuant to Section 2.06(i). At such time as the legend is removed from such Notes pursuant to Section 2.06(i), the Company will use an unrestricted CUSIP number for such Note, but only with respect to the Notes where so removed. The Trustee may use CUSIP and ISIN numbers in notices as a convenience to Holders; , , that neither the Company nor the Trustee shall have any responsibility for any defect in the CUSIP or ISIN number that appears on any Note, check, advice of payment or notice, and any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes, and any action taken in connection with such a notice shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee in the event of any change in the CUSIP or ISIN numbers.
provided
however
(b) Until such time as the Restricted Stock Legend is no longer required to be borne by any shares of Common Stock issued upon the conversion of the Notes pursuant to Section 2.06(g) or otherwise, any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Notes shall bear a restricted CUSIP number. At such time as the Restrictive Stock Legend is no longer required to be borne by any shares of Common Stock issued upon the conversion of the Notes pursuant to Section 2.06(g) or otherwise, any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Notes shall bear an unrestricted CUSIP number.
 
Section 2.14 . The Company may, without the consent of the Holders and notwithstanding Section 2.02, reopen this Indenture and increase the principal amount of the Notes by issuing additional Notes in the future pursuant to this Indenture with the same terms and with the same CUSIP number as the Notes initially issued hereunder in an unlimited aggregate principal amount, which will form the same series with the Notes initially issued hereunder, that no such additional Notes may be issued unless they will be fungible with the original Notes for U.S. federal income tax and securities law purposes. Prior to the issuance of any such additional Notes, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee a Company Order, an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, such Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel to cover such matters, in addition to those required by Section 12.05, as the Trustee shall reasonably request. The Company may also from time to time repurchase the Notes in open market purchases or negotiated transactions without prior notice to Holders.
Additional Notes; Repurchases
provided
Section 3.01 . The Company shall have no right to redeem the Notes before the Maturity Date.
No Company Right to Redeem
Section 3.02
Fundamental Change Permits Holders to Require Company to Purchase Notes.
If a Fundamental Change occurs, each Holder shall have the right, at its option, to require the Company to purchase in cash, on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, all of its Notes, or any portion of its Notes in principal amount equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof, on a date (the "") specified by the Company in the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice for such Fundamental Change and that is not less than 20 calendar days or more than 35 calendar days immediately following the Fundamental Change Notice Date, at a price (the "") equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, to, but excluding, the Fundamental Change Purchase Date; , , that if the Fundamental Change Purchase Date occurs after a Record Date for the payment of interest, but on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, the Company will pay the full amount of accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, payable on such interest payment date to the Holder of the Note on such Record Date and reduce the Fundamental Change Purchase Price by such amount.
Fundamental Change Purchase Date
Fundamental Change Purchase Price
provided
however
Section 3.03
Fundamental Change Conversion Right Notice.
(a) On or before the 20th calendar day immediately following the effective date of a Fundamental Change, the Company shall deliver written notice of such Fundamental Change and the resulting purchase right (the "," and the date of such mailing, the "") to each Holder (and to beneficial owners as required by applicable law), the Trustee and the Paying Agent. A Fundamental Change Notice for a Fundamental Change shall state:
Fundamental Change Notice
Fundamental Change Notice Date
(i) briefly, the events causing such Fundamental Change;
 
(ii) the effective date of such Fundamental Change;
(iii) the last date on which a Holder may exercise its right to require the Company to purchase such Holder's Notes under this Article 3;
(iv) the Fundamental Change Purchase Date;
(v) the Fundamental Change Purchase Price;
(vi) that the Fundamental Change Purchase Price for any Notes as to which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been duly tendered and not withdrawn will be paid promptly following the later of the Fundamental Change Purchase Date and the time of surrender of such Notes;
(vii) that payment may be collected only if the Notes to be repurchased are surrendered to the Paying Agent;
(viii) the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent;
(ix) briefly, the procedures the Holder must follow to exercise its rights under this Section 3.03;
(x) briefly, the conversion rights of the Notes, including an explanation that a condition to conversion has been satisfied;
(xi) the Conversion Rate in effect on the Fundamental Change Notice Date;
(xii) any adjustments that will be made to the Conversion Rate as a result of the Fundamental Change, including, without limitation, any Additional Shares by which the Conversion Rate will be increased pursuant to Section 10.07;
(xiii) that any Notes with respect to which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been given may be converted only if such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice is validly withdrawn in accordance with the terms of this Indenture;
(xiv) the procedures for withdrawing a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice;
(xv) that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such Fundamental Change Purchase Price on the Notes surrendered for repurchase by the Company, interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, on Notes for which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been validly given will cease to accrue on and after the Fundamental Change Purchase Date; and
(xvi) the CUSIP and ISIN number(s) of the Notes.
Section 3.04
Fundamental Change Purchase Notice.
(a) To exercise its repurchase rights under Section 3.02(a), a Holder must deliver to the Paying Agent, by the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding the
 
Fundamental Change Purchase Date, (i)(A) if the Notes that such Holder is tendering for purchase are Global Notes, a duly completed written notice in the form of the "Form of Fundamental Change Purchase Notice" on the reverse side of the Notes, or (B) if the Notes that such Holder is tendering for purchase are Certificated Notes, the duly completed "Form of Fundamental Change Purchase Notice" on the reverse side of the Notes that such Holder is tendering for purchase (in either case (A) or case (B), such notice, a "") and (ii) the Notes that such Holder is tendering for purchase on such Fundamental Change Purchase Date. The Fundamental Change Purchase Notice must state:
Fundamental Change Purchase Notice
(A) the portion of the principal amount of the Notes that the Holder will deliver to be purchased, which portion must be $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof;
(B) that such Notes shall be purchased pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in this Indenture; and
(C) if Certificated Notes have been issued, the certificate numbers of the Notes that the Holder will deliver to be purchased.
If the Notes to be purchased are Global Notes, the Holder must deliver the Notes to be repurchased in accordance with the Applicable Procedures.
(b) Unless and until the Paying Agent receives a validly endorsed and delivered Fundamental Change Purchase Notice, together with any Notes to which such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice pertains, in a form that conforms with the description contained in such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice in all material aspects, the Holder submitting the Notes shall not be entitled to receive the Fundamental Change Purchase Price for such Notes.
(c) After delivering a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice to the Paying Agent, a Holder may withdraw such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice by delivering to the Trustee a written notice of withdrawal at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Fundamental Change Purchase Date. Such notice of withdrawal must specify:
(i) the principal amount of any Notes with respect to which the notice of withdrawal pertains, which must equal $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof;
(ii) if Certificated Notes have been issued, the certificate numbers of the Notes to be withdrawn; and
(iii) the principal amount, if any, that remains subject to the original Fundamental Change Purchase Notice, which amount must equal $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof.
If the Notes to be withdrawn are Global Notes, a Holder must deliver its notice of withdrawal in compliance with the Applicable Procedures.
 
Section 3.05
Effect of Fundamental Change Purchase Notice.
(a) If a Holder validly delivers to the Paying Agent a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice (together with all necessary endorsements) with respect to a Note, such Holder may no longer convert such Note unless and until such Holder validly withdraws such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice in accordance with Section 3.04(c) above.
(b) Upon the Paying Agent's receipt of (i) a valid Fundamental Change Purchase Notice (together with all necessary endorsements) and (ii) the Notes to which such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice pertains, the Holder of the Notes to which such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice pertains shall be entitled, except to the extent such Holder has validly withdrawn such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice in accordance with Section 3.04(c) above, to receive the Fundamental Change Purchase Price with respect to such Notes promptly following the later of (i) the Fundamental Change Purchase Date and (ii) if the Notes are Certificated Notes, the date of delivery of such Notes to the Paying Agent, or, if the Notes are Global Notes, the date of book-entry transfer.
(c) If, on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, the Company, in accordance with Section 3.06 below, has deposited with the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay the Fundamental Change Purchase Price of all of the Notes that Holders have tendered for purchase and have not validly withdrawn in accordance with Section 3.04(c) above:
(i) such tendered Notes will cease to be outstanding and interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, will cease to accrue (whether or not all of such Notes were delivered to the Paying Agent or book-entry transfer has been made, as applicable); and
(ii) all other rights of the Holders with respect to the tendered Notes will terminate (other than the right to receive payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price upon delivery or transfer of the Notes).
Section 3.06 Prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, as the case may be, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent (or, if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.04) an amount of cash (in immediately available funds if deposited on such Business Day), sufficient to pay the aggregate Fundamental Change Purchase Price of all the Notes or portions thereof which are to be repurchased as of the Fundamental Change Purchase Date.
Deposit of Fundamental Change Purchase Price.
Section 3.07 Any Certificated Note that is to be purchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney-in-fact duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Note, without service charge, a new Note or Notes, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the principal amount of the Note so surrendered which is not repurchased, or in the case of a Global Note, the Company shall instruct the Registrar to decrease such Global Note by the principal amount of the repurchased portion of the Note surrendered.
Notes Purchased in Part.
 
Section 3.08 When repurchasing Notes under this Article 3, the Company will, to the extent applicable, (i) comply with Rule 13e-4 (or any successor provision) and Rule 14e-1 (or any successor provision) under the Exchange Act, (ii) file the related Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) under the Exchange Act, and (iii) otherwise comply with any applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws so as to permit Holders to exercise their rights and obligations under Section 3.02 in the time and in the manner specified in Section 3.02.
Covenant to Comply with Securities Laws Upon Purchase of Notes.
Section 3.09 The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company any cash held by them for the payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price that remains unclaimed as provided in Paragraph 11 of the form of Note attached as Exhibit A hereto; , that to the extent that the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 3.04 exceeds the aggregate Fundamental Change Purchase Price of the Notes or portions thereof which the Company is obligated to repurchase as of the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, then, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Company, promptly after the Business Day following the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, the Trustee shall return any such excess to the Company.
Repayment to the Company.
provided, however
Section 3.10
Covenant Not to Purchase Notes Upon Certain Events of Default.
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Article 3, the Company shall not purchase any Notes under this Article 3 if there has occurred and is continuing an Event of Default unless the payment by the Company of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price will cure such Event of Default.
(b) If a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice is tendered and, on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has not been validly withdrawn in accordance with Section 3.04(c) above, and, pursuant to this Section 3.10, the Company is not permitted to purchase Notes, the Paying Agent will deem withdrawn such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice.
(c) If a Holder tenders a Note for purchase pursuant to this Article 3 and, on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, pursuant to this Section 3.10, the Company is not permitted to purchase such Note, the Paying Agent will (i) if such Note is a Certificated Note, return such Note to such Holder, and (ii) if such Note is held in book-entry form, in compliance with the Applicable Procedures, deem to be cancelled any instructions for book-entry transfer of such Note.
 
Section 4.01
Payment of Notes.
(a) The Company shall promptly make all payments on the Notes on the dates, in the manner and as otherwise required under the Notes or this Indenture. If the Company is required to deliver any amounts of cash and/or shares of Common Stock to the Trustee, the Paying Agent or the Conversion Agent, such amounts of cash and/or shares of Common Stock shall be deposited by the Company with the Trustee, the Paying Agent or the Conversion Agent by 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the required date. The Company may, at its option, make payments on any Certificated Notes by check mailed to a Holder's registered address; , , that if a Holder of more than $5,000,000 principal amount of Certificated Notes requests in writing that the Company make payments on its Certificated Notes by wire transfer to an account in the United States, the Company shall, beginning with the interest payment corresponding to the next Record Date, make all subsequent payments due to such Holder to such account until such Holder notifies the Registrar in writing that the Company should no longer make payments by wire transfer to such account. If the Notes are held in book-entry form, the Company shall make all payments by wire transfer.
provided
however
(b) The Company shall make any required interest payments (including of Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, to the Person in whose name each Note is registered at the Close of Business on the Record Date for such interest payment. The principal, accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, or payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price shall be considered paid on the applicable date due if on such date (or, in the case of a Fundamental Change Purchase Price, on the Business Day following the applicable Fundamental Change Purchase Date) the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, cash sufficient to pay all such amounts then due.
Section 4.02
SEC and Other Reports.
(a) For so long as the Notes are outstanding, the Company shall file with the SEC and the Trustee the Company's annual and quarterly reports, information, documents and other reports which the Company is required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may by rules and regulations prescribe) and, within 15 days of the date on which the Company would be required to file the same with the SEC (after giving effect to any grace period provided by Rule 12b-25 under the Exchange Act). Documents filed by the Company with the SEC via the EDGAR filing system will be deemed to be filed with the Trustee as of the time such documents are filed via the EDGAR filing system. The Company shall comply with the other provisions of TIA Section 314(a). Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely conclusively on Officer's Certificates).
(b) If, at any time during the six-month period beginning on, and including, the date which is six months after the last date of original issuance of the Notes and ending on the Free Trade Date, the Company fails to timely file any periodic report that the Company is required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as applicable (other than current reports on Form 8-K), and the Company does not cure such failure
 
to file within 14 calendar days, the Company shall pay interest (the "") on the Notes, accruing from the due date of the first missed filing that gives rise to such obligation and continuing until the earlier of (i) the Free Trade Date and (ii) the date all such filings have been made. During the first 90 days on which such Additional Interest is payable, such Additional Interest shall accrue at a rate of 0.25% per annum; thereafter, such Additional Interest shall accrue at a rate of 0.50% per annum.
Additional Interest
(c) In addition, if the Company fails to cause the Notes or any shares of the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes that are held by Holders that have not been Affiliates of the Company during the immediately preceding three months to become Freely Tradable on and at all times after the Free Trade Date (or the next succeeding Business Day if the Free Trade Date is not a Business Day), the Company will pay Additional Interest on the Notes accruing from the Free Trade Date and until the date on which the Notes and any shares of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion of the Notes become Freely Tradable. During the first 90 days on which such Additional Interest is payable, such Additional Interest will accrue at a rate of 0.25% per annum; thereafter, such Additional Interest will accrue at a rate of 0.50% per annum.
(d) Notwithstanding anything else in this Indenture, in no event will (i) the combined rate of any Additional Interest payable under this Section 4.02 and of any Special Interest payable under Section 6.01(c) exceed 0.50% per annum; or (ii) Additional Interest accrue on any day in which (A)(1) the Company has filed a shelf registration statement for the resale of the Notes, (2) such shelf registration statement is effective and usable by Holders for the resale of the Notes, and (3) the Holders may register the resale of their Notes under such shelf registration statement on terms customary for the resale of convertible securities offered in reliance on Rule 144A; or (B) conditions (A)(1) through (A)(3) of this sentence have been satisfied for a period of two years.
(e) Whenever Additional Interest is accruing on a Record Date, the Company will pay all accrued and unpaid Additional Interest to the Holders of record on such Record Date on the corresponding Interest Payment Date. If Additional Interest is not accruing on a Record Date, but has accrued since the immediately preceding Record Date, the Company shall pay any accrued and unpaid Additional Interest on the Interest Payment Date corresponding to the latter Record Date to Holders of record on the latter Record Date.
If the Company is required to pay Additional Interest or Special Interest to Holders, the Company shall provide a direction or order in the form of a written notice to the Trustee (and if the Trustee is not the Paying Agent, to the Paying Agent) of the Company's obligation to pay such Additional Interest or Special Interest no later than three Business Days prior to the date on which any such Additional Interest or Special Interest is scheduled to be paid. Such notice shall set forth the amount of Additional Interest or Special Interest to be paid by the Company on such payment date and direct the Trustee (or, if the Trustee is not the Paying Agent, to the Paying Agent) to make payment to the extent it receives funds from the Company to do so. The Trustee shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder to determine whether the Additional Interest or Special Interest is payable, or with respect to the nature, extent, or calculation of the amount of the Additional Interest or Special Interest owed, or with respect to the method employed in such calculation of the Additional Interest or Special Interest.
 
Section 4.03 Within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year (beginning with the fiscal year ending January 31, 2010) of the Company, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate (which Officer's Certificate shall not be required to include such statements included in Section 12.05) stating whether, to the knowledge of the signers thereof, the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge.
Compliance Certificate.
Section 4.04 Upon request of the Trustee, the Company will execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts as may be reasonably necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purposes of this Indenture.
Further Instruments and Acts.
Section 4.05 The Company will maintain, in the continental United States, an office or agency of the Trustee, Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent where Notes may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, repurchase, or conversion and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee shall initially be such office or agency for all of the aforesaid purposes. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and of any change in the location, of any such office or agency (other than a change in the location of the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee). If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the address of the Trustee set forth in Section 12.02.
Maintenance of Office or Agency.
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations.
Section 4.06 At any time when the Company is not subject to Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, upon the request of a Holder, or any beneficial owner of, or prospective purchaser of, the Notes or a holder of, beneficial owner of, or prospective purchaser of, any shares of Common Stock issued upon the conversion of Notes, the Company will promptly furnish or cause to be furnished Rule 144A Information to such Holder, or any beneficial owner of, or prospective purchaser of, the Notes or holder of, beneficial owner of, or prospective purchaser of, shares of Common Stock issued upon the conversion of Notes, as the case may be, to the extent required to permit compliance by such Holder or holder with Rule 144A in connection with the resale of any such Note. Whether a Person is a beneficial owner shall be determined by the Company to the Company's reasonable satisfaction.
Delivery of Certain Information.
Section 4.07 The Company will not take any action that, after giving effect to any adjustment pursuant to Section 10.05, would result in the issuance of shares of Common Stock for less than the par value of such shares of Common Stock.
Par Value Limitation.
 
Section 5.01 The Company will not consolidate with, merge with or into, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its property and assets to, any Person unless the Company is the resulting, surviving or transferee Person unless:
Company May Consolidate, Merge or Sell Its Assets on Certain Terms.
(i) the resulting, surviving or transferee Person (the "") is a corporation organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, and the Successor Company expressly assumes, by executing and delivering a supplemental indenture to the Trustee, all of the Company's obligations under the Notes and under this Indenture;
Successor Company
(ii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred or shall be continuing; and
(iii) the Company and the Successor Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that:
(A) such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and such supplemental indenture complies with this Section 5.01; and
(B) that all conditions precedent to such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease provided for in this Indenture have been satisfied.
Section 5.02 Upon any such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and the assumption by the Successor Company, by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Trustee, of the due and punctual payment of the principal of, accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, on all of the Notes, the due and punctual delivery or payment, as the case may be, of any consideration due upon conversion of the Notes and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of this Indenture to be performed by the Company, such Successor Company shall succeed to and be substituted for the Company, with the same effect as if it had been named herein as the party of the first part. Such Successor Company thereupon may cause to be signed, and may issue in its own name, any or all of the Notes issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee; and, upon the order of such Successor Company instead of the Company and subject to all the terms, conditions and limitations in this Indenture prescribed, the Trustee shall authenticate and shall deliver, or cause to be authenticated and delivered, any Notes that such Successor Company thereafter shall cause to be signed and delivered to the Trustee for that purpose. All the Notes so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Indenture as the Notes theretofore or thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Indenture as though all of such Notes had been issued at the date of the execution hereof. Upon any such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer (but not upon a lease), the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture or any successor that shall thereafter have become such in the manner prescribed in this Article 5 may be dissolved, wound up and liquidated at any time thereafter and, except in the case of a lease, such Person shall be released from its liabilities as obligor and maker of the Notes and from its obligations under this Indenture.
Successor Corporation to Be Substituted.
 
In case of any such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease, changes in phraseology and form (but not in substance) may be made in the Notes thereafter to be issued as may be appropriate.
Section 6.01
Events of Default.
(a) Each of the following events shall be an "":
Event of Default
(i) the Company defaults in the payment of interest (including Additional Interest or Special Interest, if any) on any Note when the same becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days;
(ii) the Company defaults in the payment of the principal of any Note when the same becomes due and payable at the Maturity Date, upon declaration of acceleration, upon any Fundamental Change Purchase Date or otherwise;
(iii) the failure by the Company to deliver the consideration due upon the conversion of any Notes and such failure continues for a period of five Business Days;
(iv) the failure by the Company to give a Fundamental Change Notice as required pursuant to Section 3.03 or a Specified Corporate Transaction Notice as required under Section 10.01(a)(iv);
(v) the failure by the Company to comply with its obligations under Article 5 hereof;
(vi) the default by the Company in the performance of or the breach of any other covenant or agreement of the Company in this Indenture with respect to the Notes (other than a covenant or agreement in respect of which a default or breach is specifically addressed in Sections 6.01(a)(i) through 6.01(a)(v) above) and such default or breach continues for a period of 60 consecutive days after written notice of such default is delivered to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding;
(vii) the occurrence of an event of default by the Company as defined under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any indebtedness of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary for money borrowed, whether such indebtedness exists as of the Issue Date or is later created, if that event of default:
 
 
(viii) the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:
(A) commences a voluntary case;
(B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case;
(C) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property;
(D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or
(E) takes any comparable action under any foreign laws relating to insolvency; or
(ix) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
(A) is for relief against the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries in an involuntary case;
(B) appoints a Custodian of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or for any substantial part of its or any of its Significant Subsidiaries' property;
(C) orders the winding up or liquidation of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries; or
(D) grants any similar relief under any foreign laws;
and, in each such case, the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days.
Each of the foregoing will constitute an Event of Default whatever the cause and regardless of whether voluntary or involuntary or effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Notes or elsewhere in this Indenture, a Default under clause (vi) or (vii) of this Section 6.01(a) is not an Event of Default until the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding notify the Company (and in the case of such notice by Holders, the Trustee) of the
 
Default and the Company does not cure such Default within the time specified after receipt of such notice. Such notice must specify the Default, demand that it be remedied and state that such notice is a "Notice of Default."
(b) Within the 30 days immediately following the occurrence of an Event of Default or any Default, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee written notice thereof in the form of an Officer's Certificate describing such Event of Default or Default and its status and explaining what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Notes or elsewhere in this Indenture, excepted as provided in Section 4.02(b) or (c), at the election of the Company, the sole remedy for an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(a)(vi) relating to the failure by the Company to comply with Section 4.02(a) (the ""), including, without limitation, the obligation to comply with Section 314(a) of the TIA, shall consist exclusively of the right to receive interest (the "") on the Notes. For the first 90 days after the occurrence of such an Event of Default, the Special Interest will accrue at a rate equal to 0.25% per annum, and (ii) for the 90 days immediately following such 90 day period, the Special Interest will accrue at a rate equal to 0.50% per annum. The Special Interest will be in addition to any Additional Interest that the Company is required to pay under Section 4.02 and will be payable in the same manner as Additional Interest; , , that in no event will the combined rate of the Special Interest and any Additional Interest due under Section 4.02 exceed 0.50% per annum. This Special Interest will accrue on the Notes from and including the date on which an Event of Default relating to a failure to comply with the Company's Filing Obligations first occurs to but not including the 180th day thereafter (or such earlier date on which the Event of Default relating to such obligations shall have been cured or waived pursuant to Section 6.04). On such 180th day (or earlier, if such Event of Default is cured or waived pursuant to Section 6.04 prior to such 180th day), such Special Interest will cease to accrue and, if such Event of Default has not been cured or waived pursuant to Section 6.04 prior to such 180th day, then the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Notes may declare the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest on all such Notes to be due and payable immediately. This provision shall not affect the rights of Holders in the event of the occurrence of any other Event of Default. If the Company elects to pay the Special Interest as the sole remedy for an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(a)(v) relating to the failure by the Company to comply with the Company's Filing Obligations, the Company shall notify, in the manner provided for in Section 12.02, the Holders, the Paying Agent and the Trustee of such election at any time on or before the Close of Business on the fifth Business Day immediately following the date any such Event of Default first occurs (which notice shall include a statement as to the date from which Special Interest is payable). Unless and until a Trust Officer receives at the Corporate Trust Office such notice, the Trustee may assume without inquiry that no Special Interest is payable. If the Special Interest has been paid by the Company directly to the Persons entitled to it, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee a certificate setting forth the particulars of such payment.
Company's Filing Obligations
Special Interest
provided
however
Section 6.02 If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(a)(viii) or 6.01(a)(ix) with respect to the Company) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee, by notice to the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, by notice to the Company and the Trustee, may
Acceleration.
 
declare the principal amount of Notes outstanding plus accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, on all the Notes that are not already due and payable to be immediately due and payable. Upon such a declaration, such accelerated amount shall be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(viii) or 6.01(ix) with respect to the Company (and not solely with respect to one or more of its Significant Subsidiaries) occurs and is continuing, the principal amount of Notes outstanding plus accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, on all the Notes shall, automatically and without any action by the Trustee or any Holder, become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holders. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, by notice to the Trustee and the Company, and without notice to any other Holder, may rescind any declaration of acceleration if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction and if all existing Events of Default have been cured or waived other than nonpayment of the principal amount or accrued but unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, that has become due solely as a result of acceleration. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereto.
Section 6.03 If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal, accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, or payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price on the Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Notes or this Indenture.
Other Remedies.
The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of the Notes in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy. All available remedies are cumulative.
Section 6.04 The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding by written notice to the Trustee and without notice to any other Holder may waive an existing or past default and its consequences except (a) an Event of Default described in Sections 6.01(a)(i), 6.01(a)(ii) or 6.01(a)(iii) or (b) a default in respect of a provision that under Section 9.02 cannot be amended without the consent of each Holder. When a Default is waived, it is deemed cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any consequent right.
Waiver of Past Defaults.
Section 6.05 The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or, subject to Section 7.01, that the Trustee determines is prejudicial to the rights of other Holders or would potentially involve the Trustee in personal liability; , , that the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee that is not inconsistent with such direction. Prior to taking any action hereunder, the Trustee shall be entitled to reasonable indemnification against all losses and expenses caused by taking or not taking such action.
Control by Majority.
provided
however
 
Section 6.06 A Holder may pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Notes only if:
Limitation on Suits.
(a) such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice that an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing;
(b) the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding make a written request to the Trustee to take action because of the Event of Default;
(c) such Holder or Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs and other liabilities of compliance with such written request;
(d) the Trustee has not complied with such written request within 60 days after receiving such notice, written request and offer of security or indemnity; and
(e) during such 60-day period, the Trustee has not received from the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes outstanding at such time a direction inconsistent with such written request.
A Holder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of any other Holder or to obtain a preference or priority over any other Holder.
Section 6.07 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder to bring suit for the enforcement of payment of principal, accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, or payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price on or after the respective due dates, or the right to receive consideration due upon conversion of Notes in accordance with Article 10, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder and shall not be subject to the requirements of Section 6.06.
Rights of Holders to Receive Payment.
Section 6.08 If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(a)(i) or 6.01(a)(ii) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount then due and owing (together with interest on any unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, to the extent lawful) and the amounts provided for in Section 7.07.
Collection Suit by Trustee.
Section 6.09 The Trustee may file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and the Holders allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company, its creditors or its property and, unless prohibited by law or applicable regulations, may vote on behalf of the Holders in any election of a trustee in bankruptcy or other Person performing similar functions, and any Custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make payments to the Trustee and, if the Trustee shall consent to
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
 
the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and its counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07.
Section 6.10 If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article 6, it shall pay out the money in the following order:
Priorities.
FIRST: to the Trustee for amounts due under Section 7.07;
SECOND: to Holders for amounts due and unpaid on the Notes for principal, accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price and the cash deliverable upon conversion of Notes then submitted for conversion, as the case may be, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to such amounts due and payable on the Notes; and
THIRD: the balance, if any, to the Company.
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders pursuant to this Section 6.10. At least 15 days before such record date, the Company shall mail to each Holder and the Trustee a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount to be paid.
Section 6.11 In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.07 or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding.
Undertaking for Costs.
Section 6.12 The Company (to the extent it may lawfully do so) shall not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and shall not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but shall suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Waiver of Stay, Extension or Usury Laws.
 
Section 7.01
Duties of Trustee.
(a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise, as a prudent Person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such Person's own affairs.
(b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
(i) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
(ii) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; , , that the Trustee will examine the certificates and opinions to determine whether they conform to the requirements set forth in this Indenture.
provided
however
(c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liabilities for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
(i) this paragraph does not limit the effect of Section 7.01;
(ii) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Trust Officer unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
(iii) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05 hereof.
(d) Whether herein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to Sections 7.01(a), (b) and (c).
(e) The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it or risk or expend any of its own funds.
(f) Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
(g) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers.
(h) Every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Article 7 and to the provisions of the TIA, and the provisions of this Article 7 shall apply to the Trustee, Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent.
 
(i) The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of a Default or an Event of Default unless (i) a Trust Officer of the Trustee has received written notice at its Corporate Trust Office thereof from the Company or any Holder or (ii) a Trust Officer shall have actual knowledge thereof.
Section 7.02
Rights of Trustee.
(a) The Trustee may conclusively rely upon any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document. The Trustee may, however, in its discretion make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the expense of the Company and shall incur no liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation.
(b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting (except in connection with an application for authorization of Notes pursuant to Section 2.02), it may require an Officer's Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on the Officer's Certificate or Opinion of Counsel.
(c) The Trustee may act through agents, attorneys or custodians and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent, attorney or custodian appointed with due care.
(d) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within the rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture; , , that the Trustee's conduct does not constitute willful misconduct or negligence.
provided
however
(e) The Trustee may consult with counsel of its own selection, and the written advice or opinion of counsel with respect to legal matters relating to this Indenture and the Notes shall be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect to any action taken, omitted or suffered by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with the advice or opinion of such counsel.
(f) The permissive rights of the Trustee to do things enumerated in this Indenture shall not be construed as a duty unless so specified herein.
(g) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
(h) The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder, including, without limitation, the Registrar, Paying Agents and Conversion Agent.
 
(i) The Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officer's Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officer's Certificate may be signed by any Person authorized to sign an Officer's Certificate, including any Person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded.
Section 7.03 The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with the Company or its affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. However, if the Trustee acquires any conflicting interest it must eliminate the conflict within 90 days, if this Indenture has been qualified under the TIA, apply to the SEC to continue as trustee, or resign. Any Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or co-registrar may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee must comply with Sections 7.10 and 7.11.
Individual Rights of Trustee.
Section 7.04 The Trustee shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity, priority or adequacy of this Indenture or the Notes, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Notes, and it shall not be responsible for any statement of the Company in this Indenture or in any document issued in connection with the sale of the Notes or in the Notes other than the Trustee's certificate of authentication.
Trustee's Disclaimer.
Section 7.05 If a Default or Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it is known to a Trust Officer or written notice of it is received by the Trustee; , , that except in the case of a Default described in Section 6.01(a)(i), 6.01(a)(ii) or 6.01(iii), the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Trust Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of Holders. The second sentence of this Section 7.05 shall be in lieu of the proviso to TIA Section 315(b) and such proviso is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
Notice of Defaults.
provided
however
Section 7.06 Within 120 days of each January 31, commencing on January 31, 2011, and for so long as any Notes remain outstanding, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder a brief report dated as of January 31 of such year that complies with TIA Section 313(a), if and to the extent required by such subsection. The Trustee shall also comply with TIA Section 313(b). The Trustee will also transmit by mail all reports as required by TIA 313(c).
Reports by Trustee to Holders.
A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Holders shall be mailed by the Trustee to the Company and filed with the SEC and each stock exchange (if any) on which the Notes are listed. The Company agrees to notify promptly the Trustee whenever the Notes become listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof.
Section 7.07 . The Company shall pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation as shall be agreed upon from time to time in writing for its
Compensation and Indemnity
 
services. The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Company shall reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable out-of-pocket fees and expenses incurred or made by it, including costs of collection, in addition to the compensation for its services. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation, fees and expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee's agents, counsel, accountants and experts. The Company shall fully indemnify the Trustee against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage or expense (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by it in connection with the acceptance and administration of this trust and the performance of its duties hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company, any Holder or any other Person). The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. Failure by the Trustee to so notify the Company of any claim for which it may seek indemnity of which a Trust Officer has actually received written notice shall not relieve the Company of its obligations hereunder except to the extent such failure shall have materially prejudiced the Company. The Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall cooperate in the defense. If the Trustee is advised by counsel in writing that it may have available to it defenses which are in conflict with the defenses available to the Company, then the Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss, liability or expense incurred by the Trustee through the Trustee's own willful misconduct or negligence. The Company need not pay for any settlement made by the Trustee without the Company's consent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld. All indemnifications and releases from liability granted hereunder to the Trustee shall extend to its officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys, custodians, successors and assigns.
(a) To secure the Company's payment obligations under this Section 7.07, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee other than money or property held in trust to pay the principal, accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, or payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price on particular Notes.
(b) The Company's payment obligations pursuant to this Section 7.07 shall survive the resignation or removal of the Trustee and the discharge of this Indenture. If the Trustee incurs expenses after the occurrence of a Default specified in Sections 6.01(viii) or 6.01(ix) with respect to the Company, the expenses are intended to constitute expenses of administration under the Bankruptcy Law.
Section 7.08 . (a) The Trustee may resign at any time by notifying the Company in writing at least 30 days prior to the proposed resignation. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may remove the Trustee by notifying the Trustee in writing. The Company may remove the Trustee if:
Replacement of Trustee
(i) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10;
(ii) the Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent;
 
(iii) a receiver or other public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
(iv) the Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of acting.
(b) If the Trustee resigns, is removed by the Company or by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason (the Trustee in such event being referred to herein as the retiring Trustee), the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee.
(c) A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders. The retiring Trustee shall upon payment of all of its costs and the costs of its agents and counsel promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in Section 7.07.
(d) If a successor Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of at least 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
(e) If the Trustee, after written request by any Holder, fails to comply with Section 7.10, such Holder may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
(f) Notwithstanding the replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.08, the Company's obligations under Section 7.07 shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
Section 7.09 (a) If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all its corporate trust business or assets to, another corporation or banking association, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation or banking association without any further act shall be the successor Trustee.
Successor Trustee by Merger.
(b) In case at the time such successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture, any of the Notes shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor trustee, and deliver such Notes so authenticated; and in case at that time any of the Notes shall not have been authenticated, any such successor to the Trustee may authenticate such Notes either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor to the Trustee.
Section 7.10 The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA Section 310(a). The Trustee shall have (or, in the case of a corporation included in a bank holding company system, the related bank holding company shall have) a combined capital and surplus of at least $100,000,000 as set forth in its (or its related bank
Eligibility; Disqualification.
 
holding company's) most recent published annual report of condition. The Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 310(b), subject to the penultimate paragraph thereof; , , that there shall be excluded from the operation of TIA Section 310(b)(1) any indenture or indentures under which other securities or certificates of interest or participation in other securities of the Company are outstanding if the requirements for such exclusion set forth in TIA Section 310(b)(1) are met.
provided
however
Section 7.11 The Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein.
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
Section 7.12 Any application by the Trustee for written instructions from the Company may, at the option of the Trustee, set forth in writing any action proposed to be taken or omitted by the Trustee under this Indenture and the date on and/or after which such action shall be taken or such omission shall be effective. The Trustee shall not be liable to the Company for any action taken by, or omission of, the Trustee in accordance with a proposal included in such application on or after the date specified in such application (which date shall not be less than three Business Days after the date any officer of the Company actually receives such application, unless any such officer shall have consented in writing to any earlier date) unless prior to taking any such action (or the effective date in the case of any omission), the Trustee shall have received written instructions in response to such application specifying the action to be taken or omitted.
Trustee's Application for Instructions from the Company.
Section 8.01 When (a) the Company delivers to the Registrar all outstanding Notes (other than Notes replaced pursuant to Section 2.07) for cancellation or (b) all outstanding Notes have become due and payable, and the Company irrevocably deposits with the Trustee or delivers to the Holders, as applicable, cash and/or shares of Common Stock (solely to satisfy outstanding conversions, if applicable) sufficient to pay all amounts due and owing on all outstanding Notes (other than Notes replaced pursuant to Section 2.07), and if in either case the Company pays all other sums payable hereunder by the Company with respect to the outstanding Notes, then this Indenture shall, subject to Section 7.07, cease to be of further effect with respect to the Notes or any Holders. The Trustee shall acknowledge satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to the Notes on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel and at the cost and expense of the Company.
Discharge of Liability on Notes.
Section 8.02 The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall promptly turn over to the Company upon request any excess money or securities held by them at any time.
Repayment to the Company.
Subject to any applicable abandoned property law, the Trustee and the Paying Agent shall pay to the Company upon request any money held by them for payments on the Notes that remains unclaimed for two years after the date on which such payments became due, and, thereafter, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors and all liability of the Trustee or Paying Agent with respect to such money will cease.
 
Section 9.01 The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Notes without the consent of any Holder to:
Without Consent of Holders.
(a) cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency in this Indenture or in the Notes;
(b) conform the terms of this Indenture or the Notes to the "Description of Notes" section of the Offering Memorandum;
(c) make provisions with respect to the conversion rights of the Holders in accordance with Section 10.06 hereof;
(d) provide for the assumption by a successor corporation of the Company's obligations under this Indenture as described in Article 5 hereof;
(e) add guarantees with respect to the Notes;
(f) secure the Notes;
(g) add to the Company's covenants for the benefit of the Holders or surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company;
(h) make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder;
(i) appoint a successor Trustee with respect to the Notes;
(j) comply with the rules of any applicable securities depositary, including DTC; or
(k) comply with any requirements of the SEC in connection with the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA.
Section 9.02 With the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding (including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a purchase of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, the Notes), by Act of such Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Notes; , , that, without the consent of each affected Holder, no amendment or supplement to this Indenture or the Notes may:
With Consent of Holders.
provided
however
(a) reduce the percentage in aggregate principal amount of Notes whose Holders must consent to an amendment of this Indenture or to waive any past Event of Default;
 
(b) reduce the rate of or extend the stated time for payment of interest (including any Additional Interest or Special Interest) on any Note;
(c) reduce the principal amount or extend the Maturity Date of any Note;
(d) make any change that impairs or adversely affects the conversion rights of any Notes under Article 10 hereof, subject to the provisions set forth in Article 10.06 hereof;
(e) reduce the Fundamental Change Purchase Price of any Note or amend or modify in any manner adverse to the Holders the Company's obligation to make such payments;
(f) make any Note payable in a currency other than that stated in the Note;
(g) change the ranking of the Notes;
(h) impair the right of any Holder to receive payment of the principal of, and interest (including Additional Interest or Special Interest), if any, on, such Holder's Notes on or after the due dates therefor or to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or with respect to such Holder's Notes; or
(i) make any change to the amendment provisions of this Indenture which require each Holder's consent or in the waiver provisions of this Indenture.
It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof.
Section 9.03 Upon the request of the Company, the Trustee shall sign any supplemental indenture authorized pursuant to this Article 9 if the amendment contained therein does not affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee. If the supplemental indenture adversely affects the Trustee's rights, duties, liabilities or immunities under this Indenture, then the Trustee may, but need not, sign such supplemental indenture. In executing any such supplemental indenture, the Trustee shall be provided with, and (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that such supplemental indenture is authorized and permitted under this Indenture.
Execution of Supplemental Indentures.
Section 9.04 After an amendment or supplement to this Indenture or the Notes pursuant to Sections 9.01 or 9.02 becomes effective, the Company shall mail to each Holder a notice briefly describing such amendment or supplement to this Indenture. The failure to deliver such notice, or any defect in such notice, shall not impair or affect the validity of such amendment or supplement to this Indenture.
Notices of Supplemental Indentures.
Section 9.05 Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article 9, (i) this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, (ii) such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes, and (iii) every Holder of Notes theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
 
Section 9.06 Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall comply with the TIA.
Conformity with Trust Indenture Act.
Section 9.07 Notes authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article 9 may, and shall, if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Notes so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for outstanding Notes.
Notation on or Exchange of Notes.
Section 9.08 A consent to an amendment or a waiver by a Holder of a Note shall bind the Holder and every subsequent Holder of that Note or portion of the Note that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Note, even if notation of the consent or waiver is not made on the Note. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent or waiver as to such Holder's Note or portion of the Note if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the supplemental indenture setting forth the amendment or waiver becomes effective. After an amendment or waiver becomes effective, it shall bind every Holder. An amendment or waiver becomes effective in accordance with the terms of the supplemental indenture, which shall become effective upon the execution thereof by the Trustee.
Revocation and Effect of Consents, Waivers and Actions.
The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders entitled to give their consent or take any other action described above or required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Indenture. If a record date is fixed, then those Persons who were Holders at such record date (or their duly designated proxies), and only those Persons, shall be entitled to give such consent or to revoke any consent previously given or to take any such action, whether or not such Persons continue to be Holders after such record date. No such consent shall be valid or effective for more than 120 days after such record date.
Section 10.01
Conversion Privilege and Consideration.
(a) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Indenture, a Holder shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to convert the principal amount of its Notes, or any portion of such principal amount that is equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof, at a conversion rate initially equal to 11.7147 shares of the Common Stock (subject to adjustment as provided in Sections 10.05 and 10.07, the "") per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, into an amount of cash and a number of shares of the Common Stock, if any, determined in accordance with Section 10.03, (x) at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding October 15, 2014, only upon the satisfaction of one or more of the conditions described in clauses (i) through (iv) below, and (y) on and after October 15, 2014, at any time until the Close of Business on the second Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date, without regard to the conditions described in clauses (i) through (iv) below:
Conversion Rate
(i) During any fiscal quarter (and only during such fiscal quarter) commencing after April 30, 2010 if, for at least 20 Trading Days (whether or not consecutive) during the 30 consecutive Trading Day period ending on the last Trading Day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter, the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable Conversion Price on such Trading Day. If the Notes become convertible in accordance with this Section 10.01(a)(i), as promptly as practicable, the Company shall notify the Holders that the condition to conversion described in this Section 10.01(a)(i) has been satisfied.
 
(ii) During the five consecutive Business Day period immediately following any ten consecutive Trading Day period (the "") in which, for each Trading Day of such Measurement Period, the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, as determined following a request by a Holder in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 10.01(a)(ii), is less than 98% of the product of (x) the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on such Trading Day and (y) the Conversion Rate on such Trading Day (for any Trading Day, the "").
Measurement Period
Trading Price Product
(A) Unless the Company requests that the Bid Solicitation Agent determine the Trading Price of the Notes, the Bid Solicitation Agent shall have no obligation to determine the Trading Price of the Notes, and unless a Holder of at least $1,000,000 principal amount of Notes (x) provides the Company with reasonable evidence that the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes for the immediately following Trading Day will be less than 98% of the Trading Price Product for such Trading Day and (y) requests that the Company require the Bid Solicitation Agent to determine the Trading Price of the Notes on the immediately following Trading Day, the Company shall have no obligation to request that the Bid Solicitation Agent determine the Trading Price of the Notes on such Trading Day.
(B) Upon receipt from a Holder of such evidence and such a request, the Company shall promptly instruct the Bid Solicitation Agent to determine (or, if the Company is then acting as Bid Solicitation Agent, the Company shall determine) the Trading Price of the Notes beginning on the next Trading Day and on each successive Trading Day until a Trading Day occurs in which the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes for such Trading Day is greater than or equal to 98% of the Trading Price Product for such Trading Day.
(C) As promptly as practicable after the condition to conversion described in this Section 10.01(a)(ii) has been met, the Company shall notify the Holders of the Trading Price and of the Holders' rights to convert their Notes in accordance with this Section 10.01(a)(ii). On the first Trading Day thereafter on which the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Notes for such Trading Day is greater than or equal to 98% of the Trading Price Product for such Trading Day, as promptly as practicable, the Company shall notify the Holders of such Trading Price and that the condition to conversion described in this Section 10.01(a)(ii) is no longer satisfied.
(iii) If the Company elects to:
(A) issue to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock rights, options or warrants that entitle them, for a period of not more than 60 calendar days after the
 
announcement date of such issuance, to subscribe for or purchase shares of the Common Stock at a price per share of Common Stock less than the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock for the ten consecutive Trading Day period ending on, and including, the Trading Day immediately preceding the date of announcement of such issuance; or
(B) distribute to all or substantially all holders of the Common Stock the Company's assets, debt securities or rights to purchase securities of the Company, which distribution has a per share value, as reasonably determined by the Board of Directors, exceeding 10% of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the date of announcement for such distribution,
then, in each case, at least 35 Scheduled Trading Days immediately prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such issuance or distribution, the Company shall mail notice to the Holders describing such issuance or distribution, the Holders' rights to convert their Notes in accordance with this Section 10.01(a)(iii), the Conversion Rate in effect on the date the Company mails such notice, any adjustments to the Conversion Rate that must be made pursuant to Section 10.05 as a result of such issuance or distribution, and the effective date for any such adjustments. Once the Company has given such notice, a Holder may surrender its Notes for conversion at any time until the earlier of (x) the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for the issuance or distribution or (y) the Company's announcement that such issuance or distribution will not take place.
(iv) If a transaction or event that constitutes a Fundamental Change or a Make-Whole Fundamental Change occurs, in each case, without giving effect to the penultimate paragraph of the definition of Fundamental Change and regardless of whether the Holders have the right to require the Company to purchase their Notes pursuant to Section 3.02 (a ""), the Company shall mail notice (a "") of such Specified Corporate Transaction to the Holders as promptly as practicable after the Company first learns of the anticipated or actual effective date of such Specified Corporate Transaction; that, for any Specified Corporate Transaction, the Company will use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver the Specified Corporate Transaction Notice for such Specified Corporate Transaction at least 35 Scheduled Trading Days immediately prior to the effective date for such Specified Corporate Transaction. For any Specified Corporate Transaction, the Specified Corporate Transaction Notice shall describe:
Specified Corporate Transaction
Specified Corporate Transaction Notice
provided
(A) such Specified Corporate Transaction;
(B) the anticipated effective date of such Specified Corporate Transaction;
(C) the Holders' rights to convert their Notes in accordance with this Section 10.01(a)(iv);
(D) the Conversion Rate in effect on the date the Company mails such notice;
(E) any adjustments to the Conversion Rate that must be made pursuant to Section 10.05 as a result of such transaction;
 
(F) whether such Specified Corporate Transaction also constitutes a Fundamental Change, and, if so, the Holders' rights to require the Company to purchase their Notes pursuant to Article 3; and
(G) whether such Specified Corporate Transaction also constitutes a Make-Whole Fundamental Change, and, if so, the Holders' rights under Section 10.07 to receive Additional Shares if they convert their Notes in connection with such Make-Whole Fundamental Change.
Upon the Company's delivery of a Specified Corporate Transaction Notice for a Specified Corporate Transaction, a Holder may surrender its Notes for conversion at any time until the Close of Business on the earliest of (w) the 35th Trading Day immediately following the effective date of such transaction, (x) if such Specified Corporate Transaction constitutes a Fundamental Change, the related Fundamental Change Purchase Date, or (y) if the Company announces that such Specified Corporate Transaction will not occur, the date on which the Company makes such announcement, and (z) the second Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date.
Section 10.02
Conversion Procedure.
(a) To convert a Note, a Holder must (i) in the case of a Global Note, (A) comply with the procedures of the Depositary in effect on the date such Holder surrenders its Note for conversion and (B) if required, pay all funds required under Sections 10.02(e) and 10.02(f) below, and (ii) in the case of a Certificated Note, (A) complete and manually sign the conversion notice in the form on the reverse of such Certificated Note (a "") or a facsimile of the Notice of Conversion, (B) deliver the Notice of Conversion, which is irrevocable, and the Certificated Note to the Conversion Agent, (C) if required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents, (D) if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes, and (E) if required, pay all funds required under Sections 10.02(e) and 10.02(f) below.
Notice of Conversion
(i) On the first Business Day on which such Holder satisfies all of the requirements set forth in Section 10.02(a) above with respect to a Note (and the conversion of such Note is not otherwise prohibited by Section 3.05 hereof), such Note will be deemed converted and such Business Day will be the conversion date (the "") for such Note.
Conversion Date
(ii) If the last day on which a Note may be converted is not a Business Day, the Note may be surrendered on the immediately following day that is a Business Day. Upon the conversion of a Note, the Conversion Agent, as promptly as possible, and in no event later than one Business Day immediately following the Conversion Date for the Note, will provide the Company with notice of the conversion of the Note, and the Company, as promptly as possible, and in no event later than two Business Days after such Conversion Date, will notify the Trustee, if other than the Conversion Agent, of the conversion of the Note.
(b) If a Holder converts the entire principal amount of a Note, such Person will no longer be a Holder of such Note.
 
(c) If a Holder surrenders only a portion of a Certificated Note for conversion, promptly after the Conversion Date for such portion, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to such Holder, a new Certificated Note in an authorized denomination equal to the aggregate principal amount of the unconverted portion of the surrendered Note. Upon the conversion of an interest in a Global Note, the Trustee shall promptly make a notation on the "Schedule of Increases and Decreases of Global Note" of such Global Note as to the reduction in the principal amount represented thereby. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing upon any conversion of a Note effected through any Conversion Agent other than the Trustee.
(d) If any shares of Common Stock are issuable upon the conversion of a Note, the Person in whose name the certificate or certificates for such shares of Common Stock will be registered will become the holder of record of such shares at the Close of Business on the last VWAP Trading Day of the Observation Period corresponding to the Conversion Date for such Note.
(e) If a Holder surrenders a Note for conversion after the Close of Business on a Record Date and prior to the Open of Business on the corresponding Interest Payment Date, the Holder must accompany the Note with an amount of cash equal to the amount of interest (including any Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, that will be payable on the Note on such corresponding Interest Payment Date; , , that a Holder need not make such a payment (i) if the Company has specified a Fundamental Change Purchase Date that is after the Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, (ii) to the extent of any overdue interest on the Note, if any overdue interest exists at the time of conversion, or (iii) if the Holder surrenders the Note after the Close of Business on the last Record Date immediately preceding the Maturity Date.
provided
however
(f) If a Holder surrenders a Note for conversion, the Company shall pay all stamp taxes and all other duties, if any, which may be imposed by the United States or any political subdivision thereof or taxing authority thereof or therein with respect to the issuance of shares of Common Stock, if any, upon the conversion. However, if any tax is due because the Holder requests that any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion be issued in a name other than that of the Holder, the Holder shall pay such tax and the Conversion Agent, until having received a sum sufficient to pay such tax, may refuse to deliver any certificates representing shares of Common Stock being issued in a name other than that of the converting Holder. Nothing herein shall preclude any tax withholding required by law or regulations.
Section 10.03
Settlement Upon Conversion.
(a) Except as provided in Section 10.07(d), if a Holder surrenders a Note for conversion, the Company will satisfy its obligation to convert the Note by delivering, on the third Business Day immediately following the final VWAP Trading Day of the Observation Period corresponding to the Conversion Date for such Note, cash and shares of Common Stock, if any, equal to the sum of the Daily Settlement Amount for each of the 30 Trading Days during the Observation Period for such Note.
 
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10.03(a), the Company may elect to settle all or a portion of the Daily Share Amounts for each VWAP Trading Day in the Observation Period relating to a Conversion Date in cash (a "").
Cash Election
(i) To make a Cash Election with respect to all or a portion of the Daily Share Amounts for each Trading Day in the Observation Period relating to a Conversion Date, on the Business Day immediately following such Conversion Date, the Company must deliver notice (a "") to all Holders converting Notes on such Conversion Date. The Cash Percentage Notice for a Conversion Date must specify the single percentage of the Daily Share Amounts for each VWAP Trading Day in the Observation Period for such Conversion Date that the Company will settle in cash (the ""); that to make a Cash Election with respect to a Conversion Date occurring on or after the 35th Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date, the Company must (A) irrevocably specify a single Cash Percentage that will apply to every Conversion Date occurring on or after the 35th Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date and (B) deliver a Cash Percentage Notice specifying such Cash Percentage to every Holder on or prior to the Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the 35th Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date.
Cash Percentage Notice
Cash Percentage
provided
(ii) If the Company timely delivers a Cash Percentage Notice for a Conversion Date, (x) the amount of cash that the Company will deliver in lieu of the applicable portion of the shares of Common Stock comprising the Daily Share Amount for a VWAP Trading Day in the Observation Period relating to such Conversion Date will equal the product of (A) the Cash Percentage specified in the Cash Percentage Notice for such Conversion Date, (B) the Daily Share Amount for such VWAP Trading Day (calculated as if the Company had not specified a Cash Percentage), and (C) the Daily VWAP for such VWAP Trading Day, and (y) the number of shares of Common Stock that the Company will deliver as part of the Daily Share Amount for such VWAP Trading Day will equal the product of (A) 100% minus the Cash Percentage for such Conversion Date and (B) the Daily Share Amount for such VWAP Trading Day (calculated as if the Company had not specified a Cash Percentage).
(iii) If, for any Conversion Date, the Company fails to deliver a Cash Percentage Notice in accordance with Section 10.03(b)(i), the Company must instead settle the Daily Share Amount for each VWAP Trading Day in the Observation Period relating to such Conversion Date by delivering a number of shares of Common Stock determined in accordance with Section 10.03(a).
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company will not issue fractional shares of Common Stock as part of the Daily Share Amount. Instead, if the Daily Share Amount for any VWAP Trading Day includes a fraction of a share of the Common Stock, the Company will, in lieu of delivering such fraction of a share of Common Stock, pay an amount of cash equal to the product of (i) such fraction of a share and (ii) the Daily VWAP for such VWAP Trading Day of such Observation Period.
(d) If a Holder surrenders more than one Note for conversion on a single day, the number of shares of Common Stock, if any, that the Company will deliver, and the amount of cash that the Company will pay in lieu of fractional shares of Common Stock, if any, shall be determined based on the total principal amount of Notes surrendered by such Holder.
 
(e) If a Holder converts a Note, the Company will not adjust the Conversion Rate to account for any accrued and unpaid interest on the Note, and, except to the extent specified in the last sentence of Section 11.01 or in Section 11.02(a), the Company will not make any cash payment to such Holder for any accrued and unpaid interest on the Note. Furthermore, except to the extent specified in the last sentence of Section 11.01 or in Section 11.02(a), the Company's delivery to such Holder of the amount of cash and the number of shares of Common Stock, if any, into which such Holder's Note is convertible shall be deemed to satisfy and discharge in full the Company's obligation to pay to such Holder (i) the principal amount of such converted Note and (ii) any accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest, but not Defaulted Interest), if any, on such converted Note. As a result, except to the extent specified in the last sentence of Section 11.01 or in Section 11.02(a), any accrued and unpaid interest with respect to a converted Note shall be deemed to be paid in full rather than cancelled, extinguished or forfeited.
(f) .
Notices
(i) On the second Business Day immediately following the Conversion Date for any Notes, the Company shall deliver written notice to the Trustee stating (A) the aggregate principal amount of Notes converted on such Conversion Date, (B) whether the Company has made a Cash Election with respect to such Conversion Date, and (C) if the Company has made a Cash Election for such Conversion Date, the Cash Percentage for such Conversion Date.
(ii) On the first Business Day immediately following the last VWAP Trading Day of the Observation Period for each Conversion Date, the Company shall deliver written notice to the Trustee stating (A) the aggregate principal amount of Notes that were converted on such Conversion Date, (B) the aggregate amount of cash and the aggregate number of Shares that the Company is obligated to deliver to settle all of the Notes converted on such Conversion Date, and (C) the Daily Share Amounts and the Daily Settlement Amounts for each VWAP Trading Day of the Observation Period for such Conversion Date.
Section 10.04 The Company shall, prior to issuance of any shares of Common Stock under this Article 10, and from time to time as may be necessary, reserve out of its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to permit the conversion of the Notes.
Company to Provide Stock.
(a) Any shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Notes shall be newly issued shares or treasury shares, shall be duly and validly issued and fully paid and nonassessable, and shall be free from preemptive rights and shall be free of any lien or adverse claim (except any lien or adverse claim created by the action or inaction of the Holder to whom such shares are delivered). The Company will endeavor promptly to comply with all federal and state securities laws regulating the offer and delivery of Common Stock, as applicable and if any, upon conversion of Notes; , that the Company shall not be obligated to register the offer and sale of the Common Stock under the Securities Act or any other applicable securities laws. In addition, the Company will cause any such shares of Common Stock to be listed on any stock
provided
 
exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed and will comply with any stock exchange rules applicable to the Notes and/or the Common Stock (or Reference Property) issuable upon conversion of the Notes.
(b) If any shares of the Common Stock issued upon conversion are required to bear a Restricted Stock Legend, such shares will be issued in physical certificated form, will not be held in book-entry form through the facilities of the Depositary and shall be treated as "restricted securities" (as defined under Rule 144), and the Company will affix, or will direct its transfer agent to affix the Restricted Stock Legend that is set forth in Exhibit C upon such shares.
Section 10.05 The Conversion Rate will be adjusted as described in this Section 10.05, except that the Company will not make any adjustments to the Conversion Rate for any Holder that may participate (as a result of holding the Notes, and at the same time as the holders of the Common Stock participate) in any of the transactions described below as if such Holder held, for each $1,000 principal amount of Notes held, a number of shares of the Common Stock equal to the applicable Conversion Rate, without having to convert its Notes.
Adjustments to the Conversion Rate.
(a) . If the Company issues solely shares of the Common Stock as a dividend or distribution on all or substantially all of the shares of the Common Stock, or if the Company effects a share split or a share combination of the Common Stock, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
Dividends, Distributions, Splits and Combinations
 
 
Any adjustment made under this Section 10.05(a) shall become effective immediately after the Open of Business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution or the
 
effective date for such share split or combination, as the case may be. If any dividend or distribution of the type described in this Section 10.05(a) is declared but not so paid or made, then the Conversion Rate shall immediately be readjusted, effective as of the date the Company's Board of Directors determines not to pay such dividend or distribution to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had such dividend or distribution not been declared or announced.
(b) If the Company issues to all or substantially all of the holders of the Common Stock any rights, options or warrants (other than pursuant to any rights plan in effect from time to time) entitling such holders for a period of not more than 60 calendar days after the announcement date of such issuance to subscribe for or purchase shares of the Common Stock, at a price per share less than the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock for the ten consecutive Trading Day period ending on, and including, the Trading Day immediately preceding the date of announcement of such issuance, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
Adjustment for Rights Issue.
 
 
Any adjustment made under this Section 10.05(b) will be made successively whenever any such rights, options or warrants are issued and shall become effective immediately after the Open of Business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such issuance. To the extent that shares of Common Stock are not delivered after the expiration of such rights, options or warrants, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the adjustment made upon the issuance of such rights, options or warrants been made on the basis of delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered. If such rights, options or warrants are not so issued, the Conversion Rate shall immediately be readjusted to equal the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the relevant adjustment pursuant to this Section 10.05(b) not occurred.
 
For purposes of this Section 10.05(b), in determining whether any issued rights, options or warrants entitle the holders of the Common Stock to subscribe for or purchase shares of the Common Stock at a price less than the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock for each Trading Day in the ten consecutive Trading Day period ending on, and including, the Trading Day immediately preceding the announcement date of such issuance, and in determining the aggregate offering price of such shares of Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration that the Company receives for such rights, options or warrants and any amount payable on exercise thereof, with the value of such consideration, if other than cash, to be determined by the Board of Directors.
(c) .
Other Distributions
(i) If the Company distributes shares of its Capital Stock, evidences of its indebtedness, other assets or property or rights or warrants to acquire its Capital Stock or other securities, to all or substantially all holders of the Common Stock, excluding:
 
 
 
 
then the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if "F" (as defined above) minus "M" (as defined above) is less than $1.00, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, each Holder shall receive, for each $1,000 principal amount of Notes held, at the same time and upon the same terms as holders of the Common Stock, the amount and kind of indebtedness, other assets or property of the Company or rights or warrants to acquire the Company's Capital Stock or other securities that such Holder would have received as if such Holder had owned a number of shares of the Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate in effect on the record date for such distribution.
Any adjustment made under this Section 10.05(c)(i) will become effective immediately after the Open of Business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. If such distribution is not so paid or made, or if any rights or warrants are not exercised before their expiration date, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had such distribution not been declared or to the extent such rights or warrants are not exercised, as applicable.
(ii) With respect to an adjustment pursuant to this Section 10.05(c) in which there has been a payment of a dividend or other distribution on the Common Stock of shares of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit of the Company and such dividend or distribution is listed for trading or quoted (or will be listed or quoted upon consummation of the spin-off) on a National Securities Exchange (a ""), the Conversion Rate will be increased based on the following formula:
Spin-off
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (A) if the last VWAP Trading Day of the Observation Period for any conversion occurs on or after the effective date for the Spin-off, but less than ten Trading Days immediately following, and including, the effective date for the Spin-off, references within this Section 10.05(c)(ii) to ten Trading Days shall be deemed replaced, for
 
purposes of calculating the affected Daily Settlement Amounts in respect of that conversion, with such lesser number of Trading Days as have elapsed from, and including, the effective date for the Spin-off to, and including, the last VWAP Trading Day of such Observation Period, and (B) for purposes of determining the Conversion Rate applicable to any conversion for which the Conversion Date occurs during the ten Trading Days commencing on the effective date for any Spin-off, references within the portion of this Section 10.05(c)(ii) to ten Trading Days shall be deemed replaced with such lesser number of Trading Days as have elapsed from, and including, the effective date for such Spin-off to, but excluding, the relevant Conversion Date.
Any adjustment made pursuant to this Section 10.05(c)(ii) shall become effective as of the Open of Business on the Ex-Dividend Date for the Spin-off. If such Spin-off is subsequently cancelled and does not become effective, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would have been in effect if such Spin-off had not been declared.
(d) . If the Company pays cash dividends or distributions to all or substantially all holders of the outstanding Common Stock, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula:
Adjustment for Cash Distributions
 
 
If "" (as defined above) minus "" (as defined above) is less than $1.00, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, each Holder shall receive, for each $1,000 principal amount of Notes held, at the same time and upon the same terms as holders of the Common Stock, the amount of cash such Holder would have received if such Holder had owned a number of shares of the Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate in effect on the record date for such distribution.
C
SP
Any adjustment made under this Section 10.05(d) will become effective immediately after the Open of Business on the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution. If such distribution is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had such distribution not been declared.
 
(e) . If the Company or any of its Subsidiaries makes a payment to holders of the Common Stock in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, to the extent that the cash and value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock exceeds the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock over the ten consecutive Trading Day period commencing on, and including, the Trading Day immediately following the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender offer or exchange offer (the ""), the Conversion Rate will be increased based on the following formula:
Adjustment for Tender Offers or Exchange Offers
Expiration Date
 
 
The adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 10.05(e) will be given effect at the Close of Business on the Expiration Date. If the Expiration Date is less than ten Trading Days prior to, and including, the last VWAP Trading Day of the Observation Period in respect of any conversion, references within this Section 10.05(e) to ten Trading Days shall be deemed replaced, for purposes of calculating the affected Daily Settlement Amounts in respect of that conversion, with such lesser number of Trading Days as have elapsed from, and including, the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Date to, and including, the last VWAP Trading Day of such Observation Period. For purposes of determining the Conversion Rate applicable to any conversion during the ten Trading Day period commencing on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Date, references within this Section 10.05(e) to ten Trading Days shall be deemed replaced with such lesser number of Trading Days as have elapsed from, and including, the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Date to, but excluding, the relevant Conversion Date.
 
(f) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, if pursuant to this Section 10.05, an adjustment to the Conversion Rate becomes effective on any Ex-Dividend Date or effective date and a Holder that has converted its Notes would (i) receive shares of Common Stock based on an adjusted Conversion Rate and (ii) be a record holder of the shares of Common Stock on the record date for the dividend, distribution or event giving rise to the adjustment pursuant to this Section 10.05, then, in lieu or receiving shares of Common Stock at such an adjusted Conversion Rate, such Holder will participate in the related dividend, distribution or other event giving rise to such adjustment and shall receive a number of shares of Common Stock, if any, upon conversion based on an unadjusted Conversion Rate.
Holder Participation in Adjustment Events
(g) .
Adjustments Not Yet Effective
If a Holder converts a Note and, on any VWAP Trading Day during the Observation Period corresponding to the Conversion Date for such Note:
(A) shares of Common Stock are deliverable as part of the Daily Settlement Amount for such VWAP Trading Day;
(B) any event that requires an adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Sections 10.05(a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) has occurred, but will not result in an adjustment to the Conversion Rate for such VWAP Trading Day for such Holder; and
(C) the shares of Common Stock (or the cash value thereof) that the Holder shall receive as part of the Daily Settlement Amount for such VWAP Trading Day will not be entitled to participate in the distribution or transaction requiring the adjustment (because such shares were not held by such Holder on the record date corresponding to such distribution or transaction or otherwise),
then the Company will adjust the number of shares of Common Stock (or the cash value thereof) deliverable to such Holder as part of the Daily Settlement Amount for such VWAP Trading Day in a manner that appropriately reflects the relevant distribution or transaction requiring adjustment.
In addition, if a Holder converts a Note and, on any VWAP Trading Day during the Observation Period corresponding to the Conversion Date for such Note, any event that requires an adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Sections 10.05(a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) has occurred, but will not result in an adjustment to the Conversion Rate for such VWAP Trading Day for such Holder, then the Company will adjust the amount of cash deliverable to such Holder as part of the Daily Settlement Amount for such VWAP Trading Day in a manner that appropriately reflects the relevant distribution or transaction requiring adjustment.
(h) . Whenever any provision of this Indenture requires the calculation of Last Reported Sale Prices, Daily VWAPs or any functions thereof over a span of multiple days, the Board of Directors will make appropriate adjustments to such prices, functions of such prices, the Conversion Rate, or the amount of cash and the number of shares of the
Other Adjustments
 
Common Stock, if any (subject to the Company's right under Section 10.03(b) to pay cash in lieu of all or a portion of any shares of Common Stock deliverable as part of a Daily Share Amount), due upon conversion to account for any adjustment to the Conversion Rate that becomes effective, or any event requiring an adjustment to the Conversion Rate in which the Ex-Dividend Date of the event occurs, at any time prior to or during the period over which such average is to be calculated.
(i) . If the Company adopts a stockholder rights plan and, on the Conversion Date for a Note, (i) such plan is in effect and (ii) the rights provided for in such plan have not yet separated from the Common Stock, each share of Common Stock issued upon the conversion of Notes on such Conversion Date (x) shall be entitled to receive the number of rights, if any, associated with one share of Common Stock under such stockholder rights plan, and (y) shall, if issued in certificated form, bear such legends, if any, as may be required under such stockholder rights plan; , , that if prior to the Conversion Date for a Note, the rights separate from the Common Stock in accordance with the provisions of the applicable stockholder rights plan, a converting Holder shall not be entitled to receive such rights upon conversion, and on the date of such separation, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted in accordance with Section 10.05(c); , , that such adjustment shall be subject to readjustment upon the expiration, termination of redemption of such separated rights.
Rights Plans
provided
however
provided
further
(j) . The Company need not adjust the Conversion Rate unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease in the Conversion Rate by at least 1%; that, if an adjustment to the Conversion Rate is not made because the adjustment does not change the Conversion Rate by at least 1% (after giving effect to any other adjustment not previously made but carried forward pursuant to this sentence), then all of the adjustments that have not been made and that are not made will be carried forward and taken into account in the first future adjustment that would result in an adjustment of at least 1% to the Conversion Rate; , , that notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) all such carried forward adjustments not previously made that would apply to a Note shall be made on the first VWAP Trading Day of the Observation Period corresponding to the Conversion Date for such Note and, on each subsequent VWAP Trading Day of such Observation Period, the Company shall be required to make any adjustments to the Conversion Rate that applies to such Note without regard to whether such adjustments could otherwise be carried forward pursuant to this Section 10.05(j).
Deferral of Adjustments
provided
provided
further
(k) . If this Article 10 requires adjustments to the Conversion Rate under more than one of Sections 10.05(a), (b), (c) or (d), and the Ex-Dividend Dates (or, in the case of a Spin-off, the effective date of such a Spin-off) for the distributions giving rise to such adjustments shall occur on the same date, then such adjustments shall be made, without duplication, by applying, first, the provisions of Section 10.05(a); second, the provisions of Section 10.05(c); third, the provisions of Section 10.05(d); and, fourth, the provisions of Section 10.05(b).
Simultaneous and Successive Adjustments
After an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Article 10, any subsequent event requiring an adjustment under this Article 10 shall cause an adjustment to the Conversion Rate as so adjusted, without duplication.
 
(l) . From time to time, the Company may (but is not required to) increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for a period of at least 20 Business Days if (i) the Board of Directors determines that such increase is in the best interest of the Company, (ii) such increase is irrevocable during such period and (iii) if any shares of the Company's Capital Stock are listed on New York Stock Exchange, such increase does not violate any applicable New York Stock Exchange rules. In addition, the Company may (but is not required to) increase the Conversion Rate to avoid or diminish the taxation of any subdivisions of the Common Stock, dividends on the Common Stock, rights distributions to purchase stock or other securities to holders of the Common Stock, or distributions to holders of the Common Stock of securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of the Common Stock.
Voluntary Increases
(m) . Except as specifically described in this Section 10.05, the Conversion Rate will not be subject to adjustment as a result of any issuance of shares of Common Stock, securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock or rights, options or warrants to purchase shares of Common Stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock. In addition, if the application of the formulas in Sections 10.05(a) through 10.05(e) would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment to the Conversion Rate will be made (other than as a result of a reverse share split or share combination); that, for the avoidance of doubt, if the Company adjusts the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 10.05(a), 10.05(b), 10.05(c), or 10.05(d) and the event that gave rise to the adjustment is not paid or made, delivered or issued or fails to become effective, as applicable, the Company may readjust the Conversion Rate as expressly contemplated in the applicable section. Without limiting the foregoing, the Conversion Rate will not be adjusted upon the following events:
No Other Adjustments
provided
(i) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on securities of the Company and the investment of additional optional amounts in shares of Common Stock under any plan;
(ii) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights to purchase those shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of or assumed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
(iii) ordinary course of business Capital Stock repurchases including structured or derivative transactions,
(iv) pursuant to a Capital Stock repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors (but, for the avoidance of doubt, excluding transactions described in Section 10.05(e));
(v) for a change in the par value of the Common Stock;
(vi) any accrued and unpaid interest (including any Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any; or
(vii) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right, or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the Issue Date.
 
(n) . Whenever an event occurs that will require an adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 10.05, the Company shall, at least 35 Scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of such adjustment, mail to the Holders a notice of such event describing the event requiring adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 10.05, the effective date of the adjustment and the adjusted Conversion Rate; , , that if on such date, the Company does not have knowledge of such event or the adjusted Conversion Rate cannot be calculated, the Company shall deliver such notice as promptly as practicable upon obtaining knowledge of such event or information sufficient to make such calculation, as the case may be, and in no event later than the effective date of such adjustment. On or before the day on which the Company is required to deliver notice to the Holders pursuant to this Section 10.05(n), the Company shall file such notice, together with an Officer's Certificate briefly describing the event triggering the adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 10.05 and the Company's manner of computing the adjustment, with the Conversion Agent and the Trustee. To the Trustee and the Conversion Agent, receipt of such notice and of such Officer's Certificate shall be conclusive evidence that the adjustment is correct and in effect on the effective date stated in such notice. Neither the Trustee nor the Conversion Agent shall be under any duty or responsibility with respect to any such notice of adjustment except to exhibit the same to any Holder desiring inspection thereof.
Notice of Adjustments
provided
however
Section 10.06
Effect of Reclassification, Consolidation, Merger or Sale.
(a) Upon the occurrence of:
(i) any recapitalization, reclassification or change of the Common Stock (other than a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value, or as a result of a subdivision or combination for which an adjustment is provided pursuant to Section 10.05);
(ii) any sale or conveyance to another person of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company;
(iii) any sale, lease or other transfer to another Person of substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries;
(iv) a consolidation, merger, or combination involving the Company; or
(v) any statutory share exchange,
and, in each case, as a result of which the Common Stock will be converted into, or exchanged for, stock, other securities, other property or assets (including cash or any combination including cash) (any such event, a "," such stock, securities, other property or assets, "," and the kind and amount of such stock, securities, other property or assets that a holder of one share of the Common Stock immediately prior to the effective date of such Merger Event would have been entitled to receive upon the occurrence of such transaction, a "," that if a Merger Event causes the Common Stock to be converted into, or exchanged for, the right to receive more than a single type of consideration (determined based in part upon any form of election by holders of the Common Stock), then each Unit of Reference Property will be deemed to be the Weighted Average Consideration), then:
Merger Event
Reference Property
Unit of Reference Property
provided
(A) on or prior to the effective date of such Merger Event, the Company or the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, shall execute with the Trustee a supplemental indenture (which shall comply with the TIA as in force at the date of execution of such supplemental indenture if such supplemental indenture is then required to so comply) providing for the conversion and settlement of the Notes as set forth in this Indenture and for adjustments to the Conversion Rate that shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Article 10. If, in the case of any Merger Event, the Reference Property includes shares of stock or other securities and assets of a corporation other than the successor or purchasing corporation, as the case may be, then such supplemental indenture shall also be executed by such other corporation and shall contain such additional provisions to protect the interests of the Holders as the Board of Directors shall reasonably consider necessary by reason of the foregoing, including to the extent required by the Board of Directors and practicable the provisions providing for the repurchase rights set forth in Article 3 herein;
 
(B) subject to the provisions of Sections 10.01 and 10.07, at and after the effective date of such Merger Event, the right of Holders to convert each $1,000 principal amount of Notes into cash and shares of Common Stock, if any (subject to the Company's right to pay cash in lieu of all or any portion of the shares of Common Stock), shall be changed into a right to convert each $1,000 principal amount of Notes into cash and Units of Reference Property, if any (subject to the Company's right to pay cash in lieu of all or any portion of the Units of Reference Property) so that on or after the effective date of such Merger Event,
(1) references in Section 10.01 to "the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock" shall be deemed to be references to "the Last Reported Sale Price of a Unit of Reference Property";
(2) the Daily VWAP for a VWAP Trading Day (and any functions thereof) will be calculated based on the value of a Unit of Reference Property on such VWAP Trading Day;
(3) instead of delivering shares of Common Stock to converting Holders as part of the Daily Share Amount for a VWAP Trading Day, the Company shall deliver a number of Units of Reference Property equal to the number of shares of Common Stock (subject to the Company's right to pay cash in lieu of all or a portion of the shares of Common Stock that the Company would otherwise have been obligated to deliver to such converting Holder as part of the Daily Share Amount for such VWAP Trading Day); and
(4) instead of delivering an amount of cash in lieu of fractional shares of Common Stock based on the Daily VWAP of the Common Stock, the Company will deliver an amount of cash in lieu of fractional Units of Reference Property, with the amount of cash calculated in accordance with Section 10.03 (except using the Daily VWAP computed in accordance with clause (2) above).
(C) For the purposes of this Section 10.06, if a Merger Event causes the Common Stock to be converted into, or exchanged for, the right to receive more than a single type of consideration (determined based in part upon any form of election by holders of the Common Stock), the "" for such Merger Event means the weighted average, per share of Common Stock, of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of the Common Stock that affirmatively make an election receive in such Merger Event.
Weighted Average Consideration
 
(b) .
Notices
(i) As soon as practicable after it determines the Weighted Average Consideration, the Company shall notify the Holders of the Weighted Average Consideration.
(ii) As soon as practicable upon learning the anticipated or actual effective of a Merger Event, the Company shall deliver written notice to the Holders stating:
(1) a brief description of such Merger Event;
(2) the Conversion Rate in effect on the date the Company delivers such notice;
(3) the anticipated effective date for the Merger Event;
(4) that the Notes will be convertible into Reference Property in lieu of shares of Common Stock on and after the effective date for the Merger Event; and
(5) the composition of a Unit of Reference Property for such Merger Event.
, , that the Company will use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver such written notice at least 35 Scheduled Trading Days immediately prior to the effective date for such Merger Event.
provided
however
(c) If the Company executes a supplemental indenture pursuant to this Section 10.06, as promptly as practicable, the Company shall file with the Trustee an Officer's Certificate briefly describing such Merger Event, the composition of a Unit of Reference Property for such Merger Event, any adjustment to be made with respect thereto and that all conditions precedent to such Merger Event under this Indenture have been complied with. Any failure to deliver such Officer's Certificate shall not affect the legality or validity of such supplemental indenture.
(d) The provisions of this Section 10.06 shall apply successively to successive Merger Events.
Section 10.07
Adjustment to Conversion Rate Upon Certain Transactions.
(a) If a Make-Whole Fundamental Change occurs and a Holder converts a Note "in connection" with such Make-Whole Fundamental Change, the Company will, in the circumstances described in this Section 10.07, increase the Conversion Rate for such Note by the number of additional shares Common Stock (the "") described in this Section 10.07. For the purposes of this Section 10.07, any conversion during the period beginning on, and including, the effective date of a Make-Whole Fundamental Change (the "") and ending on, and including, the Close of Business on
Additional Shares
Make-Whole Fundamental Change Effective Date
 
the earliest of (i) the 35th Scheduled Trading Day immediately following the Make-Whole Fundamental Change Effective Date, (ii) if the Make-Whole Fundamental Change is also a Fundamental Change, the Fundamental Change Purchase Date corresponding to such Fundamental Change, and (iii) the second Scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date, will be deemed to be "in connection with" such Make-Whole Fundamental Change, regardless of any other condition to conversion.
(b) The numbers of Additional Shares by which the Conversion Rate will be increased if a Holder converts a Note in connection with a Make-Whole Fundamental Change will be determined by reference to the table below, based on the Make-Whole Fundamental Change Effective Date for such Make-Whole Fundamental Change and the Stock Price for such Make-Whole Fundamental Change.
(c) The following table sets forth hypothetical Make-Whole Fundamental Change Effective Dates, Stock Prices and the number of Additional Shares by which the Conversion Rate will be increased for a Holder that converts a Note in connection with a Make-Whole Fundamental Change having such Make-Whole Fundamental Change Effective Date and Stock Price. The Stock Prices set forth in the first row of the tables (i.e., the column headers) will be adjusted on each date on which the Conversion Rate is adjusted pursuant to Section 10.05. The adjusted Stock Prices will equal the Stock Prices in effect immediately prior to such adjustment, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the share price adjustment, and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the adjustment. The numbers of Additional Shares set forth in the table below will be adjusted in the same manner and at the same time as the Conversion Rate.
 
If the exact Stock Price and Make-Whole Fundamental Change Effective Date for a Make-Whole Fundamental Change are not set forth in the table above, then:
(A) if the Stock Price is between two prices listed in the table or the Make-Whole Fundamental Change Effective Date is between two dates listed in the table, then the number of Additional Shares by which the Conversion Rate will be increased for a Holder that converts its Notes in connection with such Make-Whole Fundamental Change will be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the numbers of Additional Shares set forth for the higher and lower listed prices in the table and the two Make-Whole Fundamental Change Effective Dates in the table, based on a 365-day year;
 
(B) if the Stock Price is greater than $250.00, subject to adjustment in the same manner and at the same time as the Stock Prices listed in the table, the Conversion Rate will not be adjusted; and
(C) if the Stock Price is less than $68.29, subject to adjustment in the same manner and at the same time as the Stock Prices listed in the table, the Conversion Rate will not be adjusted.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will the Conversion Rate exceed 14.6434, subject to adjustment in the same manner and at the same time as the Conversion Rate under Section 10.05
(d) If a Holder converts a Note in connection with a Make-Whole Fundamental Change, the Company will settle such conversion of such Note in accordance with Section 10.03; ,, that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 10.03, if a Holder converts a Note in connection with a Make-Whole Fundamental Change described in clause (2) of the definition Fundamental Change in which the holders of the Common Stock receive only cash in consideration for their shares of Common Stock, the Company will settle such conversion by delivering to such Holder, on the third Business Day immediately following the Conversion Date for such Note, an amount of cash, for each $1,000 principal amount of such Note converted, equal to the product of (i) the Conversion Rate on the Conversion Date for such Note (including any Additional Shares added to such Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 10.07) and (ii) the Stock Price.
provided
however
Section 10.08
Miscellaneous.
(a) . Any determination and/or calculation that the Company or the Board of Directors must make pursuant to this Article 10 is conclusive, absent manifest error.
Company Determination Final
(b) . The Trustee has no duty to determine when an adjustment under this Article 10 should be made, how it should be made or what it should be. The Trustee shall not be accountable for and makes no representation as to the validity or value of any securities or assets issued upon conversion of Notes. The Trustee shall not be responsible for the Company's failure to comply with this Article 10. Each Conversion Agent shall have the same protection under this Section 10.08 as the Trustee.
Trustee's Disclaimer
 
Section 11.01 The Company shall pay interest on the Notes at a rate of 0.75% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year (each, an "") or, if any such day is not a Business Day, the immediately following Business Day, commencing July 15, 2010. Interest on a Note shall be paid to the Holder of such Note at the Close of Business on January 1 or July 1 (each, a ""), as the case may be, immediately preceding the related Interest Payment Date, and shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. In the event of the maturity, conversion, or repurchase of a Note by the Company at the option of the Holder, interest shall cease to accrue on such Note. If the Conversion Date for a Note occurs after a Record Date but on or before the corresponding Interest Payment Date, the interest payable on such Interest Payment Date will be paid to the Holder of such Note on such Record Date notwithstanding the conversion of such Note.
Payment of Interest.
Interest Payment Date
Record Date
Section 11.02 Any installment of interest that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date (""), shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holders in whose names the Notes were registered on the Record Date applicable to such installment of interest. Defaulted Interest (including any interest on such Defaulted Interest) may be paid by the Company, at its election, as provided in Sections 11.02(a) or 11.02(b).
Defaulted Interest.
Defaulted Interest
(a) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest (including any interest on such Defaulted Interest) to the Holders in whose names the Notes are registered at the Close of Business on a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest (a ""), which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Holders entitled to such Defaulted Interest as provided in this Section 11.02(a). Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be not more than 15 calendar days and not less than ten calendar days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than ten calendar days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to each Holder at such Holder's address as it appears in the registration books of the Registrar, not less than ten calendar days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Holders in whose names the Notes are registered at the Close of Business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to Section 11.02(b).
Special Record Date
 
(b) Alternatively, the Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest (including any interest on such Defaulted Interest) in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Section 11.02(b), such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
Section 11.03 . Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Article 11 and, to the extent applicable, Sections 2.06 and 2.07, each Note delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Note shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Note.
Interest Rights Preserved
Section 12.01 . If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies, or conflicts with another provision that is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the required provision shall control.
Trust Indenture Act Controls
Section 12.02 . Any request, demand, authorization, notice, waiver, consent or communication shall be in writing and delivered in Person or mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows or transmitted by facsimile transmission or other similar means of unsecured electronic methods to the following:
Notices
if to the Company:
salesforce.com, inc.
The Landmark @ One Market, Suite 300
San Francisco, California 94105
Facsimile: (415) 901-7040
Attn: General Counsel
if to the Trustee, Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent:
U.S. Bank National Association
633 West 5
th
Street, 24
th
Floor
Los Angeles, California 90071
Facsimile: (213) 615-6197
Attn: Paula M. Oswald, Corporate Trust Services
(salesforce.com 0.75%)
Convertible Senior Notes due 2015
The Company or the Trustee, by notice given to the other in the manner provided above, may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
Any notice or communication given to a Holder shall be mailed to the Holder, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, at the Holder's address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar and shall be deemed given on the date of such mailing.
Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not received by the addressee.
If the Company mails a notice or communication to the Holders, it shall, at the same time, mail a copy to the Trustee and each of the Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent.
If the Company is required under this Indenture to give a notice to the Holders, in lieu of delivering such notice to the Holders, the Company may deliver such notice to the Trustee and cause the Trustee to have delivered such notice to the Holders on or prior to the date on which the Company would otherwise have been required to deliver such notice to the Holders. In such a case, the Company shall also cause the Trustee to mail a copy of the notice to each of the Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent at the same time it mails the notice to the Holders.
Section 12.03 . Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Notes. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar, the Paying Agent, the Conversion Agent and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA Section 312(c).
Communication by Holders with Other Holders
Section 12.04 . Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
(a) an Officer's Certificate stating that, in the judgment of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and
(b) an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the judgment of such counsel, all such conditions precedent relating to the proposed action (to the extent of legal conclusions) have been complied with.
Section 12.05 . Each Officer's Certificate or Opinion of Counsel with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition (except for such Officer's Certificate required to be delivered pursuant to Section 4.03) provided for in this Indenture shall include:
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
(a) a statement that each Person making such Officer's Certificate or Opinion of Counsel has read such covenant or condition;
(b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or judgments contained in such Officer's Certificate or Opinion of Counsel are based;
 
(c) a statement that, in the judgment of each such Person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such Person to express an informed judgment as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(d) a statement that, in the judgment of such Person, such covenant or condition has been complied with.
Section 12.06 . In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause
Section 12.07 . The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Holders.
Rules by Trustee
Section 12.08 . THE INDENTURE AND EACH NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO ANY APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
Governing Law
Section 12.09 . A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Holder shall waive and release all such liability. The waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
Section 12.10 .
Calculations
The Company will be responsible for making all calculations called for under the Notes. These calculations include, but are not limited to, determinations of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock, Daily VWAPs, Daily Conversion Values, Daily Settlement Amounts, accrued interest payable on the Notes and the Conversion Rate in effect on any Conversion Date.
The Company will make these calculations in good faith and, absent manifest error, the calculations will be final and binding on Holders. The Company will provide to each of the Trustee and the Conversion Agent a schedule of its calculations, and each of the Trustee and Conversion Agent is entitled to rely upon the accuracy of such calculations without independent verification. The Trustee will forward the Company's calculations to any Holder upon the request of such Holder.
All calculations shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share, as the case may be.
Section 12.11 . All agreements of the Company, the Trustee, the Registrar, the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent in this Indenture and the Notes shall bind their respective successors.
Successors
 
Section 12.12 . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy is enough to prove this Indenture.
Multiple Originals
Section 12.13 . The table of contents and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not intended to be considered a part hereof and shall not modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
Table of Contents; Headings
Section 12.14 . The Trustee, Registrar, Paying Agent, and Conversion Agent shall not incur any liability for not performing any act or fulfilling any duty, obligation or responsibility hereunder by reason of any occurrence beyond the control of such person (including but not limited to any act or provision of any present or future law or regulation or governmental authority, any act of God or war, civil unrest, local or national disturbance or disaster, any act of terrorism, or the unavailability of the Federal Reserve Bank wire or facsimile or other wire or communication facility).
Force Majeure
Section 12.15 . The Company (i) agrees that any suit, action or proceeding against it arising out of or relating to this Indenture or the Notes, as the case may be, may be instituted in any U.S. federal court with applicable subject matter jurisdiction sitting in The City of New York; (ii) waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding, and any claim that any suit, action or proceeding in such a court has been brought in an inconvenient forum; and (iii) submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any suit, action or proceeding.
Submission to Jurisdiction
Section 12.16 . In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Fundamental Change Purchase Date, Conversion Date or Maturity Date is not a Business Day, then any action to be taken on such date need not be taken on such date, but may be taken on the immediately following Business Day with the same force and effect as if taken on such date, and no interest shall accrue for the period from and after such date.
Legal Holidays
Section 12.17 . Except as provided in Section 7.07, nothing in this Indenture or in the Notes, expressed or implied, shall be construed to constitute a security interest under the Uniform Commercial Code or similar legislation, as now or hereafter enacted and in effect, in any jurisdiction.
No Security Interest Created
Section 12.18. Nothing in this Indenture or in the Notes, expressed or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, any Paying Agent, any Conversion Agent, any authenticating agent, any Registrar an their successors hereunder or the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
Benefits of Indenture
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, salesforce.com, inc. has caused this Indenture to be duly executed as a deed the day and year first before written.
salesforce.com, inc.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized, has executed this Indenture as of the date first above written.
 
EXHIBIT A
FORM OF NOTE
[
Include the following legend for Global Notes only (the "
Global Securities Legend
"):
]
THIS IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, WHICH MAY BE TREATED BY THE COMPANY, THE TRUSTEE AND ANY AGENT THEREOF AS OWNER AND HOLDER OF THIS CONVERTIBLE NOTE FOR ALL PURPOSES.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL NOTE SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL NOTE SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN ARTICLE TWO OF THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
[
Include the following legend on all Notes that are Restricted Notes (the "
Restricted Securities Legend
"):
]
THE SALE OF THIS NOTE HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND, ACCORDINGLY, PRIOR TO THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE (AS DEFINED BELOW), THIS NOTE AND ANY COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS NOTE (AND ANY BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN OR THEREIN) MAY NOT BE OFFERED, RESOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, EXCEPT:
 
 
 
THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE" MEANS THE DATE: (A) THAT IS AT LEAST ONE YEAR AFTER THE LAST DATE OF ORIGINAL ISSUANCE OF THE NOTES; AND (B) ON WHICH THE COMPANY HAS INSTRUCTED THE TRUSTEE THAT THIS LEGEND WILL NO LONGER APPLY IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROCEDURES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
PRIOR TO ANY TRANSFER PURSUANT TO THE FOREGOING CLAUSE (D), THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH CERTIFICATIONS, LEGAL OPINIONS OR OTHER INFORMATION AS THEY MAY REASONABLY REQUIRE AND MAY RELY UPON TO CONFIRM THAT SUCH TRANSFER IS BEING MADE PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM, OR IN A TRANSACTION NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
NO AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY MAY PURCHASE OR OTHERWISE ACQUIRE NOTES.
 
No.:
[            ]
CUSIP:            794 66L AA2
ISIN:                US 794 66L AA2
salesforce.com, inc., a Delaware corporation, promises to pay to include "" or registered assigns, the principal amount of $ on January 15, 2015 (the "").
[            ] [
Cede & Co.
for Global Note
]
[            ]
Maturity Date
Interest Payment Dates: January 15 and July 15.
Record Dates: January 1 and July 1.
Additional provisions of this Note are set forth on the other side of this Note.
 
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee, certifies that this is one of the Notes referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of Notes of the Company, designated as its 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 (the ""), all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to an Indenture dated as of January 19, 2010 (the ""), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association (the ""), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Indenture.
Notes
Indenture
Trustee
 
This Note shall bear cash interest at the rate of 0.75% per annum. Interest on this Note shall accrue from the Issue Date or from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided for. Interest shall be payable semiannually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on July 15, 2010, to the Holder of record of this Note as of the Close of Business on the January 1 or July 1 immediately preceding each Interest Payment Date. Each payment of cash interest on this Note shall include interest accrued for the period commencing on and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date (or, if none, the Issue Date) through the day before the applicable Interest Payment Date. Any payment required to be made on any day that is not a Business Day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no interest or other amount will be paid as a result of any such postponement. Interest shall be calculated using a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months. Interest shall cease to accrue on this Note upon its Maturity Date, conversion or repurchase by the Company at the option of the Holder upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change.
Subject to certain exceptions, interest on Notes converted after a Record Date, but on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, will be paid to the Holder of the Notes on the Record Date, but upon conversion, the Holder must pay the Company the interest which has accrued and will be paid by the Company on such Interest Payment Date. No such payment need be made (1) if the Company has specified a Fundamental Change Purchase Date that is after a Record Date and on or prior to the next Interest Payment Date; (2) to the extent of overdue interest, if any overdue interest exists on the Conversion Date with respect to such Notes; or (3) if such Notes are surrendered for conversion after the Close of Business on the Record Date immediately preceding the Maturity Date.
 
The Company shall promptly make all payments in respect of the Notes on the dates and in the manner provided herein and in the Indenture. Holders must surrender Notes to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments. The Company will pay principal, accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, or payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price in money of the United States that at the time of payment is
 
legal tender for payment of public and private debts. The Company will make all payments in respect of a Global Note registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee to the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account specified by such Holder. If an Interest Payment Date is a date other than a Business Day, payment may be made at that place on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day and no interest shall accrue for the intervening period.
 
Initially, U.S. Bank National Association, will act as the Trustee, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or Registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee; , , that the Company will maintain at least one Paying Agent in the United States of America, which shall initially be an office or agency of the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or Registrar.
provided
however
 
The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the TIA. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of those terms.
 
(a) At the option of the Holder, and subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change, each Holder will have the right, at its option, to require the Company to purchase for cash all of its Notes, or any portion of its Notes in principal amount equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of thereof, at a Fundamental Change Purchase Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of Notes to be purchased plus accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, to but excluding, the Fundamental Change Purchase Date. To exercise its purchase right, a Holder must deliver, on or before the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, written notice to the Trustee of such Holder's exercise of its purchase right, together with the Notes with respect to which the right is being exercised. Subject to such Holder's satisfaction of certain requirements in the Indenture, the Company is required to purchase the Notes on a date specified by the Company that is no fewer than 20 calendar days and no more than 35 calendar days after the date on which the Company delivers notice of the Fundamental Change, which date shall be no more than 20 calendar days after the effective date of the Fundamental Change.
(b) Holders have the right to withdraw a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice delivered pursuant to Paragraph 5(a) above by delivering to the Paying Agent, in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, a written notice of withdrawal at any time prior to the Close of Business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Fundamental Change Purchase Date. If cash sufficient to pay the Fundamental Change Purchase Price of all Notes or portions thereof to be repurchased as of the Fundamental Change Purchase Date is deposited with the
 
Paying Agent on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, will cease to accrue on such Notes (or portions thereof) immediately after such Fundamental Change Purchase Date, and the Holder thereof shall have no other rights as such other than the right to receive the Fundamental Change Purchase Price upon surrender of such Note.
 
(a) Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of the Indenture (including, without limitation, the conditions to conversion of this Note set forth in Section 10.01 of the Indenture), a Holder hereof has the right, at such Holder's option, to convert the principal amount hereof or any portion of such principal amount that is $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof, subject to Sections 10.01 and 10.03 of the Indenture, into cash and shares of Common Stock, if any (subject to the Company's right to deliver cash in lieu of all or a portion of such shares of Common Stock), at the Conversion Rate in effect on the Conversion Date. The Conversion Rate shall initially equal 11.7147 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 and is subject to adjustment as described in the Indenture.
(b) To surrender a Note for conversion, a Holder must (1) complete and manually sign the irrevocable conversion notice below or as provided by the Conversion Agent (or complete and manually sign a facsimile of such notice) and deliver such notice to the Conversion Agent; (2) surrender the Note to the Conversion Agent (if the Note is a Certificated Note); (3) if required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents; (4) if required pay all transfer or similar taxes; and (5) if required, pay funds under Sections 10.02(e) and 10.02(f) of the Indenture. If a Holder holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note, such Holder must also comply with any procedure of DTC applicable to the conversion of a beneficial interest in such Global Note.
 
The Notes are in fully registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 of principal amount and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Registrar need not transfer or exchange any Notes in respect of which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn (except, in the case of a Note to be repurchased in part, the portion of the Note not to be repurchased).
 
Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture or the Notes may be amended or supplemented with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding by the Company and the Trustee. The Company and the Trustee may also amend or supplement the Indenture or the Notes without the consent of any Holder to: (A) cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency in the Indenture or in the Notes; (B) conform the terms of the Indenture or the Notes to the "Description of Notes"
 
section of the Offering Memorandum; (C) make provisions with respect to the conversion rights of the Holders in accordance with Section 10.06 of the Indenture; (D) provide for the assumption by a successor corporation of the Company's obligations under the Indenture as described in Article 5 of the Indenture; (E) add guarantees with respect to the Notes; (F) secure the Notes; (G) add to the Company's covenants for the benefit of the Holders or surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company; (H) make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder; (I) appoint a successor Trustee with respect to the Notes; (J) comply with the rules of any applicable securities depositary, including DTC; or (K) comply with any requirements of the SEC in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA.
 
Each of the following is an Event of Default under the Indenture: (A) the Company defaults in the payment of interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, on any Note when the same becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days; (B) the Company defaults in the payment of principal of any Note when the same becomes due and payable at the Maturity Date, upon declaration of acceleration, upon any Fundamental Change Purchase Date or otherwise; (C) the failure by the Company to deliver the consideration due upon the conversion of any Notes and such failure continues for a period of five Business Days; (D) the failure by the Company to deliver a Fundamental Change Notice as required by Section 3.03 of the Indenture or to deliver a Specified Corporate Transaction Notice as required by Section 10.01(a)(iv) of the Indenture; (E) the failure by the Company to comply with its obligations under Article 5 of the Indenture; (F) the default in the performance of or the breach of any other covenant or agreement of the Company in the Indenture with respect to the Notes (other than a covenant or agreement in respect of which a default or breach is specifically addressed in Sections 6.01(a)(i) through 6.01(a)(v) of the Indenture) and such default or breach continues for a period of 60 consecutive days after written notice of such default is delivered to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of 25% or more in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding; (G) the occurrence of an event of default as defined under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any indebtedness of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary for money borrowed, whether such indebtedness exists as of the Issue Date or is later created, if that event of default: (i) constitutes the failure to pay when due (whether at express maturity, upon acceleration as a result of an event of default or otherwise) indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount in excess of $50,000,000, and (ii) such event of default continues for a period of 30 days after written notice thereof is delivered to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of 25% or more of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding without such Default having been cured or waived, such acceleration having been rescinded or annulled (if applicable) and such indebtedness not having been paid or discharged; (H) the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law: (i) commences a voluntary case; (ii) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case; (iii) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property; (iv) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or (v) takes any comparable action under any foreign laws relating to insolvency; or (I) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that: (i) is for relief against the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries in an involuntary case; (ii) appoints a Custodian of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or for any substantial part of its or any of its
 
Significant Subsidiaries' property; (iii) orders the winding up or liquidation of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries; or (iv) grants any similar relief under any foreign laws; and, in each such case, the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days.
The Indenture provides that if an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(a)(viii) or 6.01(a)(ix) of the Indenture with respect to the Company) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee by notice to the Company or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding by notice to the Company and the Trustee, may declare the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, on the Notes to be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(a)(viii) or 6.01(a)(ix) of the Indenture with respect to the Company (and not solely with respect to one or more of its Significant Subsidiaries), occurs and is continuing, the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes shall, automatically and without any action by the Trustee or any Holder, become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holders. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding, by notice to the Trustee and the Company, and without notice to any other Holder, may rescind any declaration of acceleration if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default have been cured or waived other than nonpayment of the principal amount or accrued but unpaid interest (including Additional Interest and Special Interest), if any, that have become due solely as a result of acceleration. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereto.
 
The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of this Note for all purposes.
 
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Notes that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property law. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors, unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person.
 
Subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee.
 
The Company will be responsible for making all calculations called for under the Notes. These calculations include, but are not limited to, determinations of the Last Reported Sale
 
Prices of Common Stock, Daily VWAPs, Daily Conversion Values, Daily Settlement Amounts, any accrued interest payable on the Notes and the Conversion Rate in effect on any Conversion Date.
The Company will make these calculations in good faith and, absent manifest error, the calculations will be final and binding on Holders of the Notes. The Company will provide to each of the Trustee and Conversion Agent schedule of its calculations, and each of the Trustee and Conversion Agent is entitled to rely upon the accuracy of such calculations without independent verification. The Trustee will forward the Company's calculations to any Holder of the Notes upon the request of such Holder.
 
A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Holder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
 
This Note shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the Trustee's certificate of authentication on the other side of this Note.
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
 
THE INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO ANY APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
 
Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Note Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
 
Holders shall be entitled to payments of Additional Interest or Special Interest to the extent set forth in the Indenture.
If the Company is required to pay Additional Interest or Special Interest to Holders, the Company shall provide a direction or order in the form of a written notice to the Trustee (and if the Trustee is not the Paying Agent, to the Paying Agent) of the Company's obligation to pay such Additional Interest or Special Interest no later than three Business Days prior to the date on which any such Additional Interest or Special Interest is scheduled to be paid. Such notice shall set forth the amount of Additional Interest or Special Interest to be paid by the Company on such payment date and direct the Trustee (or, if the Trustee is not the Paying Agent, to the Paying Agent) to make payment to the extent it receives funds from the Company to do so. The Trustee shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder to determine whether the Additional Interest or Special Interest is payable, or with respect to the nature, extent, or calculation of the amount of the Additional Interest or Special Interest owed, or with respect to the method employed in such calculation of the Additional Interest or Special Interest.
The Company will furnish to any Holder, upon written request and without charge, a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Note in larger type. Requests may be made to:
salesforce.com, inc.
The Landmark @ One Market, Suite 300
San Francisco, California 94105
Attn: General Counsel
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Note
 
 
 
 
(Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax ID no.)
 
 
 
 
(Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code)
and irrevocably appoint                             agent to transfer this Note on the books of the
Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
To convert this Note into shares of the Common Stock of the Company, check the box
To convert only part of this Note, state the principal amount to be converted (which must be $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000):
If you want the stock certificate made out in another Person's name fill in the form below:
 
 
 
 
(Insert the other Person's soc. sec. or tax ID no.)
 
 
 
 
(Print or type other Person's name, address and zip code)
 
 
 
U.S. Bank National Association
633 West 5
th
Street, 24
th
Floor
Los Angeles, California 90071
Facsimile: (213) 615-6197
Attn: Paula M. Oswald, Corporate Trust Services
(salesforce.com 0.75%)
Convertible Senior Notes due 2015
The undersigned registered owner of this Note hereby acknowledges receipt of a notice from salesforce.com, inc. (the "") as to the occurrence of a Fundamental Change with respect to the Company and specifying the Fundamental Change Purchase Date and requests and instructs the Company to pay to the registered holder hereof in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture referred to in this Note (1) the entire principal amount of this Note, or the portion thereof (that is equal to $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple thereof) below designated, and (2) if such Fundamental Change Purchase Date does not fall during the period after a Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, thereon to, but excluding, such Fundamental Change Purchase Date.
Company
Certificate Number:
Dated:  
                                                                                          
 
 
[]
Include for Global Note
 
 
EXHIBIT B
In connection with any transfer of any of the Notes within the period prior to the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") (or any successor provision), the undersigned registered owner of this Note hereby certifies with respect to $             principal amount of the above-captioned Notes presented or surrendered on the date hereof (the "") for registration of transfer, or for exchange or conversion where the securities issuable upon such exchange or conversion are to be registered in a name other than that of the undersigned registered owner (each such transaction being a ""), that such transfer complies with the restrictive legend set forth on the face of the Surrendered Notes for the reason checked below:
Securities Act
Surrendered Notes
transfer
A transfer of the Surrendered Notes is made to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; or
The transfer of the Surrendered Notes complies with Rule 144A under the Securities Act; or
The transfer of the Surrendered Notes is pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act; or
The transfer of the Surrendered Notes is pursuant to another available exemption from the registration requirement of the Securities Act.
Unless the box below is checked, the undersigned confirms that, to the undersigned's knowledge, such Notes are not being transferred to an "affiliate" of the Company as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act (an "").
Affiliate
The transferee is an Affiliate of the Company.
Date:  
                                                                 
By:  
                                    
 
(If the registered owner is a corporation, partnership or fiduciary, the title of the Person signing on behalf of such registered owner must be stated.)
 
 
EXHIBIT C
THE SALE OF THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND ACCORDINGLY, PRIOR TO THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE (AS DEFINED BELOW), THIS SECURITY (AND ANY BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN) MAY NOT BE OFFERED, RESOLD, OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, EXCEPT:
 
 
 
THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE" MEANS THE DATE: (A) THAT IS AT LEAST ONE YEAR AFTER THE LAST DATE OF ORIGINAL ISSUANCE OF THE COMPANY'S 0.75% CONVERTIBLE SENIOR NOTES DUE 2015; AND (B) ON WHICH THE COMPANY HAS INSTRUCTED THE TRANSFER AGENT THAT THIS LEGEND WILL NO LONGER APPLY, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROCEDURES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE FOR THE NOTES.
PRIOR TO ANY TRANSFER PURSUANT TO THE FOREGOING CLAUSE (C), THE COMPANY AND THE COMPANY'S TRANSFER AGENT RESERVE THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH CERTIFICATIONS, LEGAL OPINIONS OR OTHER INFORMATION AS THEY MAY REASONABLY REQUIRE AND MAY RELY UPON TO CONFIRM THAT SUCH TRANSFER IS BEING MADE PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM, OR IN A TRANSACTION NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT.
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
Dated: January 12, 2010
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
January 12, 2010
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
as Representative of the several Initial Purchasers
One Bryant Park
New York, New York 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Salesforce.com, inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), confirms its agreement with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("Merrill Lynch") and each of the other Initial Purchasers named in Schedule A hereto (collectively, the "Initial Purchasers," which term shall also include any initial purchaser substituted as hereinafter provided in Section 10 hereof), for whom Merrill Lynch is acting as representative (in such capacity, the "Representative"), with respect to (i) the sale by the Company and the purchase by the Initial Purchasers, acting severally and not jointly, of the respective principal amounts set forth in said Schedule A of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 (the "Initial Securities") and (ii) the grant by the Company to the Initial Purchasers, acting severally and not jointly, of the option to purchase all or any part of an additional $75,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 (the "Option Securities" and, together with the Initial Securities, the "Securities") to cover overallotments. The Securities are to be issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of January 19, 2010 (the "Indenture") between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee").
The Company understands that the Initial Purchasers propose to make an offering of the Securities on the terms and in the manner set forth herein and agrees that the Initial Purchasers may resell, subject to the conditions set forth herein, all or a portion of the Securities to purchasers ("Subsequent Purchasers") at any time after this Agreement has been executed and delivered. The Securities are to be offered and sold through the Initial Purchasers without being registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"), in reliance upon exemptions therefrom. Pursuant to the terms of the Securities and the Indenture, investors that acquire Securities may only resell or otherwise transfer such Securities if such Securities are hereafter registered under the 1933 Act or if an exemption from the registration requirements of the 1933 Act is available (including the exemption afforded by Rule 144A ("Rule 144A") of the rules and regulations promulgated under the 1933 Act by the Securities and Exchange Sub (the "Commission")).
The Company has prepared and delivered to each Initial Purchaser copies of a preliminary offering memorandum dated as of January 11, 2010 (the "Preliminary Offering Memorandum") and has prepared and will deliver to each Initial Purchaser, on the date hereof or the next succeeding day,
EXECUTION COPY
 
copies of a final offering memorandum January 12, 2010 (the "Final Offering Memorandum"), each for use by such Initial Purchaser in connection with its solicitation of purchases of, or offering of, the Securities. "Offering Memorandum" means, with respect to any date or time referred to in this Agreement, the most recent offering memorandum (whether the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Final Offering Memorandum, or any amendment or supplement to either such document), including and any documents incorporated therein by reference, which has been prepared and delivered by the Company to the Initial Purchasers in connection with their solicitation of purchases of, or offering of, the Securities. "General Disclosure Package" means the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and any Issuer Written Information (as defined below) issued at or prior to 7:00 A.M., New York City time, on January 12, 2010 or such other time as agreed by the Company and Merrill Lynch (such date and time, the "Applicable Time"). The Company will prepare a final term sheet (the "Final Term Sheet"), in the form set forth in Schedule C hereto, reflecting the final terms of the Securities, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representative. "Issuer Written Information" means (i) any writing intended for general distribution to investors as evidenced by its being specified in Schedule B hereto, (ii) any "road show" that is a "written communication" within the meaning of the 1933 Act and (iii) the Final Term Sheet.
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" in the Offering Memorandum (or other references of like import) shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which are incorporated by reference in the Offering Memorandum; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Offering Memorandum shall be deemed to mean and include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act") which is incorporated by reference in the Offering Memorandum.
SECTION 1. .
Representations and Warranties
(a) . The Company represents and warrants to each Initial Purchaser as of the date hereof, the Applicable Time, the Closing Time and any Date of Delivery (as defined below), and agrees with each Initial Purchaser, as follows:
Representations and Warranties by the Company
(i) . The Company hereby confirms that it has authorized the use of the General Disclosure Package, including the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Final Term Sheet, and the Final Offering Memorandum in connection with the offer and sale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers. The Securities are eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144A and will not be, at Closing Time, of the same class as securities listed on a national securities exchange registered under Section 6 of the 1934 Act, or quoted in a U.S. automated interdealer quotation system.
General Disclosure Package; Rule 144A Eligibility
(ii) . Subject to compliance by the Initial Purchasers with the representations and warranties of the Initial Purchasers and the procedures set forth in Section 6 hereof, it is not necessary in connection with the offer, sale and delivery of the offered Securities to the Initial Purchasers and to each Subsequent Purchaser in the manner contemplated by this Agreement and the Offering Memorandum to register the Securities under the 1933 Act or to qualify the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "1939 Act"). None of the Company, its affiliates (as such term is defined in Rule 501(b) under the 1933 Act, an "Affiliate") or any person acting on its or any of their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers, as to whom the Company makes no representation) has engaged, in connection with the offering of the offered Securities, in any form of general solicitation or general advertising within the meaning of Rule 502(c) under the 1933 Act.
No Registration Required; No General Solicitation
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
(iii) . At of the Applicable Time, neither (A) the General Disclosure Package nor (B) any Issuer Written Information, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The Final Offering Memorandum, as of its date, at the Closing Time or at any Date of Delivery, did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Accurate Disclosure
The representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the General Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Initial Purchaser through Merrill Lynch expressly for use therein. For purposes of this Agreement, the only information so furnished shall be (a) the information in the last sentence of the tenth paragraph immediately following the table of contents in the Offering Memorandum, (b) the information in the first sentence of each of the third and fourth paragraphs under the heading "SummaryThe OfferingConvertible Note Hedge and Warrant Transactions" in the Offering Memorandum, (c) the information in the first sentence of each of the third and fourth paragraphs under the heading "Risk Factors Risks Relating to this Offering and Our Common StockThe convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the trading price of the notes and the market price of our common stock" in the Offering Memorandum, (d) the information in the first sentence of the fourth paragraph under the heading "Description of Convertible Note Hedge and Warrant Transactions" in the Offering Memorandum, (e) the information in the first paragraph under the heading "Plan of       DistributionCommissions and Discounts" in the Offering Memorandum, (f) the information in the second sentence in the paragraph under the heading "Plan of DistributionNew Issue of Notes" in the Offering Memorandum, (g) the information in the first paragraph under the heading "Plan of DistributionPrice Stabilization, Short Positions" in the Offering Memorandum and (h) the second paragraph and the first sentence of the penultimate paragraph under the heading "Plan of DistributionConvertible Note Hedge and Warrant Transactions" in the Offering Memorandum (collectively, the "Initial Purchaser Information").
(iv) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Offering Memorandum, at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will comply, as the case may be, in all material respects with the requirements of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission under the 1934 Act (the "1934 Act Regulations").
Incorporation of Documents by Reference
(v) . The accountants who certified the financial statements and supporting schedules included or incorporated by reference in the Offering Memorandum are independent public accountants as required by the 1933 Act, the 1933 Act Regulations, the 1934 Act, the 1934 Act Regulations and the Public Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants
(vi) . The financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, together with the related schedules and notes, present fairly in all material respects the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries at the dates indicated and the statement of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries for the periods specified; said financial statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved. The supporting schedules, if any, present fairly in all material respects the information
Financial Statements
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
required to be stated therein and in accordance with GAAP. The summary consolidated financial information included in the Offering Memorandum present fairly in all material respects the information shown therein and have been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements included therein.
(vii) . Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the General Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum, (A) there has been no material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective material adverse change, to the financial condition, results of operations or business affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business (a "Material Adverse Effect"), (B) there have been no transactions entered into by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, other than those in the ordinary course of business, which are material with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, and (C) there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock.
No Material Adverse Change in Business
(viii) . The Company has been duly organized and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum and to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement; and the Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each other jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure so to qualify or to be in good standing would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Good Standing of the Company
(ix) . None of the subsidiaries of the Company constitute a "significant subsidiary" (as such term is defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X as promulgated under the 1934 Regulations).
Significant Subsidiaries
(x) . The shares of capital stock of the Company that are authorized, issued and outstanding are as set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum in the column entitled "Actual" under the caption "Capitalization" (except for subsequent issuances, if any, pursuant to this Agreement, pursuant to reservations, agreements or employee benefit plans referred to in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum or pursuant to the exercise of convertible securities or options referred to in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum)
Capitalization
(xi) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement
(xii) . The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed and delivered by the Company and the Trustee, will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting enforcement of creditors' rights generally and except as enforcement thereof is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Authorization of the Indenture
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
(xiii) . The Securities have been duly authorized and, at the Closing Time, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated, issued and delivered in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor as provided in this Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting enforcement of creditors' rights generally and except as enforcement thereof is subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), and will be in the form contemplated by, and entitled to the benefits of, the Indenture. The shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities have been duly authorized and reserved for issuance upon such conversion by all necessary corporate action and such shares, when issued upon such conversion, will be validly issued and will be fully paid and non-assessable; and the issuance of such shares upon such conversion will not be subject to the preemptive or other similar rights of any securityholder of the Company.
Authorization of the Securities and the Common Stock
(xiv) . There are no persons with registration rights or other similar rights to have any securities registered for sale by the Company under the 1933 Act.
Registration Rights
(xv) . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is (A) in violation of its charter, by-laws or similar organizational document, (B) in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the it is a party or by which it may be bound or to which any of its properties or assets is subject (collectively, "Agreements and Instruments"), except for such defaults that would not, singly or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, or (C) in violation of any law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ or decree of any arbitrator, court, governmental body, regulatory body, administrative agency or other authority, body or agency having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties, assets or operations (each, a "Governmental Entity"), except for such violations that would not, singly or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein and in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum (including the issuance and sale of the Securities) and compliance by the Company with its obligations hereunder have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and do not and will not, whether with or without the giving of notice or passage of time or both, conflict with or constitute a breach of, or default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any properties or assets of the Company or any subsidiary pursuant to, the Agreements and Instruments, or result in any violation of any law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ or decree of any Governmental Entity (except for such conflicts, breaches, defaults or liens, charges or encumbrances, or violations that would not, singly or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect), nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the charter, by-laws or similar organizational document of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Absence of Violations, Defaults and Conflicts
(xvi) . No material labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is imminent, and the Company is not aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or any subsidiary's principal suppliers, manufacturers, customers or contractors, which, in either case, would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Labor Dispute
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
(xvii) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, there is no action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation before or brought by any Governmental Entity now pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened, against the Company or any of its subsidiaries, which would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, or which might materially and adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated in this Agreement or the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder; and the aggregate of all pending legal or governmental proceedings to which the Company or any such subsidiary is a party or of which any of their respective properties or assets is the subject which are not described in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, including ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Proceedings
(xviii) . No filing with, or authorization, approval, consent, license, order, registration, qualification or decree of, any Governmental Entity is necessary or required for the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder, in connection with the offering, issuance or sale of the Securities hereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or for the due execution, delivery and performance of the Indenture, except such as have been already obtained or as may be required under the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange.
Absence of Further Requirements
(xix) . The Company and its subsidiaries possess such permits, licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations (collectively, "Governmental Licenses") issued by the appropriate Governmental Entities necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, except where the failure so to possess would not, singly or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. The Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms and conditions of all Governmental Licenses, except where the failure so to comply would not, singly or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. All of the Governmental Licenses are valid and in full force and effect, except when the invalidity of such Governmental Licenses or the failure of such Governmental Licenses to be in full force and effect would not, singly or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any Governmental Licenses which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Licenses and Permits
(xx) . Neither the Company nor the any of its subsidiaries owns any real property. All of the real and personal property leases and subleases material to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise, and under which the Company or any of its subsidiaries holds properties described in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, are in full force and effect, and neither the Company nor any such subsidiary has received any notice of any material claim of any sort that has been asserted by anyone adverse to the rights of the Company or any subsidiary under any of the leases or subleases mentioned above, or materially and adversely affecting the rights of the Company or such subsidiary to the continued possession of the leased or subleased premises under any such lease or sublease.
Title to Property
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
(xxi) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum, the Company and its subsidiaries own or possess rights to all patents, inventions, works of authorship, copyrights, know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems, methods or procedures), trademarks, service marks, trade names or other intellectual property and intellectual property rights (collectively, "Intellectual Property") that are material to the business as now operated by them and as described in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum. The Company and its subsidiaries have taken reasonable steps to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of their material trade secrets, including entering into contracts that generally require licensees, contractors and other third persons with access to such trade secrets to keep such trade secrets confidential, and to the knowledge of the Company, there have been no breaches of any such contracts that are material to the Company. To the knowledge of the Company, there is no infringement by third parties of any Intellectual Property owned by the Company. There is no action, suit, proceeding or claim by a third party pending, or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened in writing, that (i) challenges the Company's or any subsidiary's rights in or to any Intellectual Property owned by the Company or such subsidiary or (ii) claims that the Company or any subsidiary infringes or otherwise violates any Intellectual Property of any person or entity, and the Company is unaware of any other fact which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim, in each case that would reasonably be expected to, singly or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. The Company has taken all actions that are reasonably necessary to acquire, maintain and protect the Intellectual Property of the Company and each subsidiary in a manner consistent with prudent industry practice.
Possession of Intellectual Property
(xxii) . With respect to any privacy and security commitments made by the Company and its subsidiaries applicable to customer data provided to the Company or its subsidiaries through their products and services or otherwise (including, without limitation, the terms and conditions of use and privacy policies of the Company) (the "Commitments"), (i) to the knowledge of the Company, the Company is and has consistently been in compliance in all material respects with all applicable U.S. privacy laws, as well as with the Commitments; (ii) except as disclosed to the Initial Purchasers or their representatives, the Company has not received any inquiries from any Governmental Entity relating to the Commitments; (iii) there are no pending or threatened claims or litigation regarding the Commitments or compliance with the Commitments; (iv) to the Company's knowledge, no applicable certification organization has found the Company to be out of compliance with such Commitments and (v) to the knowledge of the Company, there have been no security breaches caused by or resulting from the action or inaction of the Company (including failure to implement industry standard security measures to protect such data), with respect to data held by or on behalf of the Company resulting in unauthorized access to, use of or disclosure of such data except as would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Privacy Compliance
(xxiii) . The Company and its subsidiaries have appropriate or otherwise reasonable on-going arrangements for the maintenance, support and disaster recovery of the information and communications networks owned or used by the Company and its subsidiaries both internally and to provide products and services to third parties ("IT System"). The Company and its subsidiaries follow appropriate or otherwise reasonable procedures (i) to preserve the availability, security and integrity of the IT System, and the data and information stored on the IT System, and (ii) to protect the IT System from infection by viruses, worms, trojan horses and other material known contaminants ("Harmful Code") and from access by unauthorized persons or entities. To the Company's knowledge, the IT System has not: (i) failed to function, (ii) been infected by any Harmful Code that caused any material disruption, damage or unauthorized access to systems, networks or data, or (iii) been accessed by any unauthorized person or entity, in each case (clauses (i), (ii) or (iii)) in a manner that would reasonably be expected to, singly or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Data Security
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
(xxiv) . Except as would not, singly or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, to the Company's knowledge (A) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, code, policy or rule of common law or any judicial or administrative interpretation thereof, including any judicial or administrative order, consent, decree or judgment, relating to pollution or the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to the release or threatened release of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances, petroleum or petroleum products, asbestos-containing materials or mold (collectively, "Hazardous Materials") or to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials (collectively, "Environmental Laws"), (B) the Company and its subsidiaries have all permits, authorizations and approvals required under any applicable Environmental Laws and are each in compliance with their requirements, (C) there are no pending or threatened administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, demands, demand letters, claims, liens, notices of noncompliance or violation, investigation or proceedings relating to any Environmental Law against the Company or any of its subsidiaries and (D) there are no events or circumstances that would reasonably be expected to form the basis of an order for clean-up or remediation, or an action, suit or proceeding by any private party or Governmental Entity, against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries relating to Hazardous Materials or any Environmental Laws.
Environmental Laws
(xxv) . The Company and each of its subsidiaries maintain effective internal control over financial reporting (as defined under Rule 13a-15 and 15d-15 under the 1934 Act Regulations) and a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances (A) that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP; (B) that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (C) regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company's assets that could have a material impact on its financial statements. Since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (1) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (2) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting. The Company and each of its subsidiaries maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15 and Rule 15d-15 under the 1934 Act Regulations) that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the 1934 Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Accounting Controls and Disclosure Controls
(xxvi) . There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company or any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith, including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
(xxvii) . All United States federal income tax returns of the Company and its subsidiaries required by law to be filed have been filed and all taxes shown by such returns or otherwise assessed, which are due and payable, have been paid, except as are being contested in good faith and as to which adequate reserves have been provided. The Company and its subsidiaries have filed all other tax returns that are required to have been filed by them pursuant to applicable foreign, state, local or other law except insofar as the failure to file such returns would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, and has paid all material taxes due pursuant to such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by the Company and its subsidiaries, except for such taxes, if any, as are being contested in good faith and as to which adequate reserves have been established by the Company. The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Company in respect of any income and corporation tax liability for any years not finally determined are adequate to meet any assessments or re-assessments for additional income tax for any years not finally determined, except to the extent of any inadequacy that would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Payment of Taxes
(xxviii) . The Company and its subsidiaries carry or are entitled to the benefits of insurance, with recognized financially sound and reputable insurers, in such amounts and covering such risks as are customary in the businesses as now conducted by the Company and its subsidiaries, and all such insurance is in full force and effect in all material respects. The Company has no reason to believe that it or any of its subsidiaries will not be able (A) to renew its existing insurance coverage as and when such policies expire or (B) to obtain comparable coverage from similar institutions as may be necessary or appropriate to conduct its business as now conducted and at a cost that would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Neither of the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has been denied any insurance coverage which it has sought or for which it has applied.
Insurance
(xxix) . The Company is not required, and upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated and the application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum will not be required, to register as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "1940 Act").
Investment Company Act
(xxx) . Neither the Company nor any affiliate of the Company has taken, nor will the Company or any affiliate take, directly or indirectly, any action which is designed, or would be expected, to cause or result in, or which has constituted, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
Absence of Manipulation
(xxxi) . None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee, affiliate or other person acting on behalf of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such persons of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (the "FCPA"), including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA and the Company and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure continued compliance therewith.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
(xxxii) . The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any Governmental Entity (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws"); and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any Governmental Entity involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened.
Money Laundering Laws
(xxxiii) . None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee, affiliate or other person acting on behalf of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department ("OFAC"); and the Company will not knowingly, directly or indirectly, use the proceeds of the sale of the Securities, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any of its subsidiaries, joint venture partners or other person, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
OFAC
(xxxiv) . Any statistical and market-related data included in the General Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum are based on or derived from sources that the Company believes to be reliable and accurate and, to the extent required, the Company has obtained the written consent to the use of such data from such sources.
Statistical and Market-Related Data
(b) . Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries delivered to the Representative or to counsel for the Initial Purchasers shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company to each Initial Purchaser as to the matters covered thereby.
Officer's Certificates
SECTION 2. .
Sale and Delivery to Initial Purchasers; Closing
(a) . On the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and upon the terms and subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Initial Purchaser, severally and not jointly, and each Initial Purchaser, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company, at the price set forth in Schedule A, the aggregate principal amount of Initial Securities set forth in Schedule A, plus any additional principal amount of Initial Securities which such Initial Purchaser may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 11 hereof, subject to such adjustments as Merrill Lynch in its discretion shall make to ensure that any sales or purchases are in authorized denominations.
Initial Securities
(b) . In addition, on the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and upon the terms and subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Company hereby grants an option to the Initial Purchasers, severally and not jointly, to purchase the Option Securities, at the price set forth in Schedule A. The option hereby granted will expire 15 days after the date hereof and may be exercised in whole or in part from time to time only for the purpose of covering overallotments made in connection with the offering and distribution of the Initial Securities upon notice by the Representative to the Company setting forth the amount of Option Securities as to which the several Initial Purchasers are then exercising the option and the time and date of payment and delivery for such Option Securities. Any such time and date of delivery (a "Date of Delivery") shall be determined by the Representative, but shall not be later than January 29, 2010, nor in any event prior to the Closing Time. If the option is exercised as to all or any portion of the Option Securities, each of the Initial Purchasers, acting severally and not jointly, will purchase that proportion of the total principal amount of Option Securities then being
Option Securities
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
purchased which the number of Initial Securities set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Initial Purchaser bears to the total principal amount of Initial Securities, subject in each case to such adjustments as Merrill Lynch in its discretion shall make to ensure that any sales or purchases are in authorized denominations.
(c) . Payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, the Initial Securities shall be made at the offices of Latham & Watkins LLP, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Representative and the Company, at 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third (fourth, if the pricing occurs after 4:30 P.M. (New York City time) on any given day) business day after the date hereof (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 11), or such other time not later than ten business days after such date as shall be agreed upon by the Representative and the Company (such time and date of payment and delivery being herein called "Closing Time").
Payment
In addition, if any or all of the Option Securities are purchased by the Initial Purchasers, payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, such Option Securities shall be made at the above-mentioned offices, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Representative and the Company, on each Date of Delivery as specified in the notice from the Representative to the Company.
Payment shall be made to the Company by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by the Company, against delivery to the Representative for the respective accounts of the Initial Purchasers of certificates for the Securities to be purchased by them. It is understood that each Initial Purchaser has authorized the Representative, for its account, to accept delivery of, receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Initial Securities and the Option Securities, if any, which it has agreed to purchase. Merrill Lynch, individually and not as representative of the Initial Purchasers, may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment of the purchase price for the Initial Securities or the Option Securities, if any, to be purchased by any Initial Purchaser whose funds have not been received by the Closing Time or the relevant Date of Delivery, as the case may be, but such payment shall not relieve such Initial Purchaser from its obligations hereunder.
(d) . Certificates for the Initial Securities and the Option Securities, if any, shall be in such denominations ($1,000 or integral multiples thereof) and registered in such names as the Representative may request in writing at least one full business day before the Closing Time or the relevant Date of Delivery, as the case may be. The Initial Securities and the Option Securities, if any, will be made available for examination and packaging by the Representative in The City of New York not later than 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the business day prior to the Closing Time or the relevant Date of Delivery, as the case may be.
Denominations; Registration
SECTION 3. . The Company covenants with each Initial Purchaser as follows:
Covenants of the Company
(a) . The Company hereby consents to the use by the Initial Purchasers of the copies of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum (as amended or supplemented) and documents incorporated by reference therein that have heretofore been made available to the Initial Purchasers. The Company will furnish to each Initial Purchaser, without charge, such number of copies of the Final Offering Memorandum thereto and documents incorporated by reference therein as such Initial Purchaser may reasonably request, provided that the Company need not furnish any documents incorporated by reference in the Final Offering Memorandum to the extent such documents are at such time available on EDGAR.
Delivery of Offering Memorandum
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
(b) . If at any time prior to the completion of resales of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary to amend or supplement the General Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum in order that the General Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum, as the case may be, will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances existing at the time it is delivered to a Subsequent Purchaser, the Company will promptly (A) give the Representative notice of such event and (B) prepare any amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission and, a reasonable amount of time prior to any proposed use or distribution, furnish the Representative with copies of any such amendment or supplement; provided that the Company shall not use or distribute any such amendment or supplement to which the Representative or counsel for the Initial Purchasers shall reasonably object. The Company will furnish to the Initial Purchasers such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Initial Purchasers may reasonably request.
Notice and Effect of Material Events
(c) . Until the completion of resales of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers, the Company will file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the 1934 Act within the time periods required by the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations. The Company will give the Representative notice of its intention to make any such filing from the Applicable Time to the Closing Time and will furnish the Representative with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representative or counsel for the Initial Purchasers shall reasonably object.
Reporting Requirements
(d) . The Company will use its reasonable best efforts, in cooperation with the Initial Purchasers, to qualify the Securities for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions (domestic or foreign) as the Representative may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect so long as required to complete the distribution of the Securities; provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject.
Blue Sky Qualifications
(e) . The Company will cooperate with the Initial Purchasers and use its reasonable best efforts to permit the offered Securities to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation ("DTCC").
DTCC
(f) . The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to effect and maintain the listing of the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange.
Listing
(g) . During a period of 45 days from the date of the Final Offering Memorandum, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of Merrill Lynch, (i) directly or indirectly, offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase or otherwise transfer or dispose of any shares of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock or file any registration statement under the 1933 Act with respect to any of the foregoing or (ii) enter into any swap or any other agreement or any transaction that transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequence of ownership of the Common Stock, whether any such swap or transaction described in clause (i) or (ii) above is to be settled by delivery of Common Stock or such other securities, in cash or otherwise. The foregoing sentence shall not apply to (A) the Securities to be sold hereunder, (B) any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Securities, (C) any shares of Common Stock issued by the Company upon the conversion, exchange or exercise of securities convertible into or exchangeable of exercisable for Common Stock, which securities are outstanding on the date hereof, (D) the grant of equity incentives pursuant to plans in effect as of the date hereof, (E) the
Restriction on Sale of Securities
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
filing of any registration statement on Form S-8 (or amendment thereto), (F) the grant of any warrant to any of the Initial Purchasers or their affiliates and transfers or sales of Common Stock, each pursuant to the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions referred to in the General Disclosure Package.
(h) . The Company agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representative, it will not make any offer relating to the Securities by any written materials other than the Offering Memorandum or the Issuer Written Information set forth on Schedule B.
Issuer Written Information
SECTION 4. .
Payment of Expenses
(a) . The Company will pay or cause to be paid all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, printing and filing of any Offering Memorandum (including financial statements and any schedules or exhibits and any document incorporated therein by reference) and of each amendment or supplement thereto, (ii) preparation, issuance and delivery of the Securities to the Initial Purchasers and the Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof and any charges of DTCC in connection therewith, (iii) the fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel, accountants and other advisors, (iv) the qualification of the Securities under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(d) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Initial Purchasers in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (v) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Initial Purchasers of copies of each Preliminary Offering Memorandum, any Issuer Written Information, the Final Term Sheet and the Final Offering Memorandum and any amendments or supplements thereto and costs, if any, associated with electronic delivery of any of the foregoing by the Initial Purchasers to investors, (vi) all fees and expenses of the Trustee and any expenses of any transfer agent or registrar for the Securities or the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities, (vii) the costs and expenses of the Company relating to investor presentations on any "road show" undertaken in connection with the marketing of the Securities, including without limitation, expenses associated with the production of road show slides and graphics, (viii) the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities on the New York Stock Exchange and (ix) the costs and expenses (including, without limitation, any damages or other amounts payable in connection with legal or contractual liability) associated with the reforming of any contracts for sale of the Securities made by the Initial Purchasers caused by a breach of the representation and warranty contained Section 1(a)(ii); provided that the Company shall not be responsible for any such costs or expenses pursuant to this clause (ix) if any failure or breach of such representation and warranty is caused by or resulting from the actions of the Initial Purchasers.
Expenses
(b) . If this Agreement is terminated by the Representative in accordance with the provisions of Section 5, Section 10(a)(i) (unless the Company shall have satisfied the condition set for in Section 5(c)) or 10(a)(iii) hereof, the Company shall reimburse the Initial Purchasers for all of their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Initial Purchasers.
Termination of Agreement
SECTION 5. . The obligations of the several Initial Purchasers hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company contained herein or in certificates of any officer of the Company, to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following further conditions:
Conditions of Initial Purchasers' Obligations
(a) . At the Closing Time, the Representative shall have received the opinion, dated the Closing Time, of Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, Professional Corporation, counsel for the Company, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the
Opinion of Counsel for Company
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
Initial Purchasers, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Initial Purchasers to the effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto. Such counsel may state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers and other representatives of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
(b) . At Closing Time, the Representative shall have received the favorable opinion, dated the Closing Time, of Latham & Watkins LLP, counsel for the Initial Purchasers, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Initial Purchasers in form and substance satisfactory to the Representative. In giving such opinion such counsel may rely, as to all matters governed by the laws of jurisdictions other than the law of the State of New York, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the federal securities laws of the United States, upon the opinions of counsel satisfactory to the Representative. Such counsel may also state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers and other representatives of the Company and its subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
Opinion of Counsel for Initial Purchasers
(c) . At the Closing Time, there shall not have been, since the date hereof or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the General Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum, any Material Adverse Effect; and the Representative shall have received a certificate of the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer of the Company, dated the Closing Time, to the effect that (i) there has been no such Material Adverse Effect, (ii) the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of the Closing Time and (iii) the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Time.
Officers' Certificate
(d) . At the time of the execution of this Agreement, the Representative shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP a letter, dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representative, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Initial Purchasers containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Offering Memorandum.
Accountant's Comfort Letter
(e) . At the Closing Time, the Representative shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP a letter, dated as of the Closing Time, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished pursuant to subsection (d) of this Section, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to the Closing Time.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
(f) . At the Closing Time, the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities shall have been approved for listing on the New York Stock Exchange, subject only to official notice of issuance.
Approval of Listing
(g) . At the date of this Agreement, the Representative shall have received an agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto signed by the persons listed on Schedule D hereto.
Lock-up Agreements
(h) . If the Initial Purchasers exercise their option provided in Section 2(b) hereof to purchase all or any portion of the Option Securities, the representations and warranties of the Company contained herein and the statements in any certificates furnished by the Company and any of its subsidiaries hereunder shall be true and correct as of each Date of Delivery and, at the relevant Date of Delivery, the Representative shall have received:
Conditions to Purchase of Option Securities
(i) . A certificate, dated such Date of Delivery, of the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer of the Company confirming that the certificate delivered at the Closing Time pursuant to Section 5(c) hereof remains true and correct as of such Date of Delivery.
Officers' Certificate
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
(ii) . If requested by the Representative, the opinion of Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, counsel for the Company, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, dated such Date of Delivery, relating to the Option Securities to be purchased on such Date of Delivery and otherwise to the same effect as the opinion required by Section 5(a) hereof.
Opinion of Counsel for Company
(iii) . If requested by the Representative, the favorable opinion of Latham & Watkins LLP, counsel for the Initial Purchasers, dated such Date of Delivery, relating to the Option Securities to be purchased on such Date of Delivery and otherwise to the same effect as the opinion required by Section 5(b) hereof.
Opinion of Counsel for Initial Purchasers
(iv) . If requested by the Representative, a letter from Ernst & Young LLP, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representative and dated such Date of Delivery, substantially in the same form and substance as the letter furnished to the Representative pursuant to Section 5(d) hereof, except that the "specified date" in the letter furnished pursuant to this paragraph shall be a date not more than three business days prior to such Date of Delivery.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
(i) . At the Closing Time and at each Date of Delivery (if any) counsel for the Initial Purchasers shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities as herein contemplated shall be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representative and counsel for the Initial Purchasers.
Additional Documents
(j) . If any condition specified in this Section shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement, or, in the case of any condition to the purchase of Option Securities on a Date of Delivery which is after the Closing Time, the obligations of the several Initial Purchasers to purchase the relevant Option Securities, may be terminated by the Representative by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to Closing Time or such Date of Delivery, as the case may be, and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except, subject to the provisions of Section 10(b), as provided in Section 4 and except that Sections 1, 7, 8, 9, 14, 15 and 16 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Termination of Agreement
SECTION 6. .
Subsequent Offers and Resales of the Securities
(a) . Each of the Initial Purchasers and the Company hereby establish and agree to observe the following procedures in connection with the offer and sale of the Securities:
Offer and Sale Procedures
(i) . Offers and sales of the Securities shall be made to such persons and in such manner as is contemplated by the Offering Memorandum. Each Initial Purchaser severally agrees that it will not offer, sell or deliver any of the Securities in any jurisdiction outside the United States except under circumstances that will result in compliance with the applicable laws thereof, and that it will take at its own expense whatever action is required to permit its purchase and resale of the Securities in such jurisdictions. The Company has not
Offers and Sales
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
entered into any contractual arrangement with respect to the distribution of the Securities or the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities except for this Agreement, and the Company will not enter into any such arrangement except as contemplated thereby.
(ii) . No general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Rule 502(c) under the 1933 Act) will be used in the United States in connection with the offering or sale of the Securities.
No General Solicitation
(iii) .Each of the Securities will bear, to the extent applicable, the legend contained in "Notice to Investors" in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Offering Memorandum for the time period and upon the other terms stated therein.
Legends
(iv) . No sale of the Securities to any one Subsequent Purchaser will be for less than U.S. $1,000 principal amount and no Security will be issued in a smaller principal amount.
Minimum Principal Amount
(b) . The Company covenants with each Initial Purchaser as follows:
Covenants of the Company
(i) . The Company agrees that it will not and will cause its Affiliates not to, directly or indirectly, solicit any offer to buy, sell or make any offer or sale of, or otherwise negotiate in respect of, securities of the Company of any class if, as a result of the doctrine of "integration" referred to in Rule 502 under the 1933 Act, such offer or sale would render invalid (for the purpose of (i) the sale of the offered Securities by the Company to the Initial Purchasers, (ii) the resale of the offered Securities by the Initial Purchasers to Subsequent Purchasers or (iii) the resale of the offered Securities by such Subsequent Purchasers to others) the exemption from the registration requirements of the 1933 Act provided by Section 4(2) thereof or by Rule 144A thereunder or otherwise.
Integration
(ii) . The Company agrees that, in order to render the offered Securities eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144A under the 1933 Act, while any of the offered Securities remain outstanding, it will make available, upon request, to any holder of offered Securities or prospective purchasers of Securities the information specified in Rule 144A(d)(4), unless the Company furnishes information to the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the 1934 Act.
Rule 144A Information
(iii) . Until the expiration of one year after the original issuance of the offered Securities, the Company will not, and will cause its Affiliates not to, resell any offered Securities which are "restricted securities" (as such term is defined under Rule 144(a)(3) under the 1933 Act), whether as beneficial owner or otherwise (except as agent acting as a securities broker on behalf of and for the account of customers in the ordinary course of business in unsolicited broker's transactions).
Restriction on Repurchases
(c) . Each Initial Purchaser severally and not jointly represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the Company that it is a Qualified Institutional Buyer and an "accredited investor" within the meaning of Rule 501(a) under the 1933 Act. Each Initial Purchaser understands that the offered Securities have not been and will not be registered under the 1933 Act and may not be offered or sold within the United States except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the 1933 Act. Each Initial Purchaser severally represents and agrees that it has not offered or sold, and will not offer or sell, any offered Securities constituting part of its allotment within the United States except in accordance with Rule 144A under the 1933 Act or another applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the
Representations, Warranties and Agreements of Initial Purchasers
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
1933 Act. Accordingly, neither it nor any person acting on its behalf has made or will make offers or sales of the Securities in the United States by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Regulation D) in the United States. Each Initial Purchaser will take reasonable steps to inform, and cause each of its Affiliates to take reasonable steps to inform, persons acquiring Securities from such Initial Purchaser or Affiliate, as the case may be, in the United States that the Securities (A) have not been and will not be registered under the 1933 Act, (B) are being sold to them without registration under the 1933 Act in reliance on Rule 144A or in accordance with another exemption from registration under the 1933 Act, as the case may be, and (C) may not be offered, sold or otherwise transferred except (1) to the Company, (2) outside the United States in accordance with Regulation S or (3) inside the United States in accordance with (x) Rule 144A to a person whom the seller reasonably believes is a Qualified Institutional Buyer that is purchasing such Securities for its own account or for the account of a Qualified Institutional Buyer to whom notice is given that the offer, sale or transfer is being made in reliance on Rule 144A or (y) pursuant to another available exemption from registration under the 1933 Act.
SECTION 7. .
Indemnification
(a) . The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser, its Affiliates, its selling agents and each person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows:
Indemnification of Initial Purchasers
(i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact included in any Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Final Offering Memorandum, the information contained in the Final Term Sheet, any Issuer Written Information or any other written information used by or on behalf of the Company in connection with the offer or sale of the Securities (or any amendment or supplement to the foregoing) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
(ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; provided that (subject to Section 7(d) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company; and
(iii) against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by Merrill Lynch), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under (i) or (ii) above;
provided, however, that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in any Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Final Offering Memorandum, Issuer Written Information or the information contained in the Final Term Sheet (or any amendment or supplement to the foregoing) in reliance upon and in conformity with the Initial Purchaser Information.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
(b) . Each Initial Purchaser severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, its officers and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in subsection (a) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in any Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Final Offering Memorandum, Issuer Written Information or the information contained in the Final Term Sheet (or any amendment or supplement to the foregoing) in reliance upon and in conformity with the Initial Purchaser Information.
Indemnification of Company, Directors and Officers
(c) . Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 7(a) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by Merrill Lynch, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 7(b) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Company. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; provided, however, that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 7 or Section 8 hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Actions against Parties; Notification
SECTION 8. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 7 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and of the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
Contribution
The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, on the one hand, and the total underwriting discount received by the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Securities as set forth on the cover of the Final Offering Memorandum.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Initial Purchasers and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
The Company and the Initial Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Initial Purchasers were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 8. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 8 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 8, no Initial Purchaser shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Initial Purchaser has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
For purposes of this Section 8, each person, if any, who controls an Initial Purchaser within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act and each Initial Purchaser's Affiliates and selling agents shall have the same rights to contribution as such Initial Purchaser, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company. The Initial Purchasers' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 8 are several in proportion to the aggregate principal amount of Initial Securities set forth opposite their respective names in Schedule A hereto and not joint.
SECTION 9. . All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Company or any of its subsidiaries submitted pursuant hereto, shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser or its Affiliates or selling agents, any person controlling any Initial Purchaser, its officers or directors or any person controlling the Company and (ii) delivery of and payment for the Securities.
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive
SECTION 10. .
Termination of Agreement
(a) . The Representative may terminate this Agreement, by notice to the Company, at any time at or prior to the Closing Time (i) if there has been, since the time of execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the General Disclosure Package or the Final Offering Memorandum, any Material Adverse Effect, or (ii) if there has occurred
Termination
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or the international financial markets, any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any change or development involving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representative, impracticable or inadvisable to market the Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities, or (iii) if trading in any securities of the Company has been suspended or materially limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or (iv) if trading generally on the New York Stock Exchange has been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by any of said exchanges or by order of the Commission, FINRA or any other governmental authority, or (v) a material disruption has occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States, or (vi) if a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal or New York authorities.
(b) . If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except, in the case of termination pursuant to Section 10(a)(i) (unless the Company shall satisfied the condition set forth in Section 5(c)) or Section 10(a)(iii) as provided in Section 4 hereof, and provided further that Sections 1, 7, 8, 9, 14, 15 and 16 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Liabilities
SECTION 11. . If one or more of the Initial Purchasers shall fail at Closing Time or a Date of Delivery to purchase the Securities which it or they are obligated to purchase under this Agreement (the "Defaulted Securities"), the Representative shall have the right, within 24 hours thereafter, to make arrangements for one or more of the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers, or any other initial purchasers, to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Securities in such amounts as may be agreed upon and upon the terms herein set forth; if, however, the Representative shall not have completed such arrangements within such 24-hour period, then each of the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers shall be obligated, severally and not jointly, to purchase the full amount thereof in the proportions that their respective initial purchase obligations hereunder bear to the initial purchase obligations of all non-defaulting Initial Purchasers. No action taken pursuant to this Section shall relieve any defaulting Initial Purchaser from liability in respect of its default.
Default by One or More of the Initial Purchasers
SECTION 12. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Initial Purchasers shall be directed to the Merrill Lynch at One Bryant Park, New York, New York 10036, attention of Syndicate Department, with a copy to ECM Legal; notices to the Company shall be directed to it at salesforce.com, inc., The Landmark @ One Market, Suite 300, San Francisco, California 94105, attention of General Counsel.
Notices
SECTION 13. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that (a) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the initial public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, (b) in connection with the offering of the Securities and the process leading thereto, each Initial Purchaser is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the agent or fiduciary of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or their respective stockholders, creditors, employees or any other party, (c) no Initial Purchaser has assumed or will assume an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to the offering of the Securities or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Initial Purchaser has advised or is currently advising the Company or any of its subsidiaries on other matters) and no Initial Purchaser has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering of the Securities except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement, (d) the Initial Purchasers and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that
No Advisory or Fiduciary Relationship
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
differ from those of the Company and (e) the Initial Purchasers have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering of the Securities and the Company has consulted its own respective legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
SECTION 14. . This Agreement shall each inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Initial Purchasers and the Company and their respective successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Initial Purchasers and the Company and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 7 and 8 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Initial Purchasers and the Company and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Securities from any Initial Purchaser shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
Parties
SECTION 15. . The Company (on its behalf and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on behalf of its stockholders and affiliates) and each of the Initial Purchasers hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
Trial by Jury
SECTION 16. . THIS AGREEMENT AND ANY CLAIM, CONTROVERSY OR DISPUTE ARISING UNDER OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF, THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO ITS CHOICE OF LAW PROVISIONS.
GOVERNING LAW
SECTION 17. . TIME SHALL BE OF THE ESSENCE OF THIS AGREEMENT. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE SET FORTH HEREIN, SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME.
TIME
SECTION 18. . The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Partial Unenforceability
SECTION 19. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
SECTION 20. . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company a counterpart hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts, will become a binding agreement among the Initial Purchasers and the Company in accordance with its terms.
 
CONFIRMED AND ACCEPTED,
as of the date first above written:
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED
 
For itself and as Representative of the other Initial Purchasers named in Schedule A hereto.
The registrant agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request a copy of any omitted schedule or exhibit.

Exhibit 10.2
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The purpose of this communication (this "") is to set forth the terms and conditions of the above-referenced transaction entered into on the Trade Date specified below (the "") between [Dealer] ("") and salesforce.com, inc (""). This communication constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the ISDA Master Agreement specified below.
Confirmation
Transaction
Dealer
Counterparty
1. This Confirmation is subject to, and incorporates, the definitions and provisions of the 2000 ISDA Definitions (including the Annex thereto) (the "") and the definitions and provisions of the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the "", and together with the 2000 Definitions, the ""), in each case as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (""). In the event of any inconsistency between the 2000 Definitions and the Equity Definitions, the Equity Definitions will govern. Certain defined terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture [to be] dated as of January 19, 2010 between Counterparty and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "") relating to USD[500,000,000] principal amount of []% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 [and the additional USD[] principal amount of []% convertible securities due 2015 issued pursuant to the overallotment option exercised on the date hereof]
2000 Definitions
Equity Definitions
Definitions
ISDA
Indenture
    
    
    
3
(the ""). In the event of any inconsistency between the terms defined in the Indenture and this Confirmation, this Confirmation shall govern. For the avoidance of doubt, references herein to sections of the Indenture are based on the draft of the Indenture most recently reviewed by the parties at the time of execution of this Confirmation. If any relevant sections of the Indenture are changed, added or renumbered following execution of this Confirmation but prior to the execution of the Indenture, the parties will amend this Confirmation in good faith to preserve the economic intent of the parties based on the draft of the Indenture so reviewed. The parties further acknowledge that references to the Indenture herein are references to the Indenture as in effect on the date of its execution and if the Indenture is amended following its execution, any such amendment will be disregarded for purposes of this Confirmation (other than as provided in Section 8(a) below) unless the parties agree otherwise in writing.
Convertible Securities
This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between Dealer and Counterparty as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall be subject to an agreement (the "") in the form of the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if Dealer and Counterparty had executed an agreement in such form (without any Schedule but with the elections set forth in this Confirmation). For the avoidance of doubt, the Transaction shall be the only transaction under the Agreement.
Agreement
ISDA Form
 
 
All provisions contained in, or incorporated by reference to, the Agreement will govern this Confirmation except as expressly modified herein. In the event of any inconsistency between this Confirmation and either the Definitions or the Agreement, this Confirmation shall govern.
2. The Transaction constitutes a Share Option Transaction for purposes of the Equity Definitions. The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
General Terms:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.
Representations, Warranties and Agreements:
(a) In addition to the representations and warranties in the Agreement and those contained elsewhere herein, Counterparty represents and warrants to and for the benefit of, and agrees with, Dealer as follows:
(i) On the Trade Date, and as of the date of any election by Counterparty of the Share Termination Alternative under (and as defined in) Section 8(b) below, (A) none of Counterparty and its executive officers and directors is aware of any material nonpublic information regarding Counterparty or the Shares and (B) all reports and other documents filed by Counterparty with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "") when considered as a whole (with the more recent such reports and documents deemed to amend inconsistent statements contained in any earlier such reports and documents), do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or any omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading.
Exchange Act
(ii)(A) On the Trade Date and during the period starting on the first Expiration Date and ending on the last Expiration Date (the ""), the Shares or securities that are convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for Shares, are not, and shall not be, subject to a "restricted period," as such term is defined in Regulation M under the Exchange Act ("") unless (x) such Shares or securities are excepted from section 101(a) of Regulation M by sections 101(c)(1) or 101(c)(3) of Regulation M and section
Settlement Period
Regulation M
 
102(a) of Regulation M by sections 102(d)(1) or 102(d)(3) of Regulation M or (y) such Shares or securities are of the kind that may be excepted from the prohibitions of sections 101(a) and 102(a) of Regulation M by sections 101(b)(10) and 102(b)(7) of Regulation M and (B) Counterparty shall not engage in any "distribution," as such term is defined in Regulation M, other than a distribution meeting the requirements of the exceptions set forth in sections 101(b)(10) and 102(b)(7) of Regulation M, until the second Exchange Business Day immediately following the Trade Date.
(iii) On the Trade Date, neither Counterparty nor any "affiliate" or "affiliated purchaser" (each as defined in Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act ("")) shall directly or indirectly (including, without limitation, by means of any cash-settled or other derivative instrument) purchase, offer to purchase, place any bid or limit order that would effect a purchase of, or commence any tender offer relating to, any Shares (or an equivalent interest, including a unit of beneficial interest in a trust or limited partnership or a depository share) or any security convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for Shares, except through Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, Goldman, Sachs & Co. or any of their affiliates.
Rule 10b-18
(iv) Without limiting the generality of Section 13.1 of the Equity Definitions, Counterparty acknowledges that Dealer is not making any representations or warranties with respect to the treatment of the Transaction under any accounting standards including ASC Topic 260, , ASC Topic 815, , or ASC Topic 480, and ASC 815-40, .
Earnings Per Share
Derivatives and Hedging
Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity
Derivatives and Hedging  Contracts in Entity's Own Equity
(v) Without limiting the generality of Section 3(a)(iii) of the Agreement, the Transaction will not violate Rule 13e-1 or Rule 13e-4 under the Exchange Act.
(vi) Prior to the Trade Date, Counterparty shall deliver to Dealer a resolution of Counterparty's board of directors authorizing the Transaction and such other certificate or certificates as Dealer shall reasonably request.
(vii) Counterparty is not entering into this Confirmation to create actual or apparent trading activity in the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for Shares) or otherwise manipulate the price of the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for Shares) or otherwise in violation of the Exchange Act.
(viii) Counterparty is not, and after giving effect to the transactions contemplated hereby will not be, required to register as an "investment company" as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
(ix) On each of the Trade Date and the Premium Payment Date, Counterparty is not, or will not be, "insolvent" (as such term is defined under Section 101(32) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Title 11 of the United States Code) (the "")) and Counterparty would be able to purchase a number of Shares equal to the Number of Shares [plus the "Number of Shares", as defined in the Base Convertible Bond Hedge Transaction Confirmation,]
Bankruptcy Code
9
in compliance with the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation.
(x) No state or local law, rule, regulation or regulatory order in the State of Delaware or California applicable to the Shares would give rise to any reporting, consent, registration or other requirement (including without limitation a requirement to obtain prior approval from any person or entity) as a result of Dealer or its affiliates owning or holding (however defined) Shares.
(xi) The representations and warranties of Counterparty set forth in Section 3 of the Agreement and Section 1(a) of the Purchase Agreement dated as of January 12, 2010 between the Counterparty and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated as representative of the Initial Purchasers party thereto (the "") are true and correct and are hereby deemed to be repeated to Dealer as if set forth herein.
Purchase Agreement
(xii) Counterparty understands no obligations of Dealer to it hereunder will be entitled to the benefit of deposit insurance and that such obligations will not be guaranteed by any affiliate of Dealer or any governmental agency.
 
 
 
(b) Each of Dealer and Counterparty agrees and represents that it is an "eligible contract participant" as defined in Section 1a(12) of the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act, as amended.
(c) Each of Dealer and Counterparty acknowledges that the offer and sale of the Transaction to it is intended to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), by virtue of Section 4(2) thereof. Accordingly, Counterparty represents and warrants to Dealer that (i) it has the financial ability to bear the economic risk of its investment in the Transaction and is able to bear a total loss of its investment, (ii) it is an "accredited investor" as that term is defined in Regulation D as promulgated under the Securities Act, (iii) it is entering into the Transaction for its own account and without a view to the distribution or resale thereof and (iv) the assignment, transfer or other disposition of the Transaction has not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act and is restricted under this Confirmation, the Securities Act and state securities laws.
Securities Act
(d) Each of Dealer and Counterparty agrees and acknowledges that Dealer is a "financial institution," "swap participant" and "financial participant" within the meaning of Sections 101(22), 101(53C) and 101(22A) of the Bankruptcy Code. The parties hereto further agree and acknowledge that it is the intent of the parties (A) that this Confirmation is (i) a "securities contract," as such term is defined in Section 741(7) of the Bankruptcy Code, with respect to which each payment and delivery hereunder or in connection herewith is a "termination value," "payment amount" or "other transfer obligation" within the meaning of Section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code and a "settlement payment," as such term is defined in Section 741(8) of the Bankruptcy Code, and (ii) a "swap agreement," as such term is defined in Section 101(53B) of the Bankruptcy Code, with respect to which each payment and delivery hereunder or in connection herewith is a "termination value," "payment amount" or "other transfer obligation" within the meaning of Section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code and a "transfer," as such term is defined in Section 101(54) of the Bankruptcy Code, and (B) that Dealer is entitled to the protections afforded by, among other sections, Sections 362(b)(6), 362(b)(17), 362(o), 546(e), 546(g), 548(d)(2), 555 and 560 of the Bankruptcy Code.
(e) Counterparty shall deliver to Dealer an opinion of counsel, dated as of the Effective Date and reasonably acceptable to Dealer in form and substance, with respect to due incorporation, existence and good standing of Issuer in Delaware, its qualifications as a foreign corporation and good standing in California, the due authorization, execution and delivery of this Confirmation, and the absence of conflict of the execution, delivery and performance of this Confirmation with any material agreement required to be filed as an exhibit to Issuer's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Issuer's charter documents.
8. :
Other Provisions
(a) . The occurrence of (i) an "Event of Default" with respect to Counterparty under the terms of the Convertible Securities as set forth in Section 6.01 of the Indenture or (ii) an Amendment Event shall be an Additional Termination Event with respect to which the Transaction is the sole Affected Transaction and Counterparty is the sole Affected Party and Dealer shall be the party entitled to designate an Early Termination Date pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Agreement.
Additional Termination Events
"Amendment Event" means that Counterparty amends, modifies, supplements, waives or obtains a waiver in respect of any term of the Indenture or the Convertible Securities governing the principal amount, coupon (but only if such event results in a decrease to such coupon), maturity, the amount payable upon a repurchase obligation of Counterparty upon a fundamental change, any term relating to conversion of the Convertible Securities (including changes to the conversion price, conversion settlement dates or conversion conditions), or any term that would require consent of the holders of not less than 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Securities to amend, in each case without the consent of Dealer.
(b) . If Dealer shall owe Counterparty any amount pursuant to "Consequences of Merger Events" above or Sections 12.6, 12.7 or 12.9 of the Equity Definitions or pursuant to Section 6(d)(ii) of the Agreement (a ""), Counterparty shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to require Dealer to satisfy any such Payment Obligation by the Share Termination Alternative (as defined below) by giving irrevocable telephonic notice to Dealer, confirmed in writing within one Scheduled Trading Day, no later than 9:30 A.M. New York City time on the relevant merger date, Announcement Date, Early Termination Date or date of cancellation or termination in respect of an Extraordinary Event, as applicable (""); that if Counterparty does not elect to require Dealer to satisfy its Payment Obligation by the Share Termination Alternative, Dealer shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to elect to satisfy its Payment Obligation by the Share Termination Alternative, notwithstanding Counterparty's failure to elect or election to the contrary; and that Counterparty shall not have the right
Alternative Calculations and Payment on Early Termination and on Certain Extraordinary Events
Payment Obligation
Notice of Share Termination
provided
provided further
 
to so elect (but, for the avoidance of doubt, Dealer shall have the right to so elect) in the event of (i) an Insolvency, a Nationalization or a Merger Event, in each case, in which the consideration or proceeds to be paid to holders of Shares consists solely of cash or (ii) an Event of Default in which Counterparty is the Defaulting Party or a Termination Event in which Counterparty is the Affected Party, which Event of Default or Termination Event resulted from an event or events within Counterparty's control. Upon such Notice of Share Termination, the following provisions shall apply on the Scheduled Trading Day immediately following the relevant merger date, Announcement Date, Early Termination Date or date of cancellation or termination in respect of an Extraordinary Event, as applicable:
 
(c) . Counterparty hereby agrees that if, in the good faith reasonable judgment of Dealer, based on the advice of counsel, any Shares (the "") acquired by Dealer or one of its affiliates for the purpose of hedging Dealer's obligations pursuant to the Transaction cannot be sold in the public market by Dealer without registration under the Securities Act, Counterparty shall, at its election: (i) in order to allow Dealer to sell the Hedge Shares in a registered offering, make available to Dealer an effective registration statement under the Securities Act to cover the resale of such Hedge Shares and (A) enter into an agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to Dealer, substantially in the form of an underwriting agreement for underwritten follow-on offerings of equity securities of companies of comparable size, maturity and lines of business, (B) provide accountant's "comfort"
Disposition of Hedge Shares
Hedge Shares
 
letters in customary form for underwritten follow-on offerings of equity securities, (C) provide disclosure opinions of nationally recognized outside counsel to Counterparty as are customarily requested in connection with underwritten follow-on offers of equity securities of companies of comparable size, maturity and lines of business, (D) provide other customary opinions, certificates and closing documents customary in form for underwritten follow-on offerings of equity securities of companies of comparable size, maturity and lines of business and (E) afford Dealer a reasonable opportunity to conduct a "due diligence" investigation with respect to Counterparty customary in scope for underwritten follow-on offerings of equity securities of companies of comparable size, maturity and lines of business; , that if Dealer, in its sole reasonable discretion, is not satisfied with access to due diligence materials, the results of its due diligence investigation, or the procedures and documentation for the registered offering referred to above, then clause (ii) or clause (iii) of this Section 8(c) shall apply at the election of Counterparty; that Dealer has given Counterparty reasonable notice of its determination and provided Counterparty with reasonable opportunity to satisfy Dealer's concerns (ii) in order to allow Dealer to sell the Hedge Shares in a private placement, enter into a private placement agreement substantially similar to private placement purchase agreements customary for private placements of equity securities of companies of comparable size, maturity and lines of business, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Dealer, including customary representations, covenants, blue sky and other governmental filings and/or registrations, indemnities to Dealer, due diligence rights (for Dealer or any designated buyer of the Hedge Shares from Dealer), opinions and certificates and such other documentation as is customary for private placements agreements, all reasonably acceptable to Dealer (in which case, the Calculation Agent shall make any adjustments to the terms of the Transaction that are necessary, in its reasonable judgment, to compensate Dealer for any discount from the public market price of the Shares incurred on the sale of Hedge Shares in a private placement); or (iii) purchase the Hedge Shares from Dealer at the VWAP Price on such Exchange Business Days, and in the amounts, requested by Dealer. "VWAP Price" means, on any Exchange Business Day, the per Share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading "Bloomberg VWAP" on Bloomberg page CRM.N <equity> AQR (or any successor thereto) in respect of the period from 9:30 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. (New York City time) on such Exchange Business Day (or if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable or is manifestly incorrect, the market value of one Share on such Exchange Business Day, as determined by the Calculation Agent using a volume-weighted method).
provided, however
provided
(d) . The following amendment shall be made to the Equity Definitions:
Amendment to Equity Definitions
Section 12.6(a)(ii) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by (1) deleting from the fourth line thereof the word "or" after the word "official" and inserting a comma therefor, and (2) deleting the semi-colon at the end of subsection (B) thereof and inserting the following words therefor "or (C) at Dealer's option, the occurrence of any of the events specified in Section 5(a)(vii) (1) through (9) of the ISDA Master Agreement with respect to that Issuer."
(e) . Counterparty shall, at least five Scheduled Trading Days prior to effecting any repurchase of Shares or consummating or otherwise executing or engaging in any transaction or event (a "") that would lead to an increase in the Conversion Rate (as such term is defined in the Indenture), give Dealer a written notice of such repurchase or Conversion Rate Adjustment Event (a "") if, following such repurchase or Conversion Rate Adjustment Event, the Notice Percentage as determined on the date of such Repurchase Notice is (i) greater than 4.5% and (ii) greater by 0.5% than the Notice Percentage included in the immediately preceding Repurchase Notice (or, in the case of the first such Repurchase Notice, greater than the Notice Percentage as of the date hereof); that such information shall have been publicly disclosed prior to the time of such Repurchase Notice if and to the extent that it would have constituted material non-public information in respect of Counterparty or the Shares otherwise. The "" as of any day is the fraction, expressed as a percentage, the numerator of which is the Number of Shares and the denominator of which is the number of Shares outstanding on such day. In the event that Counterparty fails to provide Dealer with a Repurchase Notice on the day and in the manner specified in this Section 8(e) then Counterparty agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Dealer, its affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons (Dealer and each such person being an "") from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (or actions in respect thereof), joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject under applicable securities laws, including without limitation, Section 16 of the Exchange Act, relating to or arising out of such failure. If for any reason the foregoing indemnification is unavailable to any Indemnified Party or insufficient to hold harmless any Indemnified Party, then Counterparty shall contribute, to the maximum extent permitted by law, to the amount paid or payable by the Indemnified Party as a result of such loss, claim, damage or liability. In addition, Counterparty will reimburse any Indemnified Party for any reasonable expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) as they are incurred (after notice to Counterparty) in connection with the investigation of, preparation for or defense or settlement of any pending or threatened claim or any action, suit or proceeding arising therefrom, whether or not such
Repurchase and Conversion Rate Adjustment Notices
Conversion Rate Adjustment Event
Repurchase Notice
provided
Notice Percentage
Indemnified Party
 
Indemnified Party is a party thereto and whether or not such claim, action, suit or proceeding is initiated or brought by or on behalf of Counterparty. This indemnity shall survive the completion of the Transaction contemplated by this Confirmation and any assignment and delegation of the Transaction made pursuant to this Confirmation or the Agreement shall inure to the benefit of any permitted assignee of Dealer.
(f) . Either party may transfer any of its rights or obligations under the Transaction with the prior written consent of the non-transferring party, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed. For the avoidance of doubt, Dealer may condition its consent on any of the following, without limitation: (i) the receipt by Dealer of opinions and documents reasonably satisfactory to Dealer in connection with such assignment, (ii) such assignment being effected on terms reasonably satisfactory to Dealer with respect to any legal and regulatory requirements relevant to Dealer, and (iii) Counterparty continuing to be obligated to provide notices hereunder relating to the Convertible Securities and continuing to be obligated with respect to "Disposition of Hedge Shares" and "Repurchase Notices" above. In addition, Dealer may transfer or assign without any consent of the Counterparty its rights and obligations hereunder and under the Agreement, in whole or in part, to (i) any of its affiliates, (ii) any entities sponsored or organized by, or on behalf of or for the benefit of Dealer or (iii) any person of credit quality equivalent to Dealer or its guarantor at the time of transfer or (iv) any person with a rating for its long term, unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of A+ or better by Standard and Poor's Rating Group, Inc. or its successor ("") or Aa3 or better by Moody's Investor Service, Inc. or its successor (""), or, if either S&P or Moody's ceases to rate such debt, at least an equivalent rating or better by a substitute agency mutually agreed by Counterparty and Dealer. Dealer shall, as soon as reasonably practicable, notify Counterparty and the trustee under the Indenture of any such transfer or assignment. At any time at which any Excess Ownership Position exists, if Dealer, in its discretion, is unable to effect a transfer or assignment to a third party in accordance with the requirements set forth above after using its commercially reasonable efforts on pricing terms and within a time period reasonably acceptable to Dealer such that an Excess Ownership Position no longer exists, Dealer may designate any Scheduled Trading Day as an Early Termination Date with respect to a portion (the "") of the Transaction, such that such Excess Ownership Position no longer exists. In the event that Dealer so designates an Early Termination Date with respect to a portion of the Transaction, a payment or delivery shall be made pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement and Section 8(b) of this Confirmation as if (i) an Early Termination Date had been designated in respect of a Transaction having terms identical to the Terminated Portion of the Transaction, (ii) Counterparty shall be the sole Affected Party with respect to such partial termination and (iii) such portion of the Transaction shall be the only Terminated Transaction. "" means any of the following: (i) the Equity Percentage exceeds 9.0%, (ii) Dealer or any "affiliate" or "associate" of Dealer would own in excess of 13% of the outstanding Shares for purposes of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law or (iii) Dealer, Dealer Group (as defined below) or any person whose ownership position would be aggregated with that of Dealer or Dealer Group (Dealer, Dealer Group or any such person, a "") under any federal, state or local laws, regulations or regulatory orders applicable to ownership of Shares (""), owns, beneficially owns, constructively owns, controls, holds the power to vote or otherwise meets a relevant definition of ownership in excess of a number of Shares equal to (x) the number of Shares that would give rise to reporting or registration obligations or other requirements (including obtaining prior approval by a state or federal regulator) of a Dealer Person under Applicable Laws and with respect to which such requirements have not been met or the relevant approval has not been received or that would give rise to any consequences under the constitutive documents of Counterparty or any contract or agreement to which Counterparty is a party, in each case (y) 1% of the number of Shares outstanding on the date of determination. The "" as of any day is the fraction, expressed as a percentage, (A) the numerator of which is the number of Shares that Dealer and any of its affiliates or any other person subject to aggregation with Dealer, for purposes of the "beneficial ownership" test under Section 13 or Section 16 of the Exchange Act, or of any "group" (within the meaning of Section 13 or Section 16) of which Dealer is or may be deemed to be a part (Dealer and any such affiliates, persons and groups, collectively, ""), beneficially owns (within the meaning of Section 13 or Section 16 of the Exchange Act), without duplication, on such day and (B) the denominator of which is the number of Shares outstanding on such day.
Transfer and Assignment
S&P
Moody's
Terminated Portion
Excess Ownership Position
Dealer Person
Applicable Laws
minus
Equity Percentage
Dealer Group
(g) . Dealer may, by notice to Counterparty on or prior to any Settlement Date (a ""), elect to deliver the Shares on two or more dates (each, a "") or at two or more times on the Nominal Settlement Date as follows:
Staggered Settlement
Nominal Settlement Date
Staggered Settlement Date
(i) in such notice, Dealer will specify to Counterparty the related Staggered Settlement Dates (each of which will be on or prior to such Nominal Settlement Date, but not prior to the beginning of the related Observation Period, as defined in the Indenture) or delivery times and how it will allocate the Shares it is required to deliver under "Delivery Obligation" (above) among the Staggered Settlement Dates or delivery times; and
 
(ii) the aggregate number of Shares that Dealer will deliver to Counterparty hereunder on all such Staggered Settlement Dates and delivery times will equal the number of Shares that Dealer would otherwise be required to deliver on such Nominal Settlement Date.
(h) . Dealer may postpone any Exercise Date or Settlement Date or any other date of valuation or delivery by Dealer, with respect to some or all of the relevant Options (in which event the Calculation Agent shall make appropriate adjustments to the Delivery Obligation), if Dealer determines, in its reasonable discretion, that such extension is reasonably necessary or appropriate to (i) preserve Dealer's hedging or hedge unwind activity hereunder in light of existing liquidity conditions in the cash market, the stock loan market or any other market in which Dealer, in the exercise of its commercially reasonable discretion, deems it advisable to hedge its exposure to the Transaction or (ii) to enable Dealer to effect purchases of Shares in connection with its hedging, hedge unwind or settlement activity hereunder in a manner that would, if Dealer were Counterparty or an affiliated purchaser of Counterparty, be in compliance with applicable legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements, or with related policies and procedures applicable to Dealer; that any such extension pursuant to clause (i) shall not exceed 30 Exchange Business Days.
Right to Extend
provided
(i) . For the avoidance of doubt, whenever the Calculation Agent is called upon to make an adjustment pursuant to the terms of this Confirmation or the Definitions to take into account the effect of an event, the Calculation Agent shall make such adjustment by reference to the effect of such event on the Hedging Party, assuming that the Hedging Party maintains a commercially reasonable hedge position.
Adjustments
(j) . Effective from the date of commencement of discussions concerning the Transaction, Counterparty and each of its employees, representatives, or other agents may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the Transaction and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to Counterparty relating to such tax treatment and tax structure.
Disclosure
(k) . Notwithstanding any other provision in this Confirmation to the contrary requiring or allowing Dealer to purchase, sell, receive or deliver any Shares or other securities to or from Counterparty, Dealer may designate any of its affiliates to purchase, sell, receive or deliver such shares or other securities and otherwise to perform Dealer obligations in respect of the Transaction and any such designee may assume such obligations. Dealer shall be discharged of its obligations to Counterparty to the extent of any such performance.
Designation by Dealer
(l) . Each party waives any and all rights it may have to set off obligations arising under the Agreement and the Transaction against other obligations between the parties, whether arising under any other agreement, applicable law or otherwise.
No Netting and Set-off
(m) . Dealer acknowledges and agrees that this Confirmation is not intended to convey to it rights with respect to the Transaction that are senior to the claims of common stockholders in the event of Counterparty's bankruptcy. For the avoidance of doubt, the parties agree that the preceding sentence shall not apply at any time other than during Counterparty's bankruptcy to any claim arising as a result of a breach by Counterparty of any of its obligations under this Confirmation or the Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, the parties acknowledge that this Confirmation is not secured by any collateral that would otherwise secure the obligations of Counterparty herein under or pursuant to any other agreement.
Equity Rights
(n) . In the event the sale by Counterparty of the [Convertible Securities]
Early Unwind
10
[Optional Securities]
11
is not consummated with the initial purchasers pursuant to the Purchase Agreement for any reason by the close of business in New York on January 19, 2010 (or such later date as agreed upon by the parties, which in no event shall be later than February 2, 2010) (January 19, 2010 or such later date being the ""), the Transaction shall automatically terminate (the ""), on the Early Unwind Date and (i) the Transaction and all of the respective rights and obligations of Dealer and Counterparty thereunder shall be cancelled and terminated and (ii) Counterparty shall pay to Dealer an amount in cash equal to the aggregate amount of costs and expenses relating to the unwinding of Dealer's hedging activities in respect of the Transaction (including market losses incurred in reselling
Early Unwind Date
Early Unwind
 
 
 
any Shares purchased by Dealer or its affiliates in connection with such hedging activities), such unwinding to be conducted in a manner consistent with Dealer's standard practice or, at the election of Counterparty, deliver to Dealer Shares with a value equal to such amount, as determined by the Calculation Agent, in which event the parties shall enter into customary and commercially reasonable documentation relating to the registered or exempt resale of such Shares, taking into account the size of such equity placement. Following such termination, cancellation and payment, each party shall be released and discharged by the other party (to the extent permitted by applicable law) from and agrees not to make any claim against the other party with respect to any obligations or liabilities of either party arising out of and to be performed in connection with the Transaction either prior to or after the Early Unwind Date. Dealer and Counterparty represent and acknowledge to the other that upon an Early Unwind and following the payment referred to above, all obligations with respect to the Transaction shall be deemed fully and finally discharged.
(o) . The parties hereby agree that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the Definitions or in the Agreement, following the payment of the Premium, in the event that an Early Termination Date (whether as a result of an Event of Default or a Termination Event) occurs or is designated with respect to the Transaction or the Transaction is terminated or cancelled pursuant to Article 12 of the Equity Definitions and, as a result, Counterparty would owe to Dealer an amount calculated under Section 6(e) of the Agreement or Article 12 of the Equity Definitions, such amount shall be deemed to be zero.
Payments by Counterparty upon Early Termination
(p) . .
Waiver of Trial by Jury
EACH OF COUNTERPARTY AND DEALER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES (ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ON BEHALF OF ITS STOCKHOLDERS) ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE TRANSACTION OR THE ACTIONS OF DEALER OR ITS AFFILIATES IN THE NEGOTIATION, PERFORMANCE OR ENFORCEMENT HEREOF
(q) . .
Governing Law; Jurisdiction
THIS CONFIRMATION AND ANY CLAIM, CONTROVERSY OR DISPUTE ARISING UNDER OR RELATED TO THIS CONFIRMATION SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY SUBMIT TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND THE UNITED STATES COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK IN CONNECTION WITH ALL MATTERS RELATING HERETO AND WAIVE ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE IN, AND ANY CLAIM OF INCONVENIENT FORUM WITH RESPECT TO, THESE COURTS
(r) Notwithstanding anything herein or in the Agreement to the contrary, in no event shall Dealer (or, in the case of Section 8(n), Counterparty) be required to deliver Shares in connection with the Transaction in excess of the Number of Shares, subject to adjustment from time to time in accordance with the provisions of the Confirmation and Definitions resulting from actions of Counterparty or events within its control.
Limitation on Settlements.
 
Counterparty hereby agrees (a) to check this Confirmation carefully and immediately upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified and (b) to confirm that the foregoing (in the exact form provided by Dealer) correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between Dealer and Counterparty with respect to the Transaction, by manually signing this Confirmation or this page hereof as evidence of agreement to such terms and providing the other information requested herein and immediately returning an executed copy to [], Facsimile No. [].
                    
                    
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED HEREBY (THE "WARRANTS") WERE ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND THE WARRANTS MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS THEREOF.
January [    ], 2010
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The purpose of this communication (this "") is to set forth the terms and conditions of the above-referenced transaction entered into on the Trade Date specified below (the "") between [Dealer] ("") and salesforce.com, inc (""). This communication constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the ISDA Master Agreement specified below.
Confirmation
Transaction
Dealer
Issuer
1. This Confirmation is subject to, and incorporates, the definitions and provisions of the 2000 ISDA Definitions (including the Annex thereto) (the "") and the definitions and provisions of the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the "", and together with the 2000 Definitions, the ""), in each case as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (""). In the event of any inconsistency between the 2000 Definitions and the Equity Definitions, the Equity Definitions will govern. For purposes of the Equity Definitions, each reference herein to a Warrant shall be deemed to be a reference to a Call Option or an Option, as context requires.
2000 Definitions
Equity Definitions
Definitions
ISDA
This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between Dealer and Issuer as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall be subject to an agreement (the "") in the form of the 2002 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if Dealer and Issuer had executed an agreement in such form (without any Schedule but with the elections set forth in this Confirmation). For the avoidance of doubt, the Transaction shall be the only transaction under the Agreement.
Agreement
ISDA Form
All provisions contained in, or incorporated by reference to, the Agreement will govern this Confirmation except as expressly modified herein. In the event of any inconsistency between this Confirmation and either the Definitions or the Agreement, this Confirmation shall govern.
 
 
2. The Transaction is a Warrant Transaction, which shall be considered a Share Option Transaction for purposes of the Equity Definitions. The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. :
Representations, Warranties and Agreements
(a) In addition to the representations and warranties in the Agreement and those contained elsewhere herein, Issuer represents and warrants to and for the benefit of, and agrees with, Dealer as follows:
(i) On the Trade Date, and as of the date of any election by Issuer of the Share Termination Alternative under (and as defined in) Section 8(a) below, (A) none of Issuer and its officers and directors is aware of any material nonpublic information regarding Issuer or the Shares and (B) all reports and other documents filed by Issuer with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Exchange Act, when considered as a whole (with the more recent such reports and documents deemed to amend inconsistent statements contained in any earlier such reports and documents), do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or any omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading.
(ii) Without limiting the generality of Section 13.1 of the Equity Definitions, Issuer acknowledges that Dealer is not making any representations or warranties with respect to the treatment of the Transaction under any accounting standards including ASC Topic 260, , ASC Topic 815, , or ASC Topic 480, and ASC 815-40, .
Earnings Per Share
Derivatives and Hedging
Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity
Derivatives and Hedging  Contracts in Entity's Own Equity
(iii) Prior to the Trade Date, Issuer shall deliver to Dealer a resolution of Issuer's board of directors authorizing the Transaction and such other certificate or certificates as Dealer shall reasonably request.
(iv) Issuer is not entering into this Confirmation to create actual or apparent trading activity in the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for Shares) or otherwise manipulate the price of the Shares (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for Shares) or otherwise in violation of the Exchange Act.
(v) Issuer is not, and after giving effect to the transactions contemplated hereby will not be, required to register as an "investment company" as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
(vi) On the Trade Date, (A) the assets of Issuer at their fair valuation exceed the liabilities of Issuer, including contingent liabilities, (B) the capital of Issuer is adequate to conduct the business of Issuer and (C) Issuer has the ability to pay its debts and obligations as such debts mature and does not intend to, or does not believe that it will, incur debt beyond its ability to pay as such debts mature.
(vii) Issuer shall not take any action to decrease the number of Available Shares below the Capped Number (each as defined below).
(viii) The representations and warranties of Issuer set forth in Section 3 of the Agreement and Section 1(a) of the Purchase Agreement (the "") dated as of [the Trade Date]
Purchase Agreement
4
[January 12, 2010]
5
between Issuer and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated as representative of the Initial Purchasers party thereto are true and correct and are hereby deemed to be repeated to Dealer as if set forth herein.
(ix) Issuer understands no obligations of Dealer to it hereunder will be entitled to the benefit of deposit insurance and that such obligations will not be guaranteed by any Affiliate of Dealer or any governmental agency.
(x)(A) On the Trade Date and during the period starting on the first Expiration Date and ending on the last Expiration Date (the ""), the Shares or securities that are convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for Shares, are not, and shall not be, subject to a "restricted period," as such term is defined in Regulation M under the Exchange Act ("") unless (x) such Shares or securities are excepted from section 101(a) of Regulation M by sections 101(c)(1) or 101(c)(3) of Regulation M and section 102(a) of Regulation M by sections 102(d)(1) or 102(d)(3) of Regulation M or (y) such Shares or securities are of the kind that may be excepted from the prohibitions of sections 101(a) and 102(a) of Regulation M by sections 101(b)(10) and 102(b)(7) of Regulation M and (B) Issuer shall not engage in any "distribution" (as
Settlement Period
Regulation M
 
 
 
such term is defined in Regulation M) other than a distribution meeting the requirements of the exceptions set forth in sections 101(b)(10) and 102(b)(7) of Regulation M, until the second Exchange Business Day immediately following the Trade Date or until the second Exchange Business Day immediately following the Settlement Period, as applicable.
(xi) During the Settlement Period, neither Issuer nor any "affiliate" or "affiliated purchaser" (each as defined in Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act ("")) shall directly or indirectly (including, without limitation, by means of any cash-settled or other derivative instrument) purchase, offer to purchase, place any bid or limit order that would effect a purchase of, or commence any tender offer relating to, any Shares (or an equivalent interest, including a unit of beneficial interest in a trust or limited partnership or a depository share) or any security convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for Shares, except through Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch or Goldman, Sachs & Co. and except for purchases from its employees that are not "Rule 10b-18 purchases" as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(13) under the Exchange Act.
Rule 10b-18
(xii) Issuer agrees that it (A) will not during the Settlement Period make, or permit to be made, any public announcement (as defined in Rule 165(f) under the Securities Act) of any Merger Transaction or potential Merger Transaction unless such public announcement is made prior to the opening or after the close of the regular trading session on the Exchange for the Shares; (B) shall promptly (but in any event prior to the next opening of the regular trading session on the Exchange) notify Dealer following any such announcement that such announcement has been made; and (C) shall promptly (but in any event prior to the next opening of the regular trading session on the Exchange) provide Dealer with written notice specifying (x) Issuer's average daily Rule 10b-18 Purchases (as defined in Rule 10b-18) during the three full calendar months immediately preceding the announcement date that were not effected through Dealer or its affiliates and (y) the number of Shares purchased pursuant to the proviso in Rule 10b-18(b)(4) under the Exchange Act for the three full calendar months preceding the announcement date. Such written notice shall be deemed to be a certification by Issuer to Dealer that such information is true and correct. In addition, Issuer shall promptly notify Dealer of the earlier to occur of the completion of such transaction and the completion of the vote by target shareholders. "" means any merger, acquisition or similar transaction involving a recapitalization as contemplated by Rule 10b-18(a)(13) (iv) under the Exchange Act.
Merger Transaction
(xiii) The Shares of Issuer initially issuable upon exercise of the Warrant (the "") have been reserved for issuance by all required corporate action of Issuer. The Warrant Shares have been duly authorized and, when delivered against payment therefor (which may include Net Share Settlement in lieu of cash) and otherwise as contemplated by the terms of the Warrant following the exercise of the Warrant in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Warrant, will be validly issued, fully-paid and non-assessable, and the issuance of the Warrant Shares will not be subject to any preemptive or similar rights.
Warrant Shares
(xiv) No state or local law, rule, regulation or regulatory order in the State of Delaware or California applicable to the Shares would give rise to any reporting, consent, registration or other requirement (including without limitation a requirement to obtain prior approval from any person or entity) as a result of Dealer or its affiliates owning or holding (however defined) Shares.
(b) Each of Dealer and Issuer agrees and represents that it is an "eligible contract participant" as defined in Section 1a(12) of the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act, as amended.
(c) Each of Dealer and Issuer acknowledges that the offer and sale of the Transaction to it is intended to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), by virtue of Section 4(2) thereof. Accordingly, Dealer represents and warrants to Issuer that (i) it has the financial ability to bear the economic risk of its investment in the Transaction and is able to bear a total loss of its investment, (ii) it is an "accredited investor" as that term is defined in Regulation D as promulgated under the Securities Act, (iii) it is entering into the Transaction for its own account without a view to the distribution or resale thereof and (iv) the assignment, transfer or other disposition of the Transaction has not been and will not be registered under the Securities Act and is restricted under this Confirmation, the Securities Act and state securities laws.
Securities Act
(d) Each of Dealer and Issuer agrees and acknowledges that Dealer is a "financial institution," "swap participant" and "financial participant" within the meaning of Sections 101(22), 101(53C) and 101(22A) of Title 11 of the United States Code (the ""). The parties hereto further agree and acknowledge that it is the intent of the parties (A) that this Confirmation is (i) a "securities contract," as such term is defined in Section 741(7) of the
Bankruptcy Code
 
Bankruptcy Code, with respect to which each payment and delivery hereunder or in connection herewith is a "termination value," "payment amount" or "other transfer obligation" within the meaning of Section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code and a "settlement payment," as such term is defined in Section 741(8) of the Bankruptcy Code, and (ii) a "swap agreement," as such term is defined in Section 101(53B) of the Bankruptcy Code, with respect to which each payment and delivery hereunder or in connection herewith is a "termination value," "payment amount" or "other transfer obligation" within the meaning of Section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code and a "transfer," as such term is defined in Section 101(54) of the Bankruptcy Code, and (B) that Dealer is entitled to the protections afforded by, among other sections, Sections 362(b)(6), 362(b)(17), 362(o), 546(e), 546(g), 548(d)(2), 555 and 560 of the Bankruptcy Code.
(e) Issuer shall deliver to Dealer an opinion of counsel, dated as of the Effective Date and reasonably acceptable to Dealer in form and substance, with respect to due incorporation, existence and good standing of Issuer in Delaware, its qualifications as a foreign corporation and good standing in California, the due authorization, execution and delivery of this Confirmation, and the absence of conflict of the execution, delivery and performance of this Confirmation with any material agreement required to be filed as an exhibit to Issuer's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Issuer's charter documents.
8. :
Other Provisions
(a) . If Issuer shall owe Dealer any amount pursuant to Sections 12.2, 12.3, 12.6, 12.7 or 12.9 of the Equity Definitions or pursuant to Section 6(d)(ii) of the Agreement (a ""), Issuer shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to satisfy any such Payment Obligation by the Share Termination Alternative (as defined below) by giving irrevocable telephonic notice to Dealer, confirmed in writing within one Scheduled Trading Day, no later than 9:30 A.M. New York City time on the Merger Date, Tender Offer Date, Announcement Date, Early Termination Date or date of cancellation or termination in respect of an Extraordinary Event, as applicable (""); that if Issuer does not elect to satisfy its Payment Obligation by the Share Termination Alternative, Dealer shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to elect to require Issuer to satisfy its Payment Obligation by the Share Termination Alternative, notwithstanding Issuer's failure to elect or election to the contrary; and that Issuer shall not have the right to so elect (but, for the avoidance of doubt, Dealer shall have the right to so elect) in the event of (i) an Insolvency, a Nationalization, a Tender Offer or a Merger Event, in each case, in which the consideration or proceeds to be paid to holders of Shares consists solely of cash or (ii) an Event of Default in which Issuer is the Defaulting Party or a Termination Event in which Issuer is the Affected Party, which Event of Default or Termination Event resulted from an event or events within Issuer's control. Upon such Notice of Share Termination, the following provisions shall apply on the Scheduled Trading Day immediately following the Merger Date, the Tender Offer Date, Announcement Date, Early Termination Date or date of cancellation or termination in respect of an Extraordinary Event, as applicable:
Alternative Calculations and Payment on Early Termination and on Certain Extraordinary Events
Payment Obligation
Notice of Share Termination
provided
provided further
 
 
(b) . (i) If, in the reasonable judgment of Dealer, based on the advice of counsel, for any reason, any Shares or any securities of Issuer or its affiliates comprising any Share Termination Delivery Units deliverable to Dealer hereunder (any such Shares or securities, "") would not be immediately freely transferable by Dealer under Rule 144 under the Securities Act, then the provisions set forth in this Section 8(b) shall apply. At the election of Issuer by notice to Dealer within one Exchange Business Day after the relevant delivery obligation arises, but in any event at least one Exchange Business Day prior to the date on which such delivery obligation is due, either (A) all Delivered Securities delivered by Issuer to Dealer shall be, at the time of such delivery, covered by an effective registration statement of Issuer for immediate resale by Dealer (such registration statement and the corresponding prospectus (the "") (including, without limitation, any sections describing the plan of distribution) in form and content commercially reasonably satisfactory to Dealer) or (B) Issuer shall deliver additional Delivered Securities so that the value of such Delivered Securities, as reasonably determined by the Calculation Agent to reflect an appropriate liquidity discount, equals the value of the number of Delivered Securities that would otherwise be deliverable if such Delivered Securities were freely tradeable (without prospectus delivery) upon receipt by Dealer (such value, the ""); that Issuer may not make the election described in this clause (B) if, on the date of its election, it has taken, or caused to be taken, any action that would make unavailable either the exemption pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act for the delivery by Issuer to Dealer (or any affiliate designated by Dealer) of the Delivered Securities or the exemption pursuant to Section 4(1) or Section 4(3) of the Securities Act for resales of the Delivered Securities by Dealer (or any such affiliate of Dealer). (For the avoidance of doubt, as used in this paragraph (b) only, the term "Issuer" shall mean the issuer of the relevant securities, as the context shall require.)
Registration/Private Placement Procedures
Delivered Securities
Prospectus
Freely Tradeable Value
provided
(ii) If Issuer makes the election described in clause (b)(i)(A) above:
(A) Dealer (or an Affiliate of Dealer designated by Dealer) shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to conduct a due diligence investigation with respect to Issuer that is customary in scope for underwritten follow-on offerings of equity securities of companies of comparable size, maturity and lines of business and that yields results that are satisfactory to Dealer or such Affiliate, as the case may be, in its reasonable discretion subject to execution by such recipients of customary confidentiality agreements reasonably acceptable to Issuer; and
(B) Dealer (or an Affiliate of Dealer designated by Dealer) and Issuer shall enter into an agreement (a "") on commercially reasonable terms in connection with the public resale of such Delivered Securities by Dealer or such Affiliate substantially similar to underwriting agreements customary for underwritten follow-on offerings of equity securities of companies of comparable size, maturity and lines of business, in form and substance commercially reasonably satisfactory to Dealer or such Affiliate and Issuer, which Registration Agreement shall include, without limitation, provisions substantially similar to those contained in such underwriting agreements of companies of comparable size, maturity and lines of business relating to the indemnification of, and contribution in connection with the liability of, Dealer and its Affiliates and Issuer, shall provide for the payment by Issuer of all reasonable expenses in connection with such resale, including all registration costs and all reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for Dealer, and in
Registration Agreement
 
connection with an underwritten offering of Delivered Securities shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to provide for the delivery of accountants' "comfort letters" to Dealer or such Affiliate in customary form and substance of companies of comparable size, maturity and lines of business with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in or incorporated by reference into the Prospectus.
(iii) If Issuer makes the election described in clause (b)(i)(B) above:
(A) Dealer (or an Affiliate of Dealer designated by Dealer) and any potential institutional purchaser of any such Delivered Securities from Dealer or such Affiliate identified by Dealer shall be afforded a commercially reasonable opportunity to conduct a due diligence investigation in compliance with applicable law with respect to Issuer customary in scope for private placements of equity securities of companies of comparable size, maturity and lines of business (including, without limitation, the right to have made available to them for inspection all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and other information reasonably requested by them subject to execution by such recipients of customary confidentiality agreements reasonably acceptable to Issuer);
(B) Dealer (or an Affiliate of Dealer designated by Dealer) and Issuer shall enter into an agreement (a "") on commercially reasonable terms in connection with the private placement of such Delivered Securities by Issuer to Dealer or such Affiliate and the private resale of such Delivered Securities by Dealer or such Affiliate, substantially similar to private placement purchase agreements customary for private placements of equity securities of similar size, in form and substance commercially reasonably satisfactory to Dealer and Issuer, which Private Placement Agreement shall include, without limitation, provisions substantially similar to those contained in such private placement purchase agreements relating to the indemnification of, and contribution in connection with the liability of, Dealer and its Affiliates and Issuer, shall provide for the payment by Issuer of all reasonable expenses in connection with such resale, including all reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for Dealer, shall contain representations, warranties and agreements of Issuer reasonably necessary or advisable to establish and maintain the availability of an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act for such resales, and shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide for the delivery of accountants' "comfort letters" to Dealer or such Affiliate with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in or incorporated by reference into the offering memorandum prepared for the resale of such Delivered Securities as are customarily requested in comfort letters covering private placements of equity securities of companies of comparable size, maturity and lines of business;
Private Placement Agreement
(C) Issuer agrees that under applicable law as it currently exists any Delivered Securities so delivered to Dealer, (i) may be transferred by and among Dealer and its Affiliates, and Issuer shall effect such transfer without any further action by Dealer and (ii) after the minimum "holding period" within the meaning of Rule 144(d) under the Securities Act has elapsed with respect to such Delivered Securities, Issuer shall promptly remove, or cause the transfer agent for such Shares or securities to remove, any legends referring to any such restrictions or requirements from such Delivered Securities upon delivery by Dealer (or such Affiliate of Dealer) to Issuer or such transfer agent of seller's and broker's representation letters customarily delivered by Dealer in connection with resales of restricted securities pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, without any further requirement for the delivery of any certificate, consent, agreement, opinion of counsel, notice or any other document, any transfer tax stamps or payment of any other amount or any other action by Dealer (or such affiliate of Dealer); and
(D) Issuer shall not take, or cause to be taken, any action that would make unavailable either the exemption pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act for the sale by Issuer to Dealer (or any affiliate designated by Dealer) of the Shares or Share Termination Delivery Units, as the case may be, or the exemption pursuant to Section 4(1) or Section 4(3) of the Securities Act for resales of the Shares or Share Termination Delivery Units, as the case may be, by Dealer (or any such affiliate of Dealer).
(c) . If Issuer makes the election described in clause (b)(i)(B) of paragraph (b) of this Section 8, then Dealer or its affiliates may sell such Shares or Share Termination Delivery Units, as the case may be, during a period (the "") commencing on the Exchange Business Day following delivery of such Shares or Share Termination Delivery Units, as the case may be, and ending on the Exchange Business Day on which Dealer or its Affiliates completes the sale of all such Shares or Share Termination Delivery Units, as the case may be, or a sufficient number of Shares or Share Termination Delivery Units, as the case may be, so that the realized net proceeds of such sales exceed the Freely Tradeable Value (such amount of the Freely Tradeable Value, the ""). If any
Make-whole
Resale Period
Required Proceeds
 
of such delivered Shares or Share Termination Delivery Units remain after such realized net proceeds exceed the Required Proceeds, Dealer shall promptly return such remaining Shares or Share Termination Delivery Units to Issuer. If the Required Proceeds exceed the realized net proceeds from such resale, Issuer shall transfer to Dealer by the open of the regular trading session on the Exchange on the Exchange Trading Day immediately following the last day of the Resale Period the amount of such excess (the "") in cash or in a number of additional Shares or Share Termination Delivery Units, as the case may be (""), in an amount that, based on the Relevant Price on the last day of the Resale Period (as if such day was the "Valuation Date" for purposes of computing such Relevant Price), has a dollar value equal to the Additional Amount. The Resale Period shall continue to enable the sale of the Make-whole Shares in the manner contemplated by this Section 8(c). This provision shall be applied successively until the Additional Amount is equal to zero, subject to Section 8(e).
Additional Amount
Make-whole Shares
(d) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement or this Confirmation, in no event may Dealer exercise any Warrant hereunder, have the right to acquire (within the meaning of NYSE Rule 312.04(g)) Shares upon the exercise of any Warrant hereunder, or be entitled to receive, or be deemed to receive, any Shares in connection with this Transaction, and Automatic Exercise shall not apply with respect to any Warrant hereunder, to the extent (and only to the extent) that upon the receipt of such Shares, (i) Dealer's Beneficial Ownership would be equal to or greater than 9.0% of the outstanding Shares, (ii) Dealer, or any "affiliate" or "associate" of Dealer, would be an "interested stockholder" of Issuer, as all such terms are defined in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, (iii) Dealer, Dealer Group (as defined below) or any person whose ownership position would be aggregated with that of Dealer or Dealer Group (Dealer, Dealer Group or any such person, a "") under any federal, state or local laws, regulations or regulatory orders applicable to ownership of Shares (""), owns, beneficially owns, constructively owns, controls, holds the power to vote or otherwise meets a relevant definition of ownership in excess of a number of Shares equal to (x) the number of Shares that would give rise to reporting or registration obligations or other requirements (including obtaining prior approval by a state or federal regulator) of a Dealer Person under Applicable Laws and with respect to which such requirements have not been met or the relevant approval has not been received or that would give rise to any consequences under the constitutive documents of Issuer or any contract or agreement to which Issuer is a party, in each case (y) 1% of the number of Shares outstanding on the date of determination, or (iv) Dealer or any group of purchasers related to Dealer (within the meaning of NYSE Rule 312.04(g)) would acquire or have the "right to acquire" (within the meaning of NYSE Rule 312.04(g)) a number of Shares that would exceed 4.9% of the Shares outstanding on the Trade Date (each of clause (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) above, an ""). Any purported delivery hereunder shall be void and have no effect to the extent (but only to the extent) that such delivery would exceed an Ownership Limitation. If any delivery owed to Dealer hereunder is not made, in whole or in part, as a result of an Ownership Limitation, Dealer's right to receive such delivery shall not be extinguished and Issuer shall make such delivery as promptly as practicable after, but in no event later than three Exchange Business Days after, Dealer gives notice to Issuer that such delivery would not result in any of such Ownership Limitations being breached. "" means the "beneficial ownership" (within the meaning of Section 13 of the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder (collectively, "") or within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder (collectively, "")) of Shares, without duplication, by Dealer, together with any of its affiliates or other person subject to aggregation with Dealer under Section 13 or under Section 16 for purposes of "beneficial ownership", or by any "group" (within the meaning of Section 13) of which Dealer is or may be deemed to be a part (Dealer and any such affiliates, persons and groups, collectively, ""). Notwithstanding anything in the Agreement or this Confirmation to the contrary, Dealer (or the affiliate designated by Dealer pursuant to Section 8(l) below) shall not become the record or beneficial owner, or otherwise have any rights as a holder, of any Shares that Dealer (or such affiliate) is not entitled to receive at any time pursuant to this Section 8(d), until such time as such Shares are delivered pursuant to this Section 8(d).
Limitation on Beneficial Ownership
Dealer Person
Applicable Laws
minus
Ownership Limitation
Dealer's Beneficial Ownership
Section 13
Section 16
Dealer Group
(e) . Notwithstanding anything herein or in the Agreement to the contrary, in no event shall Issuer be required to deliver Shares in connection with the Transaction in excess of , subject to adjustment from time to time in accordance with the provisions of this Confirmation or the Definitions resulting from actions of Issuer or events within Issuer's control (the ""). Issuer represents and warrants to Dealer (which representation and warranty shall be deemed to be repeated on each day that the Transaction is outstanding) that the Capped Number is equal to or less than the number of authorized but unissued Shares of the Issuer that are not reserved for future issuance in connection with transactions in the Shares (other than the Transaction) on the date of the determination of the Capped Number (such Shares, the ""). In the event Issuer shall not have delivered the full number of Shares otherwise deliverable as a result of this Section 8(e) (the resulting deficit, the ""), Issuer shall be continually obligated to deliver, from time to time until the full
Limitations on Settlement by Issuer
2 x Number of Shares
Capped Number
Available Shares
Deficit Shares
 
number of Deficit Shares have been delivered pursuant to this paragraph, Shares when, and to the extent, that (i) Shares are repurchased, acquired or otherwise received by Issuer or any of its subsidiaries after the Trade Date (whether or not in exchange for cash, fair value or any other consideration), (ii) authorized and unissued Shares reserved for issuance in respect of other transactions prior to such date which prior to the relevant date become no longer so reserved and (iii) Issuer additionally authorizes any unissued Shares that are not reserved for other transactions. Issuer shall immediately notify Dealer of the occurrence of any of the foregoing events (including the number of Shares subject to clause (i), (ii) or (iii) and the corresponding number of Shares to be delivered) and promptly deliver such Shares thereafter.
(f) . Dealer may postpone any Exercise Date or Settlement Date or any other date of valuation or delivery by Dealer, with respect to some or all of the relevant Options (in which event the Calculation Agent shall make appropriate adjustments to the Number of Shares to be Delivered with respect to one or more Components), if Dealer determines, in its reasonable discretion, that such extension is reasonably necessary or appropriate to (i) preserve Dealer's hedging or hedge unwind activity hereunder in light of existing liquidity conditions in the cash market, the stock loan market or any other market in which Dealer, in the exercise of its commercially reasonable discretion, deems it advisable to hedge its exposure to the Transaction or (ii) to enable Dealer to effect purchases of Shares in connection with its hedging, hedge unwind or settlement activity hereunder in a manner that would, if Dealer were Issuer or an affiliated purchaser of Issuer, be in compliance with applicable legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements, or with related policies and procedures applicable to Dealer; that any such extension pursuant to clause (i) shall not exceed 30 Exchange Business Days.
Right to Extend
provided
(g) . Dealer acknowledges and agrees that this Confirmation is not intended to convey to it rights with respect to the Transaction that are senior to the claims of common stockholders in the event of Issuer's bankruptcy. For the avoidance of doubt, the parties agree that the preceding sentence shall not apply at any time other than during Issuer's bankruptcy to any claim arising as a result of a breach by Issuer of any of its obligations under this Confirmation or the Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, the parties acknowledge that this Confirmation is not secured by any collateral that would otherwise secure the obligations of Issuer herein under or pursuant to any other agreement.
Equity Rights
(h) . The following amendments shall be made to the Equity Definitions:
Amendments to Equity Definitions
(i) With respect to any Potential Adjustment Event, Section 11.2(a) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by deleting the words "a diluting or concentrative" and replacing them with the words "an"; and adding the phrase "or Warrants" at the end of the sentence.
(ii) The first sentence of Section 11.2(c) of the Equity Definitions, prior to clause (A) thereof, is hereby amended to read as follows: (c) If "Calculation Agent Adjustment" is specified as the Method of Adjustment in the related Confirmation of a Share Option Transaction, then following the announcement or occurrence of any Potential Adjustment Event, the Calculation Agent will determine whether such Potential Adjustment Event has an effect on the theoretical value of the relevant Shares or options on the Shares and, if so, will (i) make appropriate adjustment(s), if any, to any one or more of:' and, the portion of such sentence immediately preceding clause (ii) thereof is hereby amended by deleting the words "diluting or concentrative" and the words "(provided that no adjustments will be made to account solely for changes in volatility, expected dividends, stock loan rate or liquidity relative to the relevant Shares)" and replacing such latter phrase with the words "(provided that, solely in the case of Sections 11.2(e)(i), (ii)A), (iv) and (v), no adjustments will be made to account solely for changes in volatility, expected dividends, stock loan rate or liquidity relative to the relevant Shares but, for the avoidance of doubt, solely in the case of Sections 11.2(e)(ii)(B) through (D), (iii), (vi) and (vii), adjustments may be made to account solely for changes in volatility, expected dividends, stock loan rate or liquidity relative to the relevant Shares)";
(iii) Section 12.6(a)(ii) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by (1) deleting from the fourth line thereof the word "or" after the word "official" and inserting a comma therefor, and (2) deleting the semi-colon at the end of subsection (B) thereof and inserting the following words therefor "or (C) at Dealer's option, the occurrence of any of the events specified in Section 5(a)(vii) (1) through (9) of the ISDA Master Agreement with respect to that Issuer.";
(iv) Section 12.9(b)(iv) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by (A) deleting (1) subsection (A) in its entirety, (2) the phrase "or (B)" following subsection (A) and (3) the phrase "in each case" in subsection (B); and (B) deleting the phrase "neither the Non-Hedging Party nor the Lending Party lends Shares in the amount of the Hedging Shares or" in the penultimate sentence; and
 
(v) Section 12.9(b)(v) of the Equity Definitions is hereby amended by (A) adding the word "or" immediately before subsection "(B)" and deleting the comma at the end of subsection (A); and (B)(1) deleting subsection (C) in its entirety, (2) deleting the word "or" immediately preceding subsection (C) and (3) replacing in the penultimate sentence the words "either party" with "the Hedging Party" and (4) deleting clause (X) in the final sentence.
(i) . Dealer may transfer or assign its rights and obligations hereunder and under the Agreement, in whole or in part, at any time to any person or entity whatsoever without the consent of Issuer, subject to the restrictions set forth in the legend appearing at the top of this Confirmation. Dealer shall as soon as reasonably practicable notify Issuer of such transfer or assignment.
Transfer and Assignment
(j) . For the avoidance of doubt, whenever the Calculation Agent is called upon to make an adjustment pursuant to the terms of this Confirmation or the Definitions to take into account the effect of an event, the Calculation Agent shall make such adjustment by reference to the effect of such event on the Hedging Party, assuming that the Hedging Party maintains a commercially reasonable hedge position.
Adjustments
(k) . Effective from the date of commencement of discussions concerning the Transaction, Issuer and each of its employees, representatives, or other agents may disclose to any and all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure of the Transaction and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to Issuer relating to such tax treatment and tax structure.
Disclosure
(l) . Notwithstanding any other provision in this Confirmation to the contrary requiring or allowing Dealer to purchase, sell, receive or deliver any Shares or other securities to or from Issuer, Dealer may designate any of its affiliates to purchase, sell, receive or deliver such shares or other securities and otherwise to perform Dealer obligations in respect of the Transaction and any such designee may assume such obligations. Dealer shall be discharged of its obligations to Issuer to the extent of any such performance by any of its affiliates in accordance with the provisions of the immediately preceding sentence.
Designation by Dealer
(m) . The occurrence of any of the following shall constitute an Additional Termination Event with respect to which the Transaction shall be the sole Affected Transaction and Issuer shall be the sole Affected Party; that with respect to any Additional Termination Event, Dealer may choose to treat part of the Transaction as the sole Affected Transaction, and, upon the termination of the Affected Transaction, a Transaction with terms identical to those set forth herein except with a Number of Warrants equal to the unaffected number of Warrants shall be treated for all purposes as the Transaction, which shall remain in full force and effect:
Additional Termination Events
provided
(i) Dealer reasonably determines during the six month period immediately following the Effective Date (or, if the Issuer is not current in its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act, during the one year period immediately following the Effective Date) that it is advisable to terminate a portion of the Transaction so that Dealer's related hedging activities will comply with applicable securities laws, rules or regulations or related policies and procedures of Dealer (whether or not such requirements, policies or procedures are imposed by law or have been voluntarily adopted by Dealer);
(ii) any "person" or "group," other than Issuer, its Subsidiaries and the employee benefits plans of the Issuer and of its Subsidiaries, becomes the direct or indirect beneficial owner, of the shares of Issuer's Capital Stock representing more than 50% of the total voting power of the shares of Issuer's Capital Stock; or
(iii) consummation of any consolidation or merger of Issuer pursuant to which the Shares are or will be converted into cash, securities or other property or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of Issuer and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person other than one or more of the Issuer's Subsidiaries; , that if in any such transaction the holders of more than 50% of the shares of Issuer's voting stock immediately prior to such transaction, own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of all shares of the voting stock of the continuing or surviving person or transferee or the parent thereof immediately after such transaction, such event shall not constitute a Additional Termination Event under this clause (ii).
provided, however
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Additional Termination Event will not be deemed to have occurred if, pursuant to a transaction or series of transactions as set forth in clause (iii) above, at least 90% of the consideration received or to be received by holders of the Shares (excluding cash payments for fractional Shares and cash payments made pursuant to dissenters' appraisal rights) in connection with such transaction or transactions otherwise constituting an Additional Termination Event under clause (iii) above consists of shares of common stock or depositary receipts evidencing interests in ordinary shares or common equity traded on a National Securities Exchange, and as a result of such transaction or transactions, the Convertible Securities become convertible into cash and, if applicable, such shares of common stock or depositary receipts.
For purposes of clauses (ii) and (iii) above:
(i) whether a person is a "beneficial owner" will be determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;
(ii) "person" includes any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a "person" under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act;
(iii) any transaction or event that satisfies both clause (ii) and clause (ii) above will be deemed to be an event satisfying solely clause (iii) above;
(iv) "Subsidiary" means a Person more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by Issuer or by one or more other Subsidiaries of Issuer, or by Issuer and one or more other Subsidiaries of Issuer;
(v) "National Securities Exchange" means a securities exchange registered as a national securities exchange under Section 6(a) of the Exchange Act (or any successor thereto); and
(vi) "Capital Stock" means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) stock issued by that corporation.
(n) . Each party waives any and all rights it may have to set off obligations arising under the Agreement and the Transaction against other obligations between the parties, whether arising under any other agreement, applicable law or otherwise.
No Netting and Set-off
(o) . If, prior to the Effective Date, Dealer reasonably determines that it is advisable to cancel the Transaction because of concerns that Dealer's related hedging activities could be viewed as not complying with applicable securities laws, rules or regulations, the Transaction shall be cancelled and shall not become effective, and neither party shall have any obligation to the other party in respect of the Transaction.
Effectiveness
(p) . For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Confirmation shall be interpreted as requiring Issuer to deliver cash in respect of the settlement of the Transaction, except in circumstances where the required cash settlement thereof is permitted for classification of the contract as equity by the US GAAP as in effect on the relevant Trade Date (including, without limitation, where Issuer so elects to deliver cash or fails timely to elect to deliver Shares or Share Termination Delivery Property in respect of such settlement).
Delivery of Cash
(q) . The parties hereby agree that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the Definitions or in the Agreement, following the payment of the Premium, in the event that an Early Termination Date (whether as a result of an Event of Default or a Termination Event) occurs or is designated with respect to the Transaction or the Transaction is terminated or cancelled pursuant to Article 12 of the Equity Definitions and, as a result, Dealer would owe to Issuer an amount calculated under Section 6(e) of the Agreement or Article 12 of the Equity Definitions, such amount shall be deemed to be zero
Payments by Dealer upon Early Termination
(r) .
Waiver of Trial by Jury
EACH OF ISSUER AND BUYER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES (ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ON BEHALF OF ITS STOCKHOLDERS) ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE TRANSACTION OR THE ACTIONS OF BUYER OR ITS AFFILIATES IN THE NEGOTIATION, PERFORMANCE OR ENFORCEMENT HEREOF.
 
(s) .
Governing Law; Jurisdiction
THIS CONFIRMATION AND ANY CLAIM, CONTROVERSY OR DISPUTE ARISING UNDER OR RELATED TO THIS CONFIRMATION SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY SUBMIT TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND THE UNITED STATES COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK IN CONNECTION WITH ALL MATTERS RELATING HERETO AND WAIVE ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE IN, AND ANY CLAIM OF INCONVENIENT FORUM WITH RESPECT TO, THESE COURTS.
 
Issuer hereby agrees (a) to check this Confirmation carefully and immediately upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified and (b) to confirm that the foregoing (in the exact form provided by Dealer) correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between Dealer and Issuer with respect to the Transaction, by manually signing this Confirmation or this page hereof as evidence of agreement to such terms and providing the other information requested herein and immediately returning an executed copy to [], Facsimile No. [].
                    
                    
 
 
 
Annex A
For each Component of the Transaction, the Number of Warrants and Expiration Date is set forth below.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
David Havlek
salesforce.com
Investor Relations
415-536-2171
dhavlek@salesforce.com
Jane Hynes
salesforce.com
Public Relations
415-901-5079
jhynes@salesforce.com
Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM), the enterprise cloud computing company, today announced the closing of its private placement of $575 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2015 (which includes $75 million aggregate principal amount of the notes issued in connection with the exercise by the initial purchasers of their overallotment option).
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif.  January 19, 2010 
The notes will be unsecured, unsubordinated obligations of salesforce.com, and interest will be payable semi-annually at a rate of 0.75% per year. The initial conversion rate is 11.7147 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $85.36 per share). Prior to October 15, 2014, the notes will be convertible only upon the occurrence of specified events; thereafter until maturity the notes will be convertible at any time. Upon conversion, the notes will be settled in cash and shares of salesforce.com's common stock (subject to salesforce.com's right to pay cash in lieu of all or any portion of such shares). BofA Merrill Lynch acted as sole book running manager with respect to the offering of the notes.
In connection with the offering of the notes, salesforce.com entered into privately-negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with three financial institutions (the "hedge counterparties"). Salesforce.com also entered into privately-negotiated warrant transactions with the hedge counterparties. The strike price of the warrant transactions will initially be approximately $119.51 per share, which is 175% of the closing sale price of salesforce.com's common stock on January 12, 2010. Taken together, the convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions are expected, but not guaranteed, to reduce the potential dilution to salesforce.com's common stock upon the conversion of the notes.
Salesforce.com used a portion of the net proceeds for the cost of the convertible note hedge transactions after such cost was offset in part by the proceeds of the warrant
transactions described above, and expects to use the remaining proceeds for general corporate purposes, including funding possible investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, joint ventures, services or technologies, working capital and capital expenditures.
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any of these securities and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation, or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation, or sale is unlawful. The notes and the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the notes, if any, will not be registered under the Act or any state securities laws, and unless so registered, may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Act and applicable state laws.
About salesforce.com
Salesforce.com is the enterprise cloud computing company. The company's portfolio of Salesforce CRM applications, available at , has revolutionized the ways that companies collaborate and communicate with their customers across sales, marketing and service. The company's Force.com platform () helps customers, partners and developers to quickly build powerful business applications to run every part of the enterprise in the cloud. Based on salesforce.com's real-time, multitenant architecture, Salesforce CRM and Force.com offer the fastest path to customer success with cloud computing.
http://www.salesforce.com/products/
http://www.salesforce.com/platform/
As of October 31, 2009, salesforce.com manages customer information for approximately 67,900 customers including Allianz Commercial, Dell, Dow Jones Newswires, Japan Post, Kaiser Permanente, KONE, and SunTrust Banks. Any unreleased services or features referenced in this or other press releases or public statements are not currently available and may not be delivered on time or at all. Customers who purchase salesforce.com applications should make their purchase decisions based upon features that are currently available. Salesforce.com has headquarters in San Francisco, with offices in Europe and Asia, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CRM". For more information please visit , or call 1-800-NO-SOFTWARE.
http://www.salesforce.com
###
Copyright (c) 2009 salesforce.com, inc. All rights reserved. Salesforce and the "no software" logo are registered trademarks of salesforce.com, inc., and salesforce.com owns other registered and unregistered trademarks. Other names used herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.


