FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20110114170057.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On January 10, 2011, the Board of Directors of salesforce.com, inc. (the "Company") amended its 2006 Inducement Equity Incentive Plan (the "2006 Plan") to increase the number of shares of its common stock reserved for issuance under the plan by an additional 300,000 shares. The 2006 Plan reserves shares of our common stock solely for the granting of inducement stock options and other awards. Currently, the Compensation Committee administers the 2006 Plan, including approving grants under the plan. The 2006 Plan was adopted in April 2006 and amended in March 2009 without stockholder approval in reliance on the "employment inducement exemption" provided under Rule 303A.08 of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual.
The foregoing description of the 2006 Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2006 Plan, a copy of which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On January 10, 2011, the Board of Directors adopted the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Restated Bylaws") to implement majority voting for the election of directors in uncontested elections. The Restated Bylaws include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing description of the Restated Bylaws does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Restated Bylaws, a copy of which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 3.1.
As part of the implementation of majority voting for the election of directors in uncontested elections, the Company amended its Corporate Governance Guidelines to provide, among other things, that with respect to director nominations, the Board will only nominate those directors who agree to tender, promptly following the stockholders' meeting at which they are elected or reelected as director, irrevocable resignations that will be effective upon the failure of such director nominee to receive the required vote for reelection and Board acceptance of such resignation. An updated version of the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines will be available on the Company's website at http://www.salesforce.com/company/investor/governance/.
Item  9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
1.1 . All meetings of stockholders of salesforce.com, inc. (the "Corporation") shall be held at such place within or without the State of Delaware as may be designated from time to time by the board of directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors") or the Chief Executive Officer.
Place of Meetings
1.2 . The annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting shall be held on a date to be fixed by the Board of Directors at the time and place to be fixed by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting.
Annual Meeting
1.3 . Special meetings of stockholders may be called at any time by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, for any purpose or purposes prescribed in the notice of the meeting and shall be held at such place, on such date and at such time as the Board may fix. Business transacted at any special meeting of stockholders shall be confined to the purpose or purposes stated in the notice of meeting.
Special Meetings
1.4 . Written notice of each meeting of stockholders, whether annual or special, shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date on which the meeting is to be held, to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting, except as otherwise provided herein or as required by law (meaning here and hereafter, as required from time to time by the Delaware General Corporation Law) or the Certificate of Incorporation. The notices of all meetings shall state the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting, the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting. The notice of a special meeting shall state, in addition, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. If mailed, notice is given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
Notice of Meetings
1.5 . The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare, at least ten (10) days before each meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, the Corporation's principal place of business. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time of the meeting, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. This list shall determine the identity of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting and the number of shares held by each of them.
Voting List
1.6 . Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of the capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at the meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If a quorum shall fail to attend any meeting, the Chairman of the meeting or the
Quorum
holders of a majority of the shares of capital stock entitled to vote who are present, in person or by proxy, may adjourn the meeting to another place, if any, date or time, or with another means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting.
If a notice of any adjourned special meeting of stockholders is sent to all stockholders entitled to vote thereat, stating that it will be held with those present at such adjourned meeting constituting a quorum, then except as otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, those present at such adjourned meeting shall constitute a quorum, and all matters shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast at such meeting.
1.7 . Any meeting of stockholders may be adjourned to any other place, if any, date or time at which a meeting of stockholders may be held under these Bylaws, or with any other means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, by the Chairman of the meeting or, in the absence of such person, by any officer entitled to preside at or to act as Secretary of such meeting, or by the holders of a majority of the shares of stock present or represented at the meeting and entitled to vote, although less than a quorum. When a meeting is adjourned to another place, if any, date or time, or with another means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, written notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the place, if any, date and time thereof and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken; provided, however, that if the date of any adjourned meeting is more than thirty (30) days after the date for which the meeting was originally noticed, or if a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, written notice of the place, if any, date and time of the adjourned meeting, and the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting, shall be given in conformity herewith. At the adjourned meeting, the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
Adjournments
1.8 . Each stockholder shall have one vote for each share of stock entitled to vote held of record by such stockholder and a proportionate vote for each fractional share so held, unless otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation. Each stockholder of record entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may vote in person or may authorize any other person or persons to vote or act for him by written proxy executed by the stockholder or his or her authorized agent or by a transmission permitted by law or the Certificate of Incorporation and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. No stockholder may authorize more than one proxy for his or her shares. Any copy, facsimile or other electronic transmission or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission created pursuant to this Section may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile or other electronic transmission or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
Voting and Proxies
1.9 . When a quorum is present at any meeting, all matters shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast affirmatively or negatively on the matter (or if there are two or more classes of stock entitled to vote as separate classes, then in the case of each such class, a majority of each such class present or represented and voting affirmatively or negatively on the matter shall decide such matter), except when a different vote is required by express provision of law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
Action at Meeting
 
All voting, including on the election of directors, but excepting where otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, may be by a voice vote; provided, however, that upon demand therefor by a stockholder entitled to vote or his or her proxy, a stock vote shall be taken. Every stock vote shall be taken by ballot, each of which shall state the name of the stockholder or proxy voting and such other information as may be required under the procedure established for the meeting. Every vote taken by ballot shall be counted by an inspector or inspectors appointed by the Chairman of the meeting. The Corporation may, and to the extent required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. The Corporation may designate one or more persons as an alternate inspector to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting may, and to the extent required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, shall, appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to faithfully execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability.
1.10 .
Advance Notice of Stockholder Business
(a) At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be brought: (1) pursuant to the Corporation's proxy materials with respect to such meeting, (2) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (3) by a stockholder of the Corporation who (A) is a stockholder of record at the time of the giving of the notice required by this 1.10(a) and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the annual meeting and (B) has timely complied in proper written form with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.10(a). In addition, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action pursuant to these Bylaws, the Certificate of Incorporation or applicable laws.
(i) To comply with clause (3)(B) of Section 1.10(a) above, a stockholder's notice must set forth all information required under this Section 1.10(a) and must be timely received by the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the 45th day nor earlier than the 75th day before the one-year anniversary of the date on which the Corporation first mailed its proxy materials or a notice of availability of proxy materials (whichever is earlier) for the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that no annual meeting was held in the previous year or if the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 60 days after the one-year anniversary of the date of the previous year's annual meeting, then, for notice by the stockholder to be timely, it must be so received by the Secretary not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of (x) the 90th day prior to such annual meeting, or (y) the tenth day following the day on which Public Announcement (as defined below) of the date of such annual meeting is first made. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described in this Section 1.10(a)(i). "Public Announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or a comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor thereto (the "1934 Act").
 
(ii) To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary of the Corporation must set forth as to each matter of business the stockholder intends to bring before the annual meeting: (1) a brief description of the business intended to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (2) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business and any Stockholder Associated Person (as defined below), (3) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are held of record or are beneficially owned by the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person and any derivative positions held or beneficially held by the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person, (4) whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person with respect to any securities of the corporation, and a description of any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares), the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, or to manage the risk or benefit from share price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person with respect to any securities of the Corporation, (5) any material interest of the stockholder or a Stockholder Associated Person in such business, and (6) a statement whether either such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person will deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's voting shares required under applicable law to carry the proposal (such information provided and statements made as required by clauses (1) through (6), a "Business Solicitation Statement"). In addition, to be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be supplemented not later than ten days following the record date to disclose the information contained in clauses (3) and (4) above as of the record date. A "Stockholder Associated Person" of any stockholder shall mean (A) any person controlling, directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with, such stockholder, (B) any beneficial owner of shares of stock of the Corporation owned of record or beneficially by such stockholder and on whose behalf the proposal or nomination, as the case may be, is being made, or (C) any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such person referred to in the preceding clauses (A) and (B).
(iii) Without exception, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section 1.10(a) and, if applicable, Section 2.15(a) below. In addition, business proposed to be brought by a stockholder may not be brought before the annual meeting if such stockholder or a Stockholder Associated Person, as applicable, takes action contrary to the representations made in the Business Solicitation Statement applicable to such business or if the Business Solicitation Statement applicable to such business contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. The Chairman of the annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the annual meeting that any proposed item of business was not properly brought before the annual meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 1.10(a), and, if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare at the annual meeting that any such business not properly brought before the annual meeting shall not be transacted.
(b) In addition to the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.10, a stockholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of law and of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 1.10, including, with respect to business such stockholder intends to bring before the annual meeting that involves a proposal that such stockholder requests to be included in the Corporation's proxy statement, the requirements of Rule 14a-8 (or any successor provision) under the 1934 Act. Nothing in this Section 1.10 shall be deemed to affect any right of the Corporation to omit a proposal from the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 (or any successor provision) under the 1934 Act.
 
1.11 . At every meeting of the stockholders, the Chairman of the Board, or, in his or her absence, the Chief Executive Officer, or, in his or her absence, such other person as may be appointed by the Board of Directors, shall act as Chairman of the meeting. The Secretary of the Corporation or a person designated by the Chairman of the meeting shall act as Secretary of the meeting. Unless otherwise approved by the Chairman of the meeting, attendance at the stockholders' meeting is restricted to stockholders of record, persons authorized in accordance with Section 1.8 of these Bylaws to act by proxy, and officers of the Corporation.
Conduct of Business
The Chairman of the meeting shall call the meeting to order, establish the agenda, and conduct the business of the meeting in accordance therewith or, at the Chairman's discretion, it may be conducted otherwise in accordance with the wishes of the stockholders in attendance. The date and time of the opening and closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at the meeting shall be announced at the meeting.
The Chairman shall also conduct the meeting in an orderly manner, rule on the precedence of, and procedure on, motions and other procedural matters, and exercise discretion with respect to such procedural matters with fairness and good faith toward all those entitled to take part. The Chairman may impose reasonable limits on the amount of time taken up at the meeting on discussion in general or on remarks by any one stockholder. Should any person in attendance become unruly or obstruct the meeting proceedings, the Chairman shall have the power to have such person removed from participation. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at a meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.11 and Section 1.10 above. The Chairman of a meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the meeting that any proposed item of business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 1.11 and Section 1.10, and if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare at the meeting that any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
1.12 . Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series of preferred stock or any other class of stock or series thereof having a preference over the common stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such stockholders.
Stockholder Action Without Meeting
1.13 . If authorized by the Board of Directors, and subject to such guidelines and procedures as the Board may adopt, stockholders and proxy holders not physically present at a meeting of stockholders may, by means of remote communication, participate in the meeting and be deemed present in person and vote at the meeting, whether such meeting is to be held at a designated place or solely by means of remote communication, provided that (i) the Corporation shall implement reasonable measures to verify that each person deemed present and permitted to vote at the meeting by means of remote communication is a stockholder or proxy holder, (ii) the Corporation shall implement reasonable measures to provide such stockholders and proxy holders a reasonable opportunity to participate in the meeting and to vote on matters submitted to the stockholders, including an opportunity to read or hear the proceedings of the meeting substantially concurrently with such proceedings, and (iii) if any stockholder or proxy holder votes or takes other action at the meeting by means of remote communication, the Corporation shall maintain a record of such vote.
Meetings by Remote Communication
 
2.1 . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors, who may exercise all of the powers of the Corporation except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation. In the event of a vacancy in the Board of Directors, the remaining directors, except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, may exercise the powers of the full Board until the vacancy is filled.
General Powers
2.2 . The number of directors shall initially be seven (7) and, thereafter, shall be fixed from time to time exclusively by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors (whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships at the time any such resolution is presented to the Board for adoption). The directors are divided into three classes, with the term of office of the first class to expire at the first annual meeting of stockholders held after the date of the closing of the Corporation's initial public offering of its common stock (the "Effective Date"); the term of office of the second class to expire at the second annual meeting of stockholders held after the Effective Date; the term of office of the third class to expire at the third annual meeting of stockholders held after the Effective Date; and thereafter for each such term to expire at each third succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after such election. All directors shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which elected and until their respective successors are elected, except in the case of the death, resignation or removal of any director.
Number and Term of Office
A nominee for director shall be elected to the Board of Directors if the votes cast for such nominee's election exceed the votes cast against such nominee's election; provided, however, that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of the shares present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote on the election of directors at any meeting of stockholders for which, as of the date that is ten (10) calendar days in advance of the date the Corporation files its definitive proxy statement (regardless of whether thereafter revised or supplemented) for such meeting with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected at the meeting.
If a nominee for director fails to receive the required number of votes for reelection, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall then make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject such director's resignation as previously tendered pursuant to the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines or whether other action should be taken. Thereafter, the Board of Directors will act on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation. Within 90 days from the date the election results are certified, the Corporation will publicly disclose the Board of Directors' decision and the rationale behind such decision.
2.3 . Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series of preferred stock or any other class of stock or series thereof having a preference over the common stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or any vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or other cause (including removal from office by a vote of the stockholders) may be filled only by a majority vote of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of office of the class to which they have been elected expires and until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships
 
2.4 . Any director may resign by delivering notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or Secretary. Such resignation shall be effective upon receipt unless it is specified to be effective at some later time or upon the happening of some other event. A resignation which is conditioned upon the director failing to receive a specified vote for reelection as a director may provide that it is irrevocable. Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, when one or more directors resign from the Board of Directors, effective at a future date, a majority of the directors then in office, including those who have so resigned, shall have power to fill such vacancy or vacancies, the vote thereon to take effect when such resignation or resignations shall become effective.
Resignation
2.5 . Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series of preferred stock or any other class of stock or series thereof having a preference over the common stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, any directors, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause, by the affirmative vote of the holders of sixty six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. Vacancies in the Board of Directors resulting from such removal may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of office of the class to which they have been elected expires and until their respective successors shall have been duly elected and qualified.
Removal
2.6 . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors; provided that any director who is absent when such a determination is made shall be given notice of the determination. A regular meeting of the Board of Directors may be held without notice immediately after and at the same place as the annual meeting of stockholders.
Regular Meetings
2.7 . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or two or more directors and may be held at any time and place, within or without the State of Delaware.
Special Meetings
2.8 . Notice of any special meeting of directors shall be given to each director by the Secretary or by the officer or one of the directors calling the meeting. Notice shall be duly given to each director by (i) giving notice to such director in person or by telephone, electronic transmission or voice message system at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting, (ii) sending a facsimile, or delivering written notice by hand, to his or her last known business or home address at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting, or (iii) mailing written notice to his or her last known business or home address at least three (3) days in advance of the meeting. A notice or waiver of notice of a meeting of the Board of Directors need not specify the purposes of the meeting. Unless otherwise indicated in the notice thereof, any and all business may be transacted at a special meeting.
Notice of Special Meetings
2.9 . Directors or any members of any committee designated by the directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Participation in Meetings by Telephone Conference Calls or Other Methods of Communication
 
2.10 . A majority of the total number of authorized directors shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of the Board of Directors. In the event one or more of the directors shall be disqualified to vote at any meeting, then the required quorum shall be reduced by one for each such director so disqualified; provided, however, that in no case shall less than 1/3 of the number so fixed constitute a quorum. A meeting at which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact business notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors, if any action taken is approved by at least a majority of the required quorum for that meeting. In the absence of a quorum at any such meeting, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present. Interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or at a meeting of a committee which authorizes a particular contract or transaction.
Quorum
2.11 . At any meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum is present, the vote of a majority of those present shall be sufficient to take any action, unless a different vote is specified by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
Action at Meeting
2.12 . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent to the action in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writings or electronic transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee. Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form.
Action by Written Consent
2.13 . The Board of Directors may designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation, with such lawfully delegated powers and duties as it therefor confers, to serve at the pleasure of the Board. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members of the committee present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he, she or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors and subject to the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Each such committee shall keep minutes and make such reports as the Board of Directors may from time to time request. Except as the Board of Directors may otherwise determine, any committee may make rules for the conduct of its business, but unless otherwise provided by such rules, its business shall be conducted as nearly as possible in the same manner as is provided in these Bylaws for the Board of Directors.
Committees
2.14 . Directors may be paid such compensation for their services and such reimbursement for expenses of attendance at meetings as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation or any of its parent or subsidiary corporations in any other capacity and receiving compensation for such service.
Compensation of Directors
2.15 .
Nomination of Director Candidates
 
(a) . Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.15(a) shall be eligible for election or re-election as directors at an annual meeting of stockholders. Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series of preferred stock or any other class of stock or series thereof having a preference over the common stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nominations of persons for election or re-election as directors at an annual meeting may be made only (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (2) by a stockholder of the Corporation who (A) was a stockholder of record at the time of the giving of the notice required by this Section 2.15(a) and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the annual meeting and (B) has timely complied in proper written form with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.15(a).
Advance Notice of Director Nominations at Annual Meetings
(i) To comply with clause (2)(B) of Section 2.15(a) above, a nomination to be made by a stockholder must set forth all information required under this Section 2.15(a) and must be received by the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation at the time set forth in, and in accordance with, the final three sentences of Section 1.10(a)(i) above.
(ii) To be in proper written form, such stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth:
(1) as to each person (a "nominee") whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director: (A) the name, age, business address and residence address of the nominee, (B) the principal occupation or employment of the nominee, (C) the class and number of shares of the Corporation that are held of record or are beneficially owned by the nominee and any derivative positions held or beneficially held by the nominee, (D) whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of the nominee with respect to any securities of the Corporation, and a description of any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares), the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, or to manage the risk or benefit of share price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of the nominee, (E) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nominations are to be made by the stockholder, (F) a written statement executed by the nominee acknowledging that as a director of the Corporation, the nominee will owe a fiduciary duty under Delaware law with respect to the Corporation and its stockholders, and (G) any other information relating to the nominee that would be required to be disclosed about such nominee if proxies were being solicited for the election of the nominee as a director, or that is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the 1934 Act (including without limitation the nominee's written consent to being named in the proxy statement, if any, as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and
(2) as to such stockholder giving notice, (A) the information required to be provided pursuant to clauses (2) through (5) of Section 1.10(a)(ii) above, and the supplement referenced in the second sentence of Section 1.10(a)(ii) above (except that the references to "business" in such clauses shall instead refer to nominations of directors for purposes of this paragraph), and (B) a statement whether either such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person will deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of a number of the Corporation's voting shares reasonably believed by such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person to be necessary to elect such nominee(s) (such information provided and statements made as required by clauses (A) and (B) above, a "Nominee Solicitation Statement").
(iii) At the request of the Board of Directors, any person nominated by a stockholder for election as a director must furnish to the Secretary of the Corporation (1) that information required to be set forth in the stockholder's notice of nomination of such person as a director as of a date subsequent to
 
the date on which the notice of such person's nomination was given and (2) such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee; in the absence of the furnishing of such information if requested, such stockholder's nomination shall not be considered in proper form pursuant to this Section 2.15(a).
(iv) Without exception, no person shall be eligible for election or re-election as a director of the Corporation at an annual meeting of stockholders unless nominated in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section 2.15(a). In addition, a nominee shall not be eligible for election or re-election if a stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person, as applicable, takes action contrary to the representations made in the Nominee Solicitation Statement applicable to such nominee or if the Nominee Solicitation Statement applicable to such nominee contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. The Chairman of the annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the annual meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.15(a), and if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare at the annual meeting, and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
(b) . For a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to Section 1.3 above, nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors shall be made only (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (2) by any stockholder of the corporation who (A) is a stockholder of record at the time of the giving of the notice required by this Section 2.15(b) and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the special meeting and (B) delivers a timely written notice of the nomination to the Secretary of the Corporation that includes the information set forth in Sections 2.15(a)(ii) and (a)(iii) above. To be timely, such notice must be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which Public Announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the board of directors to be elected at such meeting. A person shall not be eligible for election or re-election as a director at a special meeting unless the person is nominated (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by a stockholder in accordance with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.15(b). In addition, a nominee shall not be eligible for election or re-election if a stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person, as applicable, takes action contrary to the representations made in the Nominee Solicitation Statement applicable to such nominee or if the Nominee Solicitation Statement applicable to such nominee contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. The Chairman of the special meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the special meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.15(b), and if he or she should so determine, he or she shall so declare at the annual meeting, and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
Advance Notice of Director Nominations for Special Meetings
(c) In addition to the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.15, a stockholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of state law and of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 2.15. Nothing in this Section 2.15 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 (or any successor provision) under the 1934 Act.
(d) Only persons nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.15 shall be eligible to serve as directors. Except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, the Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (a) to determine whether a nomination was made
 
in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.15 and (b) if any proposed nomination was not made in compliance with this Section 2.15, to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded.
3.1 . The officers of the Corporation shall consist of a Chief Executive Officer, one or more Presidents, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer, a Treasurer and such other officers with such other titles as the Board of Directors shall determine, including, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, a Chairman of the Board, and one or more Vice Presidents and Assistant Secretaries. The Board of Directors may appoint such other officers as it may deem appropriate.
Enumeration
3.2 . Officers shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at its first meeting following the annual meeting of stockholders. Officers may be appointed by the Board of Directors at any other meeting.
Election
3.3 . No officer need be a stockholder. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Qualification
3.4 . Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, each officer shall hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified, unless a different term is specified in the vote appointing him, or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.
Tenure
3.5 . Any officer may resign by delivering his or her written resignation to the Corporation at its principal office or to the Chief Executive Officer or Secretary. Such resignation shall be effective upon receipt unless it is specified to be effective at some other time or upon the happening of some other event. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the Board of Directors.
Resignation and Removal
3.6 . The Board of Directors may appoint a Chairman of the Board. If the Board of Directors appoints a Chairman of the Board, he or she shall perform such duties and possess such powers as are assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors. Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, he or she shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders, and, if he or she is a director, at all meetings of the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board
3.7 . The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, have responsibility for the general management and control of the business and affairs of the Corporation and shall perform all duties and have all powers which are commonly incident to the office of Chief Executive Office or which are delegated to him or her by the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall, in the Chairman of the Board's absence or because of the Chairman of the Board's inability to act, perform all duties of the Chairman of the Board and preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of stockholders. The Chief Executive Officer shall have the power to act as the President of the Corporation for any action that is required to be performed by a president of a corporation under the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Certificate of Incorporation or other applicable law. The Chief Executive Officer shall perform such other duties and shall have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. He or she shall have power to sign stock certificates, contracts and other instruments of the Corporation which are authorized and shall have general
Chief Executive Officer
 
supervision and direction of all of the other officers, employees and agents of the Corporation, other than the Chairman of the Board.
3.8 . Any President shall perform such duties and possess such powers as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time prescribe. In the event of the absence, inability or refusal to act of the Chief Executive Officer, the President (or if there shall be more than one, the Presidents in the order determined by the Board of Directors), or any other person as determined by the Board of Directors, shall perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer and when so performing shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chief Executive Officer.
Presidents
3.9 . Any Vice President shall perform such duties and possess such powers as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time prescribe. In the event of the absence, inability or refusal to act of the President, the Vice President (or if there shall be more than one, the Vice Presidents in the order determined by the Board of Directors) shall perform the duties of the President and when so performing shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President. The Board of Directors may assign to any Vice President the title of Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President or any other title selected by the Board of Directors.
Vice Presidents
3.10 . The Secretary shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time prescribe. In addition, the Secretary shall perform such duties and have such powers as are incident to the office of the Secretary, including, without limitation, the duty and power to give notices of all meetings of stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, to keep a record of the proceedings of all meetings of stockholders and the Board of Directors, to maintain a stock ledger and prepare lists of stockholders and their addresses as required, to be custodian of corporate records and the corporate seal and to affix and attest to the same on documents.
Secretary and Assistant Secretaries
Any Assistant Secretary shall perform such duties and possess such powers as the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Secretary may from time to time prescribe. In the event of the absence, inability or refusal to act of the Secretary, the Assistant Secretary (or if there shall be more than one, the Assistant Secretaries in the order determined by the Board of Directors) shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Secretary.
In the absence of the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary at any meeting of stockholders or directors, the person presiding at the meeting shall designate a temporary secretary to keep a record of the meeting.
3.11 . Unless otherwise designated by the Board of Directors, the Chief Financial Officer shall be the Treasurer. The Chief Financial Officer shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as may from time to time be assigned to him by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. In addition, the Chief Financial Officer shall perform such duties and have such powers as are incident to the office of chief financial officer, including without limitation, the duty and power to keep and be responsible for all funds and securities of the Corporation, to maintain the financial records of the Corporation, to deposit funds of the Corporation in depositories as authorized, to disburse such funds as authorized, to make proper accounts of such funds, and to render as required by the Board of Directors accounts of all such transactions and of the financial condition of the Corporation.
Chief Financial Officer
 
3.12 . Officers of the Corporation shall be entitled to such salaries, compensation or reimbursement as shall be fixed or allowed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Salaries
3.13 . The Board of Directors may from time to time delegate the powers or duties of any officer to any other officers or agents, notwithstanding any provision hereof.
Delegation of Authority
4.1 . Unless otherwise voted by the stockholders and subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, the whole or any part of any unissued balance of the authorized capital stock of the Corporation or the whole or any part of any unissued balance of the authorized capital stock of the Corporation held in its treasury may be issued, sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of by vote of the Board of Directors in such manner, for such consideration and on such terms as the Board of Directors may determine.
Issuance of Stock
4.2 . The shares of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the Corporation's stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Every holder of stock of the Corporation represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate, in such form as may be prescribed by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation and by the Board of Directors, certifying the number and class of shares owned by him or her in the Corporation. Each such certificate shall be signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by, the Chairman or Vice Chairman, if any, of the Board of Directors, or a President or a Vice President, and the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile.
Certificates of Stock
Shares of stock which are subject to any restriction on transfer pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, applicable securities laws or any agreement among any number of shareholders or among such holders and the Corporation shall (i) in the case of stock that is certificated, have conspicuously noted on the face or back of the certificate either the full text of the restriction or a statement of the existence of such restriction, and (ii) in the case that stock that is uncertificated, have such restrictions on transfer implemented in accordance with applicable law, rules and regulations.
4.3 . Except as otherwise established by rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Directors, and subject to applicable law, shares of stock may be transferred on the books of the Corporation by the record holder of such stock or by his or her attorney lawfully constituted in writing and, if such stock is certificated, upon the surrender to the Corporation or its transfer agent of the certificate representing such shares properly endorsed or accompanied by a written assignment or power of attorney properly executed, and with such proof of authority or authenticity of signature as the Corporation or its transfer agent may reasonably require. Except as may be otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the Corporation shall be entitled to treat the record holder of stock as shown on its books as the owner of such stock for all purposes, including the payment of dividends and the right to vote with respect to such stock, regardless of any transfer, pledge or other disposition of such stock until the shares have been transferred on the books of the Corporation in accordance with the requirements of these Bylaws.
Transfers
 
4.4 . The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in place of any previously issued certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed, upon such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors may prescribe, including the presentation of reasonable evidence of such loss, theft or destruction and the giving of such indemnity as the Board of Directors may require for the protection of the Corporation or any transfer agent or registrar.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
4.5 . The Board of Directors may fix in advance a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights in respect of any change, concession or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action. Such record date shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action to which such record date relates.
Record Date
If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day before the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day before the day on which the meeting is held. The record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating to such purpose.
A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
5.1 . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be as fixed by the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
5.2 . The corporate seal shall be in such form as shall be approved by the Board of Directors.
Corporate Seal
5.3 . Whenever any notice whatsoever is required to be given by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a waiver of such notice either in writing signed by the person entitled to such notice or such person's duly authorized attorney, or by electronic transmission or any other method permitted under the Delaware General Corporation Law, whether before, at or after the time stated in such waiver, or the appearance of such person or persons at such meeting in person or by proxy, shall be deemed equivalent to such notice.
Waiver of Notice
5.4 . Except as the Board of Directors may otherwise designate, the Chief Executive Officer or President or any officer of the Corporation authorized by the Chief Executive Officer or President shall have the power to vote and otherwise act on behalf of the Corporation, in person or proxy, and may waive notice of, and act as, or appoint any person or persons to act as, proxy or attorney-in-fact to this Corporation (with or without power of substitution) at any meeting of stockholders or shareholders (or with respect to any action of stockholders) of any other corporation or organization, the securities of which may be held by this Corporation and otherwise to exercise any and all rights and powers which this Corporation may possess by reason of this Corporation's ownership of securities in such other corporation or other organization.
Actions with Respect to Securities of Other Corporations
 
5.5 . A certificate by the Secretary, or an Assistant Secretary, or a temporary Secretary, as to any action taken by the stockholders, directors, a committee or any officer or representative of the Corporation shall as to all persons who rely on the certificate in good faith be conclusive evidence of such action.
Evidence of Authority
5.6 . All references in these Bylaws to the Certificate of Incorporation shall be deemed to refer to the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended and in effect from time to time.
Certificate of Incorporation
5.7 . Any determination that any provision of these Bylaws is for any reason inapplicable, illegal or ineffective shall not affect or invalidate any other provision of these Bylaws.
Severability
5.8 . All pronouns used in these Bylaws shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine or neuter, singular or plural, as the identity of the person or persons may require.
Pronouns
5.9 . Except as otherwise specifically provided herein or required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, all notices required to be given to any stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent shall be in writing and may in every instance be effectively given by hand delivery to the recipient thereof, by depositing such notice in the mails, postage paid, or by sending such notice by facsimile or other electronic transmission in the manner provided in Section 232 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or by commercial courier service. Any such notice shall be addressed to such stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent at his or her last known address as the same appears on the books of the Corporation. The time when such notice shall be deemed to be given shall be the time such notice is received by such stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent, or by any person accepting such notice on behalf of such person, if delivered by hand, facsimile, other electronic transmission or commercial courier service, or the time such notice is dispatched, if delivered through the mails.
Notices
5.10 . Each director, each member of any committee designated by the Board of Directors, and each officer of the Corporation shall, in the performance of his or her duties, be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the books of account or other records of the Corporation, including reports made to the Corporation by any of its officers, by an independent certified public accountant, or by an appraiser selected with reasonable care.
Reliance Upon Books, Reports and Records
5.11 . In applying any provision of these Bylaws which require that an act be done or not done a specified number of days prior to an event or that an act be done during a period of a specified number of days prior to an event, calendar days shall be used, the day of the doing of the act shall be excluded, and the day of the event shall be included.
Time Periods
5.12 . In addition to the provisions for use of facsimile signatures elsewhere specifically authorized in these Bylaws, facsimile signatures of any officer or officers of the Corporation may be used whenever and as authorized by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof.
Facsimile Signatures
 
6.1 . Except as is otherwise set forth in these Bylaws, these Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed or new Bylaws may be adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum is present.
By the Board of Directors
6.2 . Except as otherwise set forth in these Bylaws, these Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed or new Bylaws may be adopted by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least sixty six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the shares of the capital stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at any annual meeting of stockholders, or at any special meeting of stockholders, provided notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new Bylaws shall have been stated in the notice of such special meeting.
By the Stockholders
7.1 . Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative ("proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, or as a controlling person of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director or officer, or in any other capacity while serving as a director or officer, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said Law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) against all expenses, liability and loss reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in Section 7.2 of this Article VII, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnity in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if (a) such indemnification is expressly required to be made by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, (b) the proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (c) such indemnification is provided by the Corporation, in its sole discretion, pursuant to the powers vested in the Corporation under the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (d) the proceeding (or part thereof) is brought to establish or enforce a right to indemnification under an indemnity agreement or any other statute or law or otherwise as required under Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. The rights hereunder shall be contract rights and shall include the right to be paid expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that, unless the Delaware General Corporation Law then so prohibits, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer of the Corporation in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is tendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of such proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it should be determined ultimately that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section or otherwise.
Right to Indemnification
7.2 . If a claim under Section 7.1 is not paid in full by the Corporation within ninety (90) days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, the
Right of Claimant to Bring Suit
 
claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if such suit is not frivolous or brought in bad faith, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any, has been tendered to this Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible under the Delaware General Corporation Law for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
7.3 . The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and to the advancement of related expenses, to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article with respect to the indemnification of and advancement of expenses to directors and officers of the Corporation.
Indemnification of Employees and Agents
7.4 . The rights conferred on any person in Sections 7.1 and 7.2 shall not be exclusive of any other right which such persons may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, bylaw, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
7.5 . The Board of Directors is authorized to enter into a contract with any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or any person serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including employee benefit plans, providing for indemnification rights equivalent to or, if the Board of Directors so determines, greater than, those provided for in this Article VII.
Indemnification Contracts
7.6 . The Corporation shall maintain insurance to the extent reasonably available, at its expense, to protect itself and any such director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any such expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Insurance
7.7 . Any amendment, repeal or modification of any provision of this Article VII by the stockholders and the directors of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director or officer of the Corporation existing at the time of such amendment, repeal or modification.
Effect of Amendment
 

Exhibit 10.1
1.
.
E, P T P
STABLISHMENT
URPOSE
AND
ERM
OF
LAN
1.1 The salesforce.com, inc. 2006 Inducement Equity Incentive Plan (the ) was established effective as of April 25, 2006, the date of its approval by the Board (the ) and is hereby amended and restated as of the dates set forth above.
Establishment
.
"
Plan
"
"
Effective Date
"
1.2 The purposes of the Plan are to provide a material inducement for the best available employees to join the Company, and to promote the success of the Company's business. The Plan seeks to achieve these purposes by providing for Awards in the form of Nonstatutory Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock Purchase Rights, Performance Shares, Performance Units, or Restricted Stock Units.
Purpose
.
1.3 The Plan became effective upon its adoption by the Board on the Effective Date and shall continue in effect for a term of ten (10) years unless terminated earlier under Section 15 of the Plan.
Term of Plan.
2.
.
D C
EFINITIONS
AND
ONSTRUCTION
2.1 Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have their respective meanings set forth below:
Definitions.
(a) means (i) an entity, other than a Parent Corporation, that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediary entities, controls the Company or (ii) an entity, other than a Subsidiary Corporation, that is controlled by the Company directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediary entities. For this purpose, the term "control" (including the term "controlled by") means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the relevant entity, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; or shall have such other meaning assigned such term for the purposes of registration on Form S-8 under the Securities Act.
"
Affiliate
"
(b) means any Nonstatutory Stock Option, SAR, Restricted Stock Purchase Right, Performance Share, Performance Unit, or Restricted Stock Unit granted under the Plan.
"
Award
"
(c) means a written agreement between the Company and a Participant setting forth the terms, conditions and restrictions of the Award granted to the Participant. An Award Agreement may be an "Option Agreement," a "SAR Agreement," a "Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement," a "Performance Share Agreement," a "Performance Unit Agreement," or a "Restricted Stock Unit Agreement."
"
Award Agreement
"
(d) means the Board of Directors of the Company.
"
Board
"
(e) means, unless otherwise defined by the Participant's Award Agreement or contract of employment or service, any of the following: (i) the Participant's theft, dishonesty, or falsification of any Participating Company documents or records; (ii) the Participant's improper use or disclosure of a Participating Company's confidential or proprietary information; (iii) any action by the Participant which has a detrimental effect on a Participating Company's reputation or business; (iv) the Participant's failure or inability to perform any reasonable assigned duties after written notice from a Participating Company of, and a reasonable opportunity to cure, such failure or inability; (v) any material breach by the Participant of any employment or service agreement between the Participant and a Participating Company, which breach is not cured pursuant to the terms of such agreement; or (vi) the Participant's conviction (including any plea of guilty or nolo contendere) of any criminal act which impairs the Participant's ability to perform his or her duties with a Participating Company.
"
Cause
"
(f) means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any applicable regulations promulgated thereunder.
"
Code
"
(g) means the Compensation Committee or other committee of the Board duly appointed to administer the Plan and having such powers as shall be specified by the Board. If no committee of the Board has been appointed to administer the Plan, the Board shall exercise all of the powers of the Committee granted herein, and, in any event, the Board may in its discretion exercise any or all of such powers.
"
Committee
"
(h) means salesforce.com, inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor corporation thereto.
"
Company
"
(i) means a member of the Board.
"
Director
"
(j) means the permanent and total disability of the Participant, within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
"
Disability
"
(k) means a credit, made at the discretion of the Committee or as otherwise provided by the Plan, to the account of a Participant in an amount equal to the cash dividends paid on one share of Stock for each share of Stock represented by an Award held by such Participant.
"
Dividend Equivalent
"
(l) means any person treated as an employee (including an Officer or a member of the Board who is also treated as an employee) in the records of a Participating Company; provided, however, that neither service as a member of the Board nor payment of a director's fee shall be sufficient to constitute employment for purposes of the Plan. The Company shall determine in good faith and in the exercise of its discretion whether an individual has become or has ceased to be an Employee and the effective date of such individual's employment or termination of employment, as the case may be. For purposes of an individual's rights, if any, under the Plan as of the time of the Company's determination, all such determinations by the Company shall be final, binding and conclusive, notwithstanding that the
"
Employee
"
Company or any court of law or governmental agency subsequently makes a contrary determination.
(m) means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"
Exchange Act
"
(n) means, as of any date, the value of a share of Stock or other property as determined by the Committee, in its discretion, or by the Company, in its discretion, if such determination is expressly allocated to the Company herein, subject to the following:
"
Fair Market Value
"
(i) If, on such date, the Stock is listed on a national or regional securities exchange or market system, the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be the closing price of a share of Stock (or the mean of the closing bid and asked prices of a share of Stock if the Stock is so quoted instead) as quoted on the Nasdaq National Market, The Nasdaq SmallCap Market or such other national or regional securities exchange or market system constituting the primary market for the Stock, as reported in or such other source as the Company deems reliable. If the relevant date does not fall on a day on which the Stock has traded on such securities exchange or market system, the date on which the Fair Market Value shall be established shall be the last day on which the Stock was so traded prior to the relevant date, or such other appropriate day as shall be determined by the Committee, in its discretion.
The Wall Street Journal
(ii) If, on such date, the Stock is not listed on a national or regional securities exchange or market system, the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be as determined by the Committee in good faith without regard to any restriction other than a restriction which, by its terms, will never lapse.
(o) means an Officer, a member of the Board or any other person whose transactions in Stock are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
"
Insider
"
(p) means an Option not intended to be (as set forth in the Award Agreement) an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code.
"
Nonstatutory Stock Option
"
(q) means any person designated by the Board as an officer of the Company.
"
Officer
"
(r) means the right to purchase Stock at a stated price for a specified period of time granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan. An Option may only be a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
"
Option
"
(s) means any present or future "parent corporation" of the Company, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
"
Parent Corporation
"
(t) means any eligible person who has been granted one or more Awards.
"
Participant
"
(u) means the Company or any Parent Corporation, Subsidiary Corporation or Affiliate.
"
Participating Company
"
(v) means, at any point in time, all entities collectively which are then Participating Companies.
"
Participating Company Group
"
(w) means an Award of Performance Shares or Performance Units.
"
Performance Award
"
(x) means, for any Performance Award, a formula or table established by the Committee pursuant to Section 9.3 of the Plan which provides the basis for computing the value of a Performance Award at one or more threshold levels of attainment of the applicable Performance Goal(s) measured as of the end of the applicable Performance Period.
"
Performance Award Formula
"
(y) means a performance goal established by the Committee pursuant to Section 9.3 of the Plan.
"
Performance Goal
"
(z) means a period established by the Committee pursuant to Section 9.3 of the Plan at the end of which one or more Performance Goals are to be measured.
"
Performance Period
"
(aa) means a bookkeeping entry representing a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 9 of the Plan to receive a payment equal to the value of a Performance Share, as determined by the Committee, based on performance.
"
Performance Share
"
(bb) means a bookkeeping entry representing a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 9 of the Plan to receive a payment equal to the value of a Performance Unit, as determined by the Committee, based upon performance.
"
Performance Unit
"
(cc) means an Award of a Restricted Stock Purchase Right.
"
Restricted Stock Award
"
(dd) means a right to purchase Stock granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 8 of the Plan.
"
Restricted Stock Purchase Right
"
(ee) means a bookkeeping entry representing a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 10 of the Plan to receive a share of Stock on a date determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 10 and the Participant's Award Agreement.
"
Restricted Stock Unit"
(ff) means the period established in accordance with Section 8.5 of the Plan during which shares subject to a Restricted Stock Award are subject to Vesting Conditions.
"
Restriction Period
"
(gg) means Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, as amended from time to time, or any successor rule or regulation.
"
Rule 16b-3
"
(hh) or means a bookkeeping entry representing, for each share of Stock subject to such SAR, a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 7 of the Plan to receive payment of an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise of the SAR over the exercise price.
"
SAR
"
"
Stock Appreciation Right
"
(ii) means Section 162(m) of the Code.
"
Section 162(m)
"
(jj) means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
"
Securities Act
"
(kk) means a Participant's employment or service with the Participating Company Group, in the capacity of an Employee. A Participant's Service shall not be deemed to have terminated merely because of a change in the capacity in which the Participant renders such Service or a change in the Participating Company for which the Participant renders such Service, provided that there is no interruption or termination of the Participant's Service. Furthermore, a Participant's Service shall not be deemed to have terminated if the Participant takes any military leave, sick leave, or other bona fide leave of absence approved by the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise designated by the Company or required by law, a leave of absence shall not be treated as Service for purposes of determining vesting under the Participant's Award Agreement. A Participant's Service shall be deemed to have terminated either upon an actual termination of Service or upon the entity for which the Participant performs Service ceasing to be a Participating Company. Subject to the foregoing, the Company, in its discretion, shall determine whether the Participant's Service has terminated and the effective date of such termination.
"
Service
"
(ll) means the common stock of the Company, as adjusted from time to time in accordance with Section 4.2 of the Plan.
"
Stock
"
(mm) means any present or future "subsidiary corporation" of the Company, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
"
Subsidiary Corporation
"
(nn) mean those conditions established in accordance with Section 8.5 or Section 10.3 of the Plan prior to the satisfaction of which shares subject to a Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award, respectively, remain subject to forfeiture or a repurchase option in favor of the Company upon the Participant's termination of Service.
"
Vesting Conditions
"
2.2 Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of the Plan. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular. Use of the term "or" is not intended to be exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
Construction.
3.
.
A
DMINISTRATION
3.1 The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. All questions of interpretation of the Plan or of any Award shall be determined by
Administration by the Committee.
the Committee, and such determinations shall be final and binding upon all persons having an interest in the Plan or such Award.
3.2 Any Officer shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Company with respect to any matter, right, obligation, determination or election which is the responsibility of or which is allocated to the Company herein, provided the Officer has apparent authority with respect to such matter, right, obligation, determination or election. The Board may, in its discretion, delegate to a committee comprised of one or more Officers the authority to grant one or more Awards, without further approval of the Board or the Committee, to any Employee, other than a person who, at the time of such grant, is an Insider; provided, however, that (a) such Awards shall not be granted for shares in excess of the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock authorized for issuance pursuant to Section 4.1, (b) the exercise price per share of each such Award which is an Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall be not less than the Fair Market Value per share of the Stock on the effective date of grant (or, if the Stock has not traded on such date, on the last day preceding the effective date of grant on which the Stock was traded), and (c) each such Award shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the appropriate standard form of Award Agreement approved by the Board or the Committee and shall conform to the provisions of the Plan and such other guidelines as shall be established from time to time by the Board or the Committee.
Authority of Officers.
3.3 With respect to participation by Insiders in the Plan, at any time that any class of equity security of the Company is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, the Plan shall be administered in compliance with the requirements, if any, of Rule 16b-3.
Administration with Respect to Insiders.
3.4 In addition to any other powers set forth in the Plan and subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have the full and final power and authority, in its discretion:
Powers of the Committee
.
(a) to determine the persons to whom, and the time or times at which, Awards shall be granted and the number of shares of Stock or units to be subject to each Award;
(b) to determine the type of Award granted;
(c) to determine the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock or other property;
(d) to determine the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to each Award (which need not be identical) and any shares acquired pursuant thereto, including, without limitation, (i) the exercise or purchase price of shares purchased pursuant to any Award; (ii) the method of payment for shares purchased pursuant to any Award; (iii) the method for satisfaction of any tax withholding obligation arising in connection with Award, including by the withholding or delivery of shares of Stock; (iv) the timing, terms and conditions of the exercisability or vesting of any Award or any shares acquired pursuant thereto; (v) the Performance Award Formula and Performance Goals applicable to any Award and the extent to which such Performance Goals have been attained; (vi) the time of the expiration of any Award, (vii) the effect of the Participant's termination of Service on any of the foregoing; and (viii) all
other terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to any Award or shares acquired pursuant thereto not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan;
(e) to determine whether an Award of SARs, Performance Shares or Performance Units will be settled in shares of Stock, cash, or in any combination thereof;
(f) to approve one or more forms of Award Agreement;
(g) to amend, modify, extend, cancel or renew any Award or to waive any restrictions or conditions applicable to any Award or any shares acquired pursuant thereto;
(h) to accelerate, continue, extend or defer the exercisability or vesting of any Award or any shares acquired pursuant thereto, including with respect to the period following a Participant's termination of Service;
(i) to prescribe, amend or rescind rules, guidelines and policies relating to the Plan, or to adopt sub-plans or supplements to, or alternative versions of, the Plan, including, without limitation, as the Committee deems necessary or desirable to comply with the laws or regulations of or to accommodate the tax policy, accounting principles or custom of, foreign jurisdictions whose citizens may be granted Awards; and
(j) to correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award Agreement and to make all other determinations and take such other actions with respect to the Plan or any Award as the Committee may deem advisable to the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan or applicable law.
3.5 In addition to such other rights of indemnification as they may have as members of the Board or the Committee or as officers or employees of the Participating Company Group, members of the Board or the Committee and any officers or employees of the Participating Company Group to whom authority to act for the Board, the Committee or the Company is delegated shall be indemnified by the Company against all reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees, actually and necessarily incurred in connection with the defense of any action, suit or proceeding, or in connection with any appeal therein, to which they or any of them may be a party by reason of any action taken or failure to act under or in connection with the Plan, or any right granted hereunder, and against all amounts paid by them in settlement thereof (provided such settlement is approved by independent legal counsel selected by the Company) or paid by them in satisfaction of a judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding, except in relation to matters as to which it shall be adjudged in such action, suit or proceeding that such person is liable for gross negligence, bad faith or intentional misconduct in duties; provided, however, that within sixty (60) days after the institution of such action, suit or proceeding, such person shall offer to the Company, in writing, the opportunity at its own expense to handle and defend the same.
Indemnification.
4.
.
S S P
HARES
UBJECT
TO
LAN
4.1 Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2, the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan shall be one million (1,000,000) and shall consist of authorized but unissued or reacquired
Maximum Number of Shares Issuable.
shares of Stock or any combination thereof. If an outstanding Award for any reason expires or is terminated or canceled without having been exercised or settled in full, or if shares of Stock acquired pursuant to an Award subject to forfeiture or repurchase are forfeited or repurchased by the Company at the Participant's purchase price, the shares of Stock allocable to the terminated portion of such Award or such forfeited or repurchased shares of Stock shall again be available for issuance under the Plan. Shares of Stock shall not be deemed to have been issued pursuant to the Plan (a) with respect to any portion of an Award that is settled in cash or (b) to the extent such shares are withheld in satisfaction of tax withholding obligations pursuant to Section 14.2. Upon payment in shares of Stock pursuant to the exercise of an SAR, the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced only by the number of shares actually issued in such payment. If the exercise price of an Option is paid by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock owned by the Participant, the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the net number of shares for which the Option is exercised.
4.2 Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, in the event of any change in the Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company, whether through merger, consolidation, reorganization, reincorporation, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares, or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, or in the event of payment of a dividend or distribution to the stockholders of the Company in a form other than Stock (excepting normal cash dividends) that has a material effect on the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the number and class of shares subject to the Plan and to any outstanding Awards, and in the exercise or purchase price per share under any outstanding Award in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants' rights under the Plan. For purposes of the foregoing, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as "effected without receipt of consideration by the Company." Any fractional share resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section 4.2 shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number, and in no event may the exercise or purchase price under any Award be decreased to an amount less than the par value, if any, of the stock subject to such Award. The adjustments determined by the Committee pursuant to this Section 4.2 shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Adjustments for Changes in Capital Structure
.
5.
.
E A L
LIGIBILITY
AND
WARD
IMITATIONS
5.1 Awards may be granted to Employees so long as the following requirements are met: (a) the Employee was not previously an Employee or Director, or the Employee is returning to the employment of the Company following a bona-fide period of non-employment, and (b) the grant of an Award under the Plan is a material inducement to the Employee's decision to enter into the employment of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Employee may be granted an Award in connection with a merger, acquisition or similar transaction, to the extent permitted by the New York Stock Exchange rules governing stockholder approval of inducement equity compensation plans.
Persons Eligible for Awards.
5.2 Awards are granted solely at the discretion of the Committee. Eligible persons may be granted more than one (1) Award. However, eligibility in accordance
Participation.
with this Section shall not entitle any person to be granted an Award, or, having been granted an Award, to be granted an additional Award.
6.
.
T C O
ERMS
AND
ONDITIONS
OF
PTIONS
Options shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of shares of Stock covered thereby, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Option or purported Option shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Options may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
6.1 The exercise price for each Option shall be established in the discretion of the Committee; provided, however, that the exercise price per share shall be not less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the Option. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option may be granted with an exercise price lower than the minimum exercise price set forth above if such Option is granted pursuant to an assumption or substitution for another option in a manner qualifying under the provisions of Section 424(a) of the Code.
Exercise Price
.
6.2 Options shall be exercisable at such time or times, or upon such event or events, and subject to such terms, conditions, performance criteria and restrictions as shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option; provided, however, that no Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of five (5) years after the effective date of grant of such Option. Subject to the foregoing, unless otherwise specified by the Committee in the grant of an Option, any Option granted hereunder shall terminate five (5) years after the effective date of grant of the Option, unless earlier terminated in accordance with its provisions.
Exercisability and Term of Options
.
6.3
Payment of Exercise Price.
(a) Except as otherwise provided below, payment of the exercise price for the number of shares of Stock being purchased pursuant to any Option shall be made (i) in cash, by check or in cash equivalent; (ii) by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock owned by the Participant having a Fair Market Value not less than the exercise price; (iii) by delivery of a properly executed notice of exercise together with irrevocable instructions to a broker providing for the assignment to the Company of the proceeds of a sale or loan with respect to some or all of the shares being acquired upon the exercise of the Option (including, without limitation, through an exercise complying with the provisions of Regulation T as promulgated from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) (a ); (iv) by such other consideration as may be approved by the Committee from time to time to the extent permitted by applicable law; or (v) by any combination thereof. The Committee may at any time or from time to time grant Options which do not permit all of the foregoing forms of consideration to be used in payment of the exercise price or which otherwise restrict one or more forms of consideration.
Forms of Consideration Authorized.
"
Cashless Exercise
"
(b)
Limitations on Forms of Consideration.
(i) Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock to the extent such tender or attestation would constitute a violation of the provisions of any law, regulation or agreement restricting the redemption of the Company's stock. Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, an Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock unless such shares either have been owned by the Participant for more than six (6) months (and not used for another Option exercise by attestation during such period) or were not acquired, directly or indirectly, from the Company.
Tender of Stock.
(ii) The Company reserves, at any and all times, the right, in the Company's sole and absolute discretion, to establish, decline to approve or terminate any program or procedures for the exercise of Options by means of a Cashless Exercise, including with respect to one or more Participants specified by the Company notwithstanding that such program or procedures may be available to other Participants.
Cashless Exercise.
6.4
Effect of Termination of Service.
(a) Subject to earlier termination of the Option as otherwise provided herein and unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the grant of an Option and set forth in the Award Agreement, an Option shall be exercisable after a Participant's termination of Service only during the applicable time period determined in accordance with this Section and thereafter shall terminate:
Option Exercisability
.
(i) If the Participant's Service terminates because of the Disability of the Participant, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant (or the Participant's guardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of one (1) year (or such longer period of time as determined by the Board, in its discretion) after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the date of expiration of the Option's term as set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option (the ).
Disability.
"
Option Expiration Date
"
(ii) If the Participant's Service terminates because of the death of the Participant, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant's legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by reason of the Participant's death at any time prior to the expiration of one (1) year (or such longer period of time as determined by the Board, in its discretion) after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date. The Participant's Service shall be deemed to have terminated on account of death if the Participant dies within ninety (90) days (or such longer period of time as determined by the Board, in its discretion) after the Participant's termination of Service.
Death.
(iii) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, if the Participant's Service is terminated for Cause, the
Termination for Cause.
Option shall terminate and cease to be exercisable immediately upon such termination of Service.
(iv) If the Participant's Service terminates for any reason, except Disability, death or Cause, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable by the Participant on the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant at any time prior to the expiration of ninety (90) days (or such longer period of time as determined by the Board, in its discretion) after the date on which the Participant's Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Other Termination of Service.
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, other than termination of Service for Cause, if the exercise of an Option within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 6.4(a) is prevented by the provisions of Section 13 below, the Option shall remain exercisable until ninety (90) days (or such longer period of time as determined by the Board, in its discretion) after the date the Participant is notified by the Company that the Option is exercisable, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Exercise Prevented by Law
.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, other than termination of Service for Cause, if a sale within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 6.4(a) of shares acquired upon the exercise of the Option would subject the Participant to suit under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the Option shall remain exercisable until the earliest to occur of (i) the tenth (10th) day following the date on which a sale of such shares by the Participant would no longer be subject to such suit; (ii) the one hundred and ninetieth (190th) day after the Participant's termination of Service; or (iii) the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Participant Subject to Section 16(b
).
6.5 During the lifetime of the Participant, an Option shall be exercisable only by the Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative. Prior to the issuance of shares of Stock upon the exercise of an Option, the Option shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent permitted by the Committee, in its discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option, a Nonstatutory Stock Option shall be assignable or transferable subject to the applicable limitations, if any, described in the General Instructions to Form S-8 Registration Statement under the Securities Act.
Transferability of Options.
7.
.
T C S A R
ERMS
AND
ONDITIONS
OF
TOCK
PPRECIATION
IGHTS
Stock Appreciation Rights shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of shares of Stock subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No SAR or purported SAR shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements
evidencing SARs may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
7.1 SARs may be granted in tandem with all or any portion of a related Option (a ) or may be granted independently of any Option (a ). A Tandem SAR may be granted either concurrently with the grant of the related Option or at any time thereafter prior to the complete exercise, termination, expiration or cancellation of such related Option.
Types of SARs Authorized.
"
Tandem SAR
"
"
Freestanding SAR
"
7.2 The exercise price for each SAR shall be established in the discretion of the Committee; provided, however, that (a) the exercise price per share subject to a Tandem SAR shall be the exercise price per share under the related Option, and (b) the exercise price per share subject to a Freestanding SAR shall be not less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the SAR.
Exercise Price.
7.3
Exercisability and Term of SARs.
(a) Tandem SARs shall be exercisable only at the time and to the extent, and only to the extent, that the related Option is exercisable, subject to such provisions as the Committee may specify where the Tandem SAR is granted with respect to less than the full number of shares of Stock subject to the related Option. The Committee may, in its discretion, provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Tandem SAR that such SAR may not be exercised without the advance approval of the Company and, if such approval is not given, then the Option shall nevertheless remain exercisable in accordance with its terms. A Tandem SAR shall terminate and cease to be exercisable no later than the date on which the related Option expires or is terminated or canceled. Upon the exercise of a Tandem SAR with respect to some or all of the shares subject to such SAR, the related Option shall be canceled automatically as to the number of shares with respect to which the Tandem SAR was exercised. Upon the exercise of an Option related to a Tandem SAR as to some or all of the shares subject to such Option, the related Tandem SAR shall be canceled automatically as to the number of shares with respect to which the related Option was exercised.
Tandem SARs.
(b) Freestanding SARs shall be exercisable at such time or times, or upon such event or events, and subject to such terms, conditions, performance criteria and restrictions as shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such SAR; provided, however, that no Freestanding SAR shall be exercisable after the expiration of five (5) years after the effective date of grant of such SAR.
Freestanding SARs.
7.4 Upon the exercise (or deemed exercise pursuant to Section 7.5) of an SAR, the Participant (or the Participant's legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the SAR by reason of the Participant's death) shall be entitled to receive payment of an amount for each share with respect to which the SAR is exercised equal to the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise of the SAR over the exercise price. Payment of such amount shall be made in cash, shares of Stock, or any combination thereof as determined by the Committee. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement evidencing such SAR, payment shall be made in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the date of exercise of the SAR. The Award Agreement evidencing any
Exercise of SARs.
SAR may provide for deferred payment in a lump sum or in installments. When payment is to be made in shares of Stock, the number of shares to be issued shall be determined on the basis of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise of the SAR. For purposes of Section 7, an SAR shall be deemed exercised on the date on which the Company receives notice of exercise from the Participant.
7.5 If, on the date on which an SAR would otherwise terminate or expire, the SAR by its terms remains exercisable immediately prior to such termination or expiration and, if so exercised, would result in a payment to the holder of such SAR, then any portion of such SAR which has not previously been exercised shall automatically be deemed to be exercised as of such date with respect to such portion.
Deemed Exercise of SARs.
7.6 Subject to earlier termination of the SAR as otherwise provided herein and unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the grant of an SAR and set forth in the Award Agreement, an SAR shall be exercisable after a Participant's termination of Service only during the applicable time period determined in accordance with Section 6.4 (treating the SAR as if it were an Option) and thereafter shall terminate.
Effect of Termination of Service.
7.7 During the lifetime of the Participant, an SAR shall be exercisable only by the Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative. Prior to the exercise of an SAR, the SAR shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
Nontransferability of SARs.
8.
.
T C R S A
ERMS
AND
ONDITIONS
OF
ESTRICTED
TOCK
WARDS
Restricted Stock Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of shares of Stock subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Restricted Stock Award or purported Restricted Stock Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Restricted Stock Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
8.1 Restricted Stock Awards may be in the form of a Restricted Stock Purchase Right. Restricted Stock Awards may be granted upon such conditions as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals described in Section 9.4. If either the grant of a Restricted Stock Award or the lapsing of the Restriction Period is to be contingent upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals, the Committee shall follow procedures substantially equivalent to those set forth in Sections 9.3 through 9.5(a).
Types of Restricted Stock Awards Authorized.
8.2 The purchase price for shares of Stock issuable under each Restricted Stock Purchase Right shall be established by the Committee in its discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Participant shall furnish consideration in the form of cash or
Purchase Price.
past services rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit having a value not less than the par value of the shares of Stock subject to such Restricted Stock Award.
8.3 A Restricted Stock Purchase Right shall be exercisable within a period established by the Committee, which shall in no event exceed thirty (30) days from the effective date of the grant of the Restricted Stock Purchase Right; provided, however, that no Restricted Stock Purchase Right granted to a prospective Employee may become exercisable prior to the date on which such person commences Service.
Purchase Period.
8.4 Except as otherwise provided below, payment of the purchase price for the number of shares of Stock being purchased pursuant to any Restricted Stock Purchase Right shall be made (a) in cash, by check, or in cash equivalent, (b) by such other consideration as may be approved by the Committee from time to time to the extent permitted by applicable law, or (c) by any combination thereof. The Committee may at any time or from time to time grant Restricted Stock Purchase Rights which do not permit all of the foregoing forms of consideration to be used in payment of the purchase price or which otherwise restrict one or more forms of consideration.
Payment of Purchase Price.
8.5 Shares issued pursuant to any Restricted Stock Award may or may not be made subject to Vesting Conditions based upon the satisfaction of such Service requirements, conditions, restrictions or performance criteria, including, without limitation, Performance Goals as described in Section 9.4, as shall be established by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award. During any Restriction Period in which shares acquired pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award remain subject to Vesting Conditions, such shares may not be sold, exchanged, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise disposed of other than pursuant to an Ownership Change Event, as defined in Section 12.1, or as provided in Section 8.8. Upon request by the Company, each Participant shall execute any agreement evidencing such transfer restrictions prior to the receipt of shares of Stock hereunder and shall promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares of Stock acquired hereunder for the placement on such certificates of appropriate legends evidencing any such transfer restrictions.
Vesting and Restrictions on Transfer.
8.6 Except as provided in this Section, Section 8.5 and any Award Agreement, during the Restriction Period applicable to shares subject to a Restricted Stock Award, the Participant shall have all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company holding shares of Stock, including the right to vote such shares and to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with respect to such shares. However, in the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.2, then any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant is entitled by reason of the Participant's Restricted Stock Award shall be immediately subject to the same Vesting Conditions as the shares subject to the Restricted Stock Award with respect to which such dividends or distributions were paid or adjustments were made.
Voting Rights; Dividends and Distributions.
8.7 Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the grant of a Restricted Stock Award and set forth in the Award Agreement, if a
Effect of Termination of Service.
Participant's Service terminates for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary (including the Participant's death or disability), then the Company shall have the option to repurchase for the purchase price paid by the Participant any shares acquired by the Participant pursuant to a Restricted Stock Purchase Right which remain subject to Vesting Conditions as of the date of the Participant's termination of Service. The Company shall have the right to assign at any time any repurchase right it may have, whether or not such right is then exercisable, to one or more persons as may be selected by the Company.
8.8 Prior to the issuance of shares of Stock pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award, rights to acquire such shares shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to a Restricted Stock Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
Nontransferability of Restricted Stock Award Rights.
9.
.
T C P A
ERMS
AND
ONDITIONS
OF
ERFORMANCE
WARDS
Performance Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Performance Award or purported Performance Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Performance Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
9.1 Performance Awards may be in the form of either Performance Shares or Performance Units. Each Award Agreement evidencing a Performance Award shall specify the number of Performance Shares or Performance Units subject thereto, the Performance Award Formula, the Performance Goal(s) and Performance Period applicable to the Award, and the other terms, conditions and restrictions of the Award.
Types of Performance Awards Authorized.
9.2 Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in granting a Performance Award, each Performance Share shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Stock, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2, on the effective date of grant of the Performance Share, and each Performance Unit shall have an initial value of an amount determined by the Committee on the effective date of the grant of the unit. The final value payable to the Participant in settlement of a Performance Award determined on the basis of the applicable Performance Award Formula will depend on the extent to which Performance Goals established by the Committee are attained within the applicable Performance Period established by the Committee.
Initial Value of Performance Shares and Performance Units.
9.3 In granting each Performance Award, the Committee shall establish in writing the applicable Performance Period, Performance Award Formula and one or more Performance Goals which, when measured at the end of the Performance Period, shall
Establishment of Performance Period, Performance Goals and Performance Award Formula.
determine on the basis of the Performance Award Formula the final value of the Performance Award to be paid to the Participant. The Committee shall establish the Performance Goal(s) and Performance Award Formula applicable to each Performance Award no later than the earlier of (a) the date ninety (90) days after the commencement of the applicable Performance Period or (b) the date on which twenty-five percent (25%) of the Performance Period has elapsed, and, in any event, at a time when the outcome of the Performance Goals remains substantially uncertain. Once established, the Performance Goals and Performance Award Formula shall not be changed during the Performance Period. The Company shall notify each Participant granted a Performance Award of the terms of such Award, including the Performance Period, Performance Goal(s) and Performance Award Formula.
9.4 Performance Goals shall be established by the Committee on the basis of targets to be attained () with respect to one or more measures of business or financial performance (each, a ), subject to the following:
Measurement of Performance Goals.
"
Performance Targets
"
"
Performance Measure
"
(a) Performance Measures shall have the same meanings as used in the Company's financial statements, or, if such terms are not used in the Company's financial statements, they shall have the meaning applied pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, or as used generally in the Company's industry. Performance Measures shall be calculated with respect to the Company and each Subsidiary Corporation consolidated therewith for financial reporting purposes or such division or other business unit as may be selected by the Committee. For purposes of the Plan, the Performance Measures applicable to a Performance Award shall be calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but prior to the accrual or payment of any Performance Award for the same Performance Period and excluding the effect (whether positive or negative) of any change in accounting standards or any extraordinary, unusual or nonrecurring item, as determined by the Committee, occurring after the establishment of the Performance Goals applicable to the Performance Award. Performance Measures may be one or more of the following, as determined by the Committee:
Performance Measures.
(i) revenue;
(ii) gross margin;
(iii) operating margin;
(iv) operating income;
(v) pre-tax profit;
(vi) earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation;
(vii) net income;
(viii) cash flow;
(ix) expenses;
(x) the market price of the Stock;
(xi) earnings per share;
(xii) return on stockholder equity;
(xiii) return on capital;
(xiv) return on net assets;
(xv) economic value added;
(xvi) number of customers; and
(xvii) market share.
(b) Performance Targets may include a minimum, maximum, target level and intermediate levels of performance, with the final value of a Performance Award determined under the applicable Performance Award Formula by the level attained during the applicable Performance Period. A Performance Target may be stated as an absolute value or as a value determined relative to a standard selected by the Committee.
Performance Targets.
9.5
Settlement of Performance Awards.
(a) As soon as practicable following the completion of the Performance Period applicable to a Performance Award, the Committee shall certify in writing the extent to which the applicable Performance Goals have been attained and the resulting final value of the Award earned by the Participant and to be paid upon its settlement in accordance with the applicable Performance Award Formula.
Determination of Final Value.
(b) Unless otherwise required by law, payment of the final value, if any, of a Performance Award held by a Participant who has taken in excess of thirty (30) days in leaves of absence during a Performance Period shall be prorated on the basis of the number of days of the Participant's Service during the Performance Period during which the Participant was not on a leave of absence.
Effect of Leaves of Absence.
(c) As soon as practicable following the Committee's determination and certification in accordance with Section 9.5(a), the Company shall notify each Participant of the determination of the Committee.
Notice to Participants.
(d) As soon as practicable following the Committee's determination and certification in accordance with Sections 9.5(a), payment shall be made to each eligible Participant (or such Participant's legal representative or other person who acquired the right to receive such payment by reason of the Participant's death) of the final value of the Participant's Performance Award. Payment of such amount shall be made in cash, shares of Stock, or a combination thereof as determined by the Committee. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement evidencing a Performance Award, payment shall be made in a lump sum. An Award Agreement may provide for deferred
Payment in Settlement of Performance Awards.
payment in a lump sum or in installments. If any payment is to be made on a deferred basis, the Committee may, but shall not be obligated to, provide for the payment during the deferral period of Dividend Equivalents or interest.
(e) If payment is to be made in shares of Stock, the number of such shares shall be determined by dividing the final value of the Performance Award by the value of a share of Stock determined by the method specified in the Award Agreement. Such methods may include, without limitation, the closing market price on a specified date (such as the settlement date) or an average of market prices over a series of trading days. Shares of Stock issued in payment of any Performance Award may be fully vested and freely transferable shares or may be shares of Stock subject to Vesting Conditions as provided in Section 8.5. Any shares subject to Vesting Conditions shall be evidenced by an appropriate Award Agreement and shall be subject to the provisions of Sections 8.5 through 8.8 above.
Provisions Applicable to Payment in Shares.
9.6 Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Performance Share Awards until the date of the issuance of such shares, if any (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). However, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Performance Share Award that the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalents with respect to the payment of cash dividends on Stock having a record date prior to the date on which the Performance Shares are settled or forfeited. Such Dividend Equivalents, if any, shall be credited to the Participant in the form of additional whole Performance Shares as of the date of payment of such cash dividends on Stock. The number of additional Performance Shares (rounded to the nearest whole number) to be so credited shall be determined by dividing (a) the amount of cash dividends paid on such date with respect to the number of shares of Stock represented by the Performance Shares previously credited to the Participant by (b) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on such date. Dividend Equivalents may be paid currently or may be accumulated and paid to the extent that Performance Shares become nonforfeitable, as determined by the Committee. Settlement of Dividend Equivalents may be made in cash, shares of Stock, or a combination thereof as determined by the Committee, and may be paid on the same basis as settlement of the related Performance Share as provided in Section 9.5. Dividend Equivalents shall not be paid with respect to Performance Units. In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.2, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Participant's Performance Share Award so that it represents the right to receive upon settlement any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant would entitled by reason of the shares of Stock issuable upon settlement of the Performance Share Award, and all such new, substituted or additional securities or other property shall be immediately subject to the same Performance Goals as are applicable to the Award.
Voting Rights; Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions.
9.7 Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the grant of a Performance Award and set forth in the Award Agreement, the effect of a Participant's termination of Service on the Performance Award shall be as follows:
Effect of Termination of Service.
(a) If the Participant's Service terminates because of the death or Disability of the Participant before the completion of the Performance Period applicable to the Performance Award, the final value of the Participant's Performance Award shall be determined by the extent to which the applicable Performance Goals have been attained with respect to the entire Performance Period and shall be prorated based on the number of months of the Participant's Service during the Performance Period. Payment shall be made following the end of the Performance Period in any manner permitted by Section 9.5.
Death or Disability.
(b) If the Participant's Service terminates for any reason except death or Disability before the completion of the Performance Period applicable to the Performance Award, such Award shall be forfeited in its entirety; provided, however, that in the event of an involuntary termination of the Participant's Service, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may waive the automatic forfeiture of all or any portion of any such Award.
Other Termination of Service.
9.8 Prior to settlement in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, no Performance Award shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to a Performance Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
Nontransferability of Performance Awards.
10. .
T C R S U A
ERMS
AND
ONDITIONS
OF
ESTRICTED
TOCK
NIT
WARDS
Restricted Stock Unit Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of Restricted Stock Units subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish. No Restricted Stock Unit Award or purported Restricted Stock Unit Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement. Award Agreements evidencing Restricted Stock Units may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
10.1 Restricted Stock Unit Awards may be granted upon such conditions as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals described in Section 9.4. If either the grant of a Restricted Stock Unit Award or the Vesting Conditions with respect to such Award is to be contingent upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals, the Committee shall follow procedures substantially equivalent to those set forth in Sections 9.3 through 9.5(a).
Grant of Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
10.2 No monetary payment (other than applicable tax withholding, if any) shall be required as a condition of receiving a Restricted Stock Unit Award, the consideration for which shall be services actually rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit.
Purchase Price.
10.3 Restricted Stock Units may or may not be made subject to Vesting Conditions based upon the satisfaction of such Service requirements, conditions, restrictions or performance criteria, including, without limitation, Performance Goals as described in Section 9.4, as shall be established by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award.
Vesting.
10.4 Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Restricted Stock Units until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). However, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Restricted Stock Unit Award that the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalents with respect to the payment of cash dividends on Stock having a record date prior to date on which Restricted Stock Units held by such Participant are settled. Such Dividend Equivalents, if any, shall be paid by crediting the Participant with additional whole Restricted Stock Units as of the date of payment of such cash dividends on Stock. The number of additional Restricted Stock Units (rounded to the nearest whole number) to be so credited shall be determined by dividing (a) the amount of cash dividends paid on such date with respect to the number of shares of Stock represented by the Restricted Stock Units previously credited to the Participant by (b) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on such date. Such additional Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the same terms and conditions and shall be settled in the same manner and at the same time (or as soon thereafter as practicable) as the Restricted Stock Units originally subject to the Restricted Stock Unit Award. In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.2, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Participant's Restricted Stock Unit Award so that it represents the right to receive upon settlement any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant would entitled by reason of the shares of Stock issuable upon settlement of the Award, and all such new, substituted or additional securities or other property shall be immediately subject to the same Vesting Conditions as are applicable to the Award.
Voting Rights, Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions.
10.5 Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the grant of a Restricted Stock Unit Award and set forth in the Award Agreement, if a Participant's Service terminates for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary (including the Participant's death or disability), then the Participant shall forfeit to the Company any Restricted Stock Units pursuant to the Award which remain subject to Vesting Conditions as of the date of the Participant's termination of Service.
Effect of Termination of Service.
10.6 The Company shall issue to a Participant on the date on which Restricted Stock Units subject to the Participant's Restricted Stock Unit Award vest or on such other date determined by the Committee, in its discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement one (1) share of Stock (and/or any other new, substituted or additional securities or other property pursuant to an adjustment described in Section 10.4) for each Restricted Stock Unit then becoming vested or otherwise to be settled on such date, subject to the withholding of applicable taxes. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if permitted by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement, the Participant may elect in accordance with terms specified in the Award Agreement to defer receipt of all or any portion of
Settlement of Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
the shares of Stock or other property otherwise issuable to the Participant pursuant to this Section.
10.7 Prior to the issuance of shares of Stock in settlement of a Restricted Stock Unit Award, the Award shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant's beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. All rights with respect to a Restricted Stock Unit Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative.
Nontransferability of Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
11.
.
S F A A
TANDARD
ORMS
OF
WARD
GREEMENT
11.1 Each Award shall comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the appropriate form of Award Agreement approved by the Committee and as amended from time to time. Any Award Agreement may consist of an appropriate form of Notice of Grant and a form of Agreement incorporated therein by reference, or such other form or forms as the Committee may approve from time to time.
Award Agreements
.
11.2 The Committee shall have the authority from time to time to vary the terms of any standard form of Award Agreement either in connection with the grant or amendment of an individual Award or in connection with the authorization of a new standard form or forms; provided, however, that the terms and conditions of any such new, revised or amended standard form or forms of Award Agreement are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan.
Authority to Vary Terms
.
12.
.
C C
HANGE
IN
ONTROL
12.1
Definitions.
(a) An shall be deemed to have occurred if any of the following occurs with respect to the Company: (i) the direct or indirect sale or exchange in a single or series of related transactions by the stockholders of the Company of more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting stock of the Company; (ii) a merger or consolidation in which the Company is a party; (iii) the sale, exchange, or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (other than a sale, exchange or transfer to one or more subsidiaries of the Company); or (iv) a liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
"
Ownership Change Event
"
(b) A shall mean an Ownership Change Event or series of related Ownership Change Events (collectively, a ) in which the stockholders of the Company immediately before the Transaction do not retain immediately after the Transaction, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of shares of the Company's voting stock immediately before the Transaction, direct or indirect beneficial ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Company or, in the case of an Ownership Change Event described in Section 12.1(a)(iii), the entity to which the assets of the Company were transferred (the ), as the case may be. For purposes of the preceding sentence, indirect beneficial ownership shall include, without limitation, an interest resulting from ownership of the
"
Change in Control
"
"
Transaction
"
"
Transferee
"
voting securities of one or more corporations or other business entities which own the Company or the Transferee, as the case may be, either directly or through one or more subsidiary corporations or other business entities. The Committee shall have the right to determine whether multiple sales or exchanges of the voting securities of the Company or multiple Ownership Change Events are related, and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.
12.2
Effect of Change in Control on Options and SARs
.
(a) . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may provide in any Award Agreement or, in the event of a Change in Control, may take such actions as it deems appropriate to provide for the acceleration of the exercisability and vesting in connection with such Change in Control of any or all outstanding Options and SARs and shares acquired upon the exercise of such Options and SARs upon such conditions and to such extent as the Committee shall determine.
Accelerated Vesting
(b) . In the event of a Change in Control, the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing entity or parent thereof, as the case may be (the ), may, without the consent of any Participant, either assume the Company's rights and obligations under outstanding Options and SARs or substitute for outstanding Options and SARs substantially equivalent options and SARs (as the case may be) for the Acquiror's stock. Any Options or SARs which are not assumed by the Acquiror in connection with the Change in Control nor exercised as of the time of consummation of the Change in Control shall terminate and cease to be outstanding effective as of the time of consummation of the Change in Control.
Assumption or Substitution
"
Acquiror
"
(c) . The Committee may, in its sole discretion and without the consent of any Participant, determine that, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each or any Option or SAR outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control shall be canceled in exchange for a payment with respect to each vested share of Stock subject to such canceled Option or SAR in (i) cash; (ii) stock of the Company or of a corporation or other business entity a party to the Change in Control; or (iii) other property which, in any such case, shall be in an amount having a Fair Market Value equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the consideration to be paid per share of Stock in the Change in Control over the exercise price per share under such Option or SAR (the ). In the event such determination is made by the Committee, the Spread (reduced by applicable withholding taxes, if any) shall be paid to Participants in respect of their canceled Options and SARs as soon as practicable following the date of the Change in Control.
Cash-Out of Options
"
Spread
"
12.3 The Committee may, in its discretion, provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Restricted Stock Award that, in the event of a Change in Control, the lapsing of the Restriction Period applicable to the shares subject to the Restricted Stock Award held by a Participant whose Service has not terminated prior to the Change in Control shall be accelerated effective immediately prior to the consummation of the Change in Control to such extent as specified in such Award Agreement. Any acceleration of the lapsing of the Restriction Period that was permissible solely by reason of this Section 12.3 and the provisions of such Award Agreement shall be conditioned upon the consummation of the Change in Control.
Effect of Change in Control on Restricted Stock Awards.
12.4 The Committee may, in its discretion, provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Performance Award that, in the event of a Change in Control, the Performance Award held by a Participant whose Service has not terminated prior to the Change in Control shall become payable effective as of the date of the Change in Control to such extent as specified in such Award Agreement.
Effect of Change in Control on Performance Awards.
12.5 The Committee may, in its discretion, provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Restricted Stock Unit Award that, in the event of a Change in Control, the Restricted Stock Unit Award held by a Participant whose Service has not terminated prior to such date shall be settled effective as of the date of the Change in Control to such extent as specified in such Award Agreement.
Effect of Change in Control on Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
13.
.
C S L
OMPLIANCE
WITH
ECURITIES
AW
The grant of Awards and the issuance of shares of Stock pursuant to any Award shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state and foreign law with respect to such securities and the requirements of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed. In addition, no Award may be exercised or shares issued pursuant to an Award unless (a) a registration statement under the Securities Act shall at the time of such exercise or issuance be in effect with respect to the shares issuable pursuant to the Award or (b) in the opinion of legal counsel to the Company, the shares issuable pursuant to the Award may be issued in accordance with the terms of an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Company's legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares hereunder shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. As a condition to issuance of any Stock, the Company may require the Participant to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
14.
.
T W
AX
ITHHOLDING
14.1 The Company shall have the right to deduct from any and all payments made under the Plan, or to require the Participant, through payroll withholding, cash payment or otherwise, including by means of a Cashless Exercise of an Option, to make adequate provision for, the federal, state, local and foreign taxes, if any, required by law to be withheld by the Participating Company Group with respect to an Award or the shares acquired pursuant thereto. The Company shall have no obligation to deliver shares of Stock, to release shares of Stock from an escrow established pursuant to an Award Agreement, or to make any payment in cash under the Plan until the Participating Company Group's tax withholding obligations have been satisfied by the Participant.
Tax Withholding in General.
14.2 The Company shall have the right, but not the obligation, to deduct from the shares of Stock issuable to a Participant upon the exercise or settlement of an Award, or to accept from the Participant the tender of, a number of whole shares
Withholding in Shares.
of Stock having a Fair Market Value, as determined by the Company, equal to all or any part of the tax withholding obligations of the Participating Company Group. The Fair Market Value of any shares of Stock withheld or tendered to satisfy any such tax withholding obligations shall not exceed the amount determined by the applicable minimum statutory withholding rates.
15.
.
A T P
MENDMENT
OR
ERMINATION
OF
LAN
The Committee may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan at any time. However, without the approval of the Company's stockholders, there shall be (a) no increase in the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan (except by operation of the provisions of Section 4.2), (b) no change in the class of persons eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options, and (c) no other amendment of the Plan that would require approval of the Company's stockholders under any applicable law, regulation or rule. No amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall affect any then outstanding Award unless expressly provided by the Committee. In any event, no amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan may adversely affect any then outstanding Award without the consent of the Participant unless necessary to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule.
16.
.
M P
ISCELLANEOUS
ROVISIONS
16.1 Shares issued under the Plan may be subject to one or more repurchase options, or other conditions and restrictions as determined by the Committee in its discretion at the time the Award is granted. The Company shall have the right to assign at any time any repurchase right it may have, whether or not such right is then exercisable, to one or more persons as may be selected by the Company. Upon request by the Company, each Participant shall execute any agreement evidencing such transfer restrictions prior to the receipt of shares of Stock hereunder and shall promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares of Stock acquired hereunder for the placement on such certificates of appropriate legends evidencing any such transfer restrictions.
Repurchase Rights
.
16.2 Each Participant shall be given access to information concerning the Company equivalent to that information generally made available to the Company's common stockholders.
Provision of Information.
16.3 No person, even though eligible pursuant to Section 5, shall have a right to be selected as a Participant, or, having been so selected, to be selected again as a Participant. Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan shall confer on any Participant a right to remain an Employee or interfere with or limit in any way any right of a Participating Company to terminate the Participant's Service at any time. To the extent that an Employee of a Participating Company other than the Company receives an Award under the Plan, that Award shall in no event be understood or interpreted to mean that the Company is the Employee's employer or that the Employee has an employment relationship with the Company.
Rights as Employee.
16.4 A Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares covered by an Award until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly
Rights as a Stockholder.
authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such shares are issued, except as provided in Section 4.2 or another provision of the Plan.
16.5 The Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares upon the exercise or settlement of any Award.
Fractional Shares.
16.6 If any one or more of the provisions (or any part thereof) of this Plan shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such provision shall be modified so as to make it valid, legal and enforceable, and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions (or any part thereof) of the Plan shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
.
16.7 Subject to local laws and procedures, each Participant may file with the Company a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any benefit under the Plan to which the Participant is entitled in the event of such Participant's death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit. Each designation will revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Company during the Participant's lifetime. If a married Participant designates a beneficiary other than the Participant's spouse, the effectiveness of such designation may be subject to the consent of the Participant's spouse. If a Participant dies without an effective designation of a beneficiary who is living at the time of the Participant's death, the Company will pay any remaining unpaid benefits to the Participant's legal representative.
Beneficiary Designation.
16.8 Participants shall have the status of general unsecured creditors of the Company. Any amounts payable to Participants pursuant to the Plan shall be unfunded and unsecured obligations for all purposes, including, without limitation, Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. No Participating Company shall be required to segregate any monies from its general funds, or to create any trusts, or establish any special accounts with respect to such obligations. The Company shall retain at all times beneficial ownership of any investments, including trust investments, which the Company may make to fulfill its payment obligations hereunder. Any investments or the creation or maintenance of any trust or any Participant account shall not create or constitute a trust or fiduciary relationship between the Committee or any Participating Company and a Participant, or otherwise create any vested or beneficial interest in any Participant or the Participant's creditors in any assets of any Participating Company. The Participants shall have no claim against any Participating Company for any changes in the value of any assets which may be invested or reinvested by the Company with respect to the Plan.
Unfunded Obligation.


