FILE:CRM/CRM-8K-20121120163146.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 20, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended October 31, 2012. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this current report on Form 8-K and the exhibits attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
David Havlek
salesforce.com
Investor Relations
415-536-2171
dhavlek@salesforce.com
Jane Hynes
salesforce.com
Public Relations
415-901-5079
jhynes@salesforce.com
 
 
 
 
 
Salesforce.com (NYSE: CRM), the enterprise cloud computing () company, today announced results for its fiscal third quarter ended October 31, 2012.
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif.  November 20, 2012 
http://www.salesforce.com/cloudcomputing/
"Salesforce.com is the first enterprise cloud computing company to exceed a $3 billion annual revenue run rate, with outstanding third quarter revenue growth at 35% in dollars and 37% in constant currency," said Marc Benioff, Chairman and CEO, . "Given the strong customer response to our next generation social and mobile cloud technologies, I'm delighted to announce that we expect to surpass a $4 billion annual revenue run rate during our fiscal year 2014."
salesforce.com
Salesforce.com delivered the following results for its fiscal third quarter:
: Total Q3 revenue was $788 million, an increase of 35% on a year-over-year basis. Subscription and support revenues were $741 million, an increase of 35% on a year-over-year basis. Professional services and other revenues were $48 million, an increase of 36% on a year-over-year basis.
Revenue
: Q3 GAAP net loss per share was ($1.55), and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.33.
Earnings per Share
The company recorded a one-time, non-cash charge to income tax expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2013 in the amount of $149 million to establish a valuation allowance against a significant portion of its deferred tax assets. This accounting treatment reflects the company's assessment of whether the deferred tax assets will be realizable in the near-future, but has no effect on the company's ability to utilize deferred tax assets, such as loss carryforwards and tax credits, to reduce future cash tax payments. The Company will continue to assess and record any necessary quarterly changes to the valuation allowance and the corresponding income tax expense or benefit.
The company's non-GAAP results exclude the effects of the $149 million charge related to the establishment of the tax valuation allowance, $26 million related to the quarterly change in the tax valuation allowance, $105 million in stock-based compensation expense, $26 million in amortization of purchased intangibles, and $6 million in net non-cash interest expense related to the company's
convertible senior notes. GAAP EPS calculations are based on a basic share count of approximately 142 million shares. Non-GAAP EPS calculations are based on approximately 150 million diluted shares outstanding during the quarter, including approximately four million shares associated with the company's convertible senior notes.
: Cash generated from operations for the fiscal third quarter was $106 million, a decrease of 18% on a year-over-year basis. Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities finished the quarter at $1.4 billion.
Cash
: Deferred revenue on the balance sheet as of October 31, 2012 was $1.29 billion, an increase of 41% on a year-over-year basis. Current deferred revenue increased by 35% year-over-year to $1.23 billion, benefited in part by longer invoice durations. Non-current deferred revenue increased by 414% year-over-year to $66 million. Unbilled deferred revenue, representing business that is contracted but unbilled and off balance sheet, ended the third quarter at approximately $3 billion, up from approximately $2.8 billion at the end of the fiscal second quarter.
Deferred Revenue
As of November 20, 2012, salesforce.com is initiating revenue, GAAP EPS and non-GAAP EPS guidance for its fiscal fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. In addition, for the full fiscal year 2013, the company is raising its revenue and non-GAAP EPS guidance and lowering its GAAP EPS guidance previously provided on August 23, 2012. The company is also initiating revenue guidance for fiscal year 2014.
: Revenue for the company's fourth fiscal quarter is projected to be in the range of $825 million to $830 million, an increase of 31% year-over-year.
Q4 FY13 Guidance
GAAP net loss per share is expected to be in the range of ($0.25) to ($0.23), while diluted non-GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $0.38 to $0.40. The non-GAAP estimate excludes the effects of stock-based compensation expense, expected to be approximately $107 million, amortization of purchased intangibles related to acquisitions, expected to be approximately $21 million, and net non-cash interest expense related to the convertible senior notes, expected to be approximately $6 million. EPS estimates assume a GAAP tax rate of approximately negative 7%, and a non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 40%, which reflect the estimated quarterly change in the tax valuation allowance. The GAAP EPS calculation assumes an average basic share count of approximately 145 million shares, and the non-GAAP EPS calculation assumes an average fully diluted share count of approximately 155 million shares.
: Revenue for the company's full fiscal year 2013 is projected to be in the range of $3.041 billion to $3.046 billion, an increase of 34% year-over-year.
Full Year FY13 Guidance
For the company's full fiscal year 2013, GAAP net loss per share is expected to be in the range of ($2.02) to ($2.00) while diluted non-GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $1.50 to $1.52. The lowering of the GAAP net loss per share range is primarily as a result of the non-cash tax expense in Q3 as discussed above. The non-GAAP estimate excludes the effects of the fiscal third quarter charge to establish a tax valuation allowance of approximately $149 million, stock-based compensation expense, expected to be approximately $379 million, amortization of purchased intangibles related to acquisitions, expected to be approximately $88 million, and net non-cash interest expense related to the convertible senior notes, expected to be approximately $24 million. EPS estimates assume a GAAP tax rate of approximately negative 114%, and a non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 37%, which reflect the estimated annual change in the tax valuation allowance. Due to the valuation allowance, however, the GAAP tax rate is difficult to forecast and volatile. The GAAP EPS calculation assumes an average basic share count of approximately 141 million shares, and the non-GAAP EPS calculation assumes an average fully diluted share count of approximately 149 million shares.
: Revenue for the company's full fiscal year 2014 is projected to be in the range of approximately $3.80 billion to approximately $3.85 billion. The company will provide its expectations for FY14 GAAP and non-GAAP EPS when it announces its fourth quarter fiscal year 2013 results in February 2013.
Full Year FY14 Guidance
The following is a per share reconciliation of GAAP EPS to non-GAAP diluted EPS guidance for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year:
 
 
Quarterly Conference Call
Salesforce.com will host a conference call to discuss its third quarter fiscal year 2013 results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time today. A live audio webcast of the conference call, together with detailed financial information, can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations Web site at . In addition, an archive of the audiocast can be accessed through the same link. Participants who choose to call in to the conference call can do so by dialing domestically 866-901-SFDC or 866-901-7332 and internationally at +1 706-902-1764, passcode salesforce.com or 51384041. A replay will be available at 800-585-8367 or +1 855-859-2056, passcode 51384041, until midnight (Eastern Time) December 20, 2012.
http://www.salesforce.com/investor
About salesforce.com
Founded in 1999, salesforce.com is the enterprise leader. Using salesforce.com's social and mobile cloud technologies, companies can connect with customers, partners and employees in entirely new ways. Based on salesforce.com's real-time, multitenant architecture, the company's platform and apps give customers the tools to create a social front office and revolutionize the way they sell, service, market, collaborate, work and innovate.
cloud computing
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any unreleased services or features referenced in this or other press releases or public statements are not currently available and may not be delivered on time or at all. Customers who purchase salesforce.com applications should make their purchase decisions based upon features that are currently available. Salesforce.com has headquarters in San Francisco, with offices in Europe and Asia, and trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CRM." For more information please visit , or call 1-800-NO-SOFTWARE
http://salesforce.com
This press release includes information about non-GAAP EPS and non-GAAP tax rates (collectively the "non-GAAP financial measures"). Non-GAAP EPS estimates exclude the impact of the following non-cash items: stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, the net amortization of debt discount on the company's convertible senior notes, certain one-time, non-cash tax charges, quarterly changes to the valuation allowance, as well as the tax consequences associated with these items. The purpose of the non-GAAP tax rate is to quantify the excluded tax consequences of the excluded expense items. These non-GAAP estimates are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The method used to produce non-GAAP financial measures is not computed according to GAAP and may differ from the methods used by other companies. Non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with the company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
The primary purpose of these non-GAAP measures is to provide supplemental information that may prove useful to investors who wish to consider the impact of certain non-cash items on the company's operating performance. Non-cash stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, and the net amortization of debt discount on the company's convertible senior notes are being excluded from the company's FY13 financial results because the decisions which gave rise to these expenses were not made to increase revenue in a particular period, but were made for the company's long-term benefit over multiple periods. While strategic decisions, such as those to issue stock-based compensation, acquire a company, or issue convertible senior notes, are made to further the company's long-term strategic objectives and impact the company's statement of operations under GAAP measures, these items affect multiple periods and management is not able to change or affect these items in any particular period. As such, supplementing GAAP disclosure with non-GAAP disclosure using the non-GAAP measures provides management with an additional view of operational performance by excluding expenses that are not directly related to performance in any particular period, and management uses both GAAP and non-GAAP measures when planning, monitoring, and evaluating the company's performance.
In addition, the majority of the company's industry peers report non-GAAP operating results that exclude certain non-cash or non-recurring items, such as certain one-time charges. As significant unusual or discrete events occur, such as the valuation allowance against the company's deferred tax assets, the results may be excluded in the period in which the events occur. Management believes that the provision of supplemental non-GAAP information will enable a more complete comparison of the company's relative performance.
Specifically, management is excluding the following items from its non-GAAP EPS for Q3 and its non-GAAP estimates for Q4 and FY13:
 
 
 
 
 
: This press release contains forward-looking statements about expected GAAP revenue and GAAP and non-GAAP EPS for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2013 and the full fiscal year, the company's expected revenue run rate and revenues in fiscal 2014, the company's expected tax rates, stock-based compensation expenses, amortization of purchased intangibles and debt discount, shares outstanding, and deferred tax asset valuation allowances. The achievement or success of the matters covered by such forward-looking statements involves risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If any such risks or uncertainties materialize or if any of the assumptions prove incorrect, the company's results could differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements we make.
"Safe harbor" statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
The risks and uncertainties referred to above include - but are not limited to - risks associated with possible fluctuations in the company's financial and operating results; the company's rate of growth and anticipated revenue run rate, including the company's ability to convert deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue into revenue and, as appropriate, cash flow, and the continued growth and ability to maintain deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue; errors, interruptions or delays in the company's service or the company's Web hosting; breaches of the company's security measures; the financial impact of any previous and future acquisitions; the nature of the company's business model; the company's ability to continue to release, and gain customer acceptance of, new and improved versions of the company's service; successful customer deployment and utilization of the company's existing and future services; changes in the company's sales cycle; competition; various financial aspects of the company's subscription model; unexpected increases in attrition or decreases in new business; the emerging markets in which the company operates; unique aspects of entering or expanding in international markets, the company's ability to hire, retain and motivate employees and manage the company's growth; changes in the company's customer base; technological developments; regulatory developments; litigation related to intellectual property and other matters, and any related claims, negotiations and settlements; unanticipated changes in the company's effective tax rate; fluctuations in the number of shares we have outstanding and the price of such shares; foreign currency exchange rates; collection of receivables; interest rates; factors affecting our deferred tax assets and ability to value and utilize them, including the timing of when we once again achieve profitability on a pre-tax basis; the expenses associated with the company's real estate and office facilities space; and general developments in the economy, financial markets, and credit markets.
Further information on these and other factors that could affect the company's financial results is included in the reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the company's Form 10-Q that will be filed for the third quarter ended October 31, 2012 and our Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012. These documents are available on the SEC Filings section of the Investor Information section of the company's website at www.salesforce.com/investor.
Salesforce.com, inc. assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
Copyright 2012 salesforce.com, inc. All rights reserved. Salesforce, Chatter, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud, Work.com, AppExchange, Salesforce Platform, and others are trademarks of salesforce.com, inc. Other names used herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
(in thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations
As a percentage of total revenues:
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(in thousands)
(Unaudited)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
Additional Metrics
(Unaudited)
 
Selected Off-Balance Sheet Accounts
Unbilled Deferred Revenue, a non-GAAP measure
Unbilled deferred revenue was approximately $3.0 billion as of October 31, 2012 and $2.2 billion as of January 31, 2012. Unbilled deferred revenue represents future billings under our non-cancelable subscription agreements that have not been invoiced and, accordingly, are not recorded in deferred revenue.
Supplemental Revenue Analysis
 
We present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying business performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than United States dollars are converted into United States dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the end of each quarter for growth rate calculations presented, rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during that period.
Supplemental Diluted Share Count Information
(in thousands)
 
 
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
Free cash flow analysis, a non-GAAP measure
(in thousands)
 
Our free cash flow analysis includes GAAP net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. The capital expenditures balance does not include any costs related to the purchase and activities related to the building of our campus and strategic investments.
Comprehensive Loss
(in thousands)
 
salesforce.com, inc.
GAAP RESULTS RECONCILED TO NON-GAAP RESULTS
The following table reflects selected salesforce.com GAAP results reconciled to non-GAAP results
(in thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
salesforce.com, inc.
COMPUTATION OF BASIC AND DILUTED GAAP AND NON-GAAP NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE
(in thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 


