FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20031124085851.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
Item 12 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 24, 2003, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended November 2, 2003, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
This Current Report on Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements, which reflect the registrant's current expectations about its future performance, including statements concerning marketing investments, sales and earnings. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the registrant. Please refer to the registrant's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The registrant disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
     today reported diluted earnings per share for the first quarter ended November 2, 2003 of $.51. This result compares to $.47 recorded in the year-ago quarter, which was before the cumulative effect of accounting change. In the year-ago quarter, the company recorded a one-time non-cash accounting charge of $.08 per share related to the adoption of SFAS No. 142.
CAMDEN, NJ, November 24, 2003Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
     For the first quarter, net sales rose 12 percent to $1,909 million. Earnings before interest and taxes were $354 million, up 7 percent versus the year-ago quarter. Sales for the quarter reflect the following:
     Net earnings were $211 million versus $192 million a year earlier before the cumulative effect of accounting change.
 
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We have delivered a good first quarter and we are on target to deliver our earnings for the year. Our highest priority is to revitalize our U.S. soup business through the introduction of more convenient, higher quality products. Strong consumer demand in the quarter for our M'm! M'm! Good! To Go' line of ready-to-serve soups in microwavable containers, including Campbell's Soup at Hand,' Chunky,' and Select' soups, demonstrates that our strategy is on target. In fact, consumer acceptance has significantly exceeded our expectations and we are now working to increase our production capacity.
     While our focus has been on successfully launching our soup convenience platform, we recognize the intense competitive activity in the marketplace, including broader price discounting. Despite this heavy promotional spending by competition, our key convenience brands  Chunky,' Select,' and Soup at Hand'  in aggregate grew shipments in excess of 10 percent. We are confident that we have strong, competitive promotional programs in place in our more traditional ready-to-serve and condensed businesses as we enter the peak months of the soup season."
     Conant added, "In our broader portfolio beyond soup, we are seeing many examples of strong marketplace performance, including V8' beverages, Pepperidge Farm,' Arnott's,' and our dry soup businesses in Europe. The investments we are making in quality, packaging, new products, and improved marketing are having an impact."
     For the second quarter of fiscal 2004, the company expects earnings per share to be in the range of $.52 to $.54, which is below prior year due to planned marketing investment. The company is maintaining its earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2004 at
 
approximately $1.58. In fiscal 2003, the company reported earnings per share of $1.52, before the cumulative effect of accounting change.
     A summary of segment results for the first quarter follows.
North America Soup and Away From Home
     North America Soup and Away From Home sales of $805 million were up 8 percent, driven by price increases on U.S. condensed soup and lower promotional spending. Operating earnings of $221 million were up 8 percent. Sales for the quarter break down as follows:
     In the U.S., ready-to-serve shipments rose 6 percent, condensed shipments declined 7 percent and broth shipments rose 14 percent.
     Further details include the following:
 
approximately 10 percent of grocery all commodity volume (ACV). Test results in the first quarter have been positive.
North America Sauces and Beverages
     North America Sauces and Beverages sales rose 7 percent to $327 million and operating earnings increased 1 percent to $78 million. Sales for the quarter break down as follows:
      -  Volume and mix increased 3 percent
      -  Reduced promotional spending added 4 percent
     Further details include the following:
 
Biscuits and Confectionery
     Biscuits and Confectionery sales increased 20 percent to $491 million and operating earnings rose 10 percent to $46 million. Sales for the quarter break down as follows:
Operating earnings were driven primarily by currency and acquisitions.
     Further details include the following:
 
International Soup and Sauces
     International Soup and Sauces sales rose 18 percent to $286 million, and operating earnings rose 35 percent to $35 million. Sales for the quarter break down as follows:
Operating earnings growth was driven primarily by volume gains and currency.
     Further details include the following:
 
Conference Call
     The company will host a conference call to discuss these results on November 24, 2003 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-888-603-6970 and non-U.S. participants at 1-210-839-8500. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is "Campbell Soup" and the conference leader is Len Griehs. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at http://www.campbellsoup.com and can be accessed by clicking on the Webcast banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight November 28, 2003 at 1-800-938-1164 or 1-402-998-0567.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains "forward-looking statements" which reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, new product introductions, and quality improvements on sales and earnings. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
 
About Campbell Soup Company
     Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high quality soup, sauces, beverage, biscuits, confectionery and prepared food products. The company is 134 years old, with nearly $7 billion in annual sales and a portfolio of more than 20 market-leading brands. In North America, leading brands include "Campbell's" soups and "Swanson" broths, "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, "Pace" Mexican sauces, "Prego" pasta sauces, and "Franco-American" canned pastas and gravies. In Europe, leading brands include "Erasco" soups in Germany and "Liebig" soups in France, and the company also has several dry soup and sauce brands: "Batchelors," "Oxo," "Lesieur," "Royco," "Liebig," "Heisse Tasse," "Bl Band," "Erin," and "McDonnells." Additional European brands include "Homepride" sauces and "Fray Bentos" canned meats in the United Kingdom, and "Devos Lemmens" mayonnaise and cold sauces in Belgium and France. In the Asia Pacific region, the company markets "Arnott's" biscuits, "Campbell's" soups and stock, and "Swanson" broths. "Godiva" chocolates are sold around the world. The company is ably supported by 25,000 full-time employees worldwide. For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website at www.campbellsoup.com.
 
In connection with the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," the company recognized a non-cash charge of $31 (net of a $17 tax benefit) as a cumulative effect of accounting change for the write-down of goodwill of one business unit in the first quarter of fiscal 2003.
Certain reclassifications were made to prior year financial statements.
 
In connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the company recognized a non-cash charge of $31 (net of a $17 tax benefit), or $.08 per share, as a cumulative effect of accounting change for the write-down of goodwill of one business unit in the first quarter of fiscal 2003.
 


