FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20030904111143.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Item 9  Regulation FD Disclosure
The information in this Current Report, including the attached exhibits, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On September 4, 2003, Campbell Soup Company made a presentation at the Prudential Securities "Back to School" Conference. A copy of the slide presentation is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the text of the registrant's prepared remarks is attached as Exhibit 99.2.
This Current Report on Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements which reflect the registrant's current expectations about its future performance. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. These include, but are not limited to, the inherent risks associated with trade and consumer acceptance of product improvements and new product introductions, the effectiveness of promotional programs and new advertising, uncertainty around predicting trade inventory movements by trade customers and other factors described in the registrant's most recent Form 10-K, as updated from time to time by the registrant in its subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the registrant. The registrant disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
Good morning! I'm delighted to have this opportunity to speak with you about the many developments that are driving renewed growth in Campbell Soup Company.
(Logo)
It's been three years since we were last at this conference and now is an ideal time for me to return to the fold, so to speak. I say this because we've just completed the second year of our three year Transformation Plan, launched in July 2001.
We're right at the start of a new soup season where you, and all our customers and consumers, are going to see a very different, much more competitive  I repeat: - Campbell in the marketplace. In fact, I believe we're now on the verge of reaping the benefits of all the groundwork we've laid over the past two years. We're now far better positioned to delight our customers and our consumers with a full array of compelling, more convenient products, supported by strengthened marketing propositions.
(Shelving)
much more competitive
However, before getting into specifics, there are two housekeeping items to address.
First, I will not get into our Fiscal'03 performance details, as we'll release our earnings next week. For the same reason, we'll be unable to respond to any questions relating to our last Fiscal Year.
(Housekeeping items  Words/List B1)
Second, would you please read this forward-looking statement.
(Housekeeping items  Words/List B2)
(Forward Statement  Words)
And now to this morning's agenda.
My starting point will be a brief review of the progress we're making in our Transformation Plan, along with an evolution of our strategies that builds on what we've learned these past couple of years. We've accomplished a lot and "The table is clearly set" for stronger performance.
(Agenda  Words/List B1)
I'll follow with a progress report on the many new initiatives that we have in hand for our U.S. Soup business in the upcoming soup season. This will be the main part of my presentation.
(Agenda  Words/List B2)
I'll continue with an update on our North American Food and Beverage businesses. Here, we're gaining considerable traction from the investments
(Agenda  Words/List B3)
 
we've been making in basic marketing and new product development over the past couple of years.
I'll end with just a few comments on our Baking and Snacking businesses where we have unusually strong category positions.
(Agenda  Words/List B4)
In total, the businesses I'll be talking about this morning represent over 80% of Campbell's EBIT. Our remaining businesses are all reasonably on track and we have solid plans in place to drive their performance. Any issues we face in these businesses are manageable.
(Other businesses  Words)
Let's start with the progress we've made with our Transformation Plan. About the time I was speaking with you last February at the Scottsdale CAGNY conference, we were working through our strategic plan for the fiscal 04 to 06 time frame.
(Agenda  Words/List H1)
As part of that effort, and at the halfway point of our Transformation Plan, we went back and did a reality check, as we did right at the beginning of my tenure with Campbell Soup Company in early 2001.
(Transformation Process  Chart)
We asked ourselves: "How are we doing? Would any adjustment to our strategies help us unlock the latent potential in the Campbell Soup Company in a better way?"
(How are we doing?  Words B1)
There were two major conclusions. First, we had accomplished a great deal over the past two years....and, I believe, it is about to pay off. As I noted earlier, "The table is clearly set" for improved performance in fiscal 2004 and beyond.
(How are we doing?  Words B2)
Second, we learned that we had an opportunity to evolve and strengthen our strategies as we entered the home stretch of our Plan.
(How are we doing?  Words B3)
Let me elaborate a little on each point.
We have rebuilt and revitalized the organization almost from scratch. This is, perhaps, our singular, most important achievement. We have promoted or hired nearly 200 of our top 350 people over the past 24 months. At the same time, we've significantly improved the engagement of our entire employee population.
(Rebuilt org.  Picture/Words B1)
Encouragingly, through all these changes, our organization, while certainly still developing, has performed increasingly well.
(Rebuilt org.  Picture/Words B2)
Over the past two years, we've strengthened our total business across all aspects of the value chain, starting with Research and Development. R&D has done outstanding work.
(Value Chain  Chart/ B1)
R&D has led the effort to upgrade our product quality across the board. Take R&D's work in U.S. Soup as the prime example. Over the past two years,
(Value Chain  Chart/ B2)
 
we have upgraded the quality of about 75% of our soup SKUs in a consumer perceptible fashion. Our increasing use of cold blend technology has played an important role in this effort. More telling, though, is that our quality improvements represent some 80% of our soup volume.
This means that our U.S. consumers will purchase, on an annualized basis, nearly two cans of soups at a far higher quality level than ever before. These staggering numbers are illustrative of the level of our commitment to the quality ideal at Campbell Soup Company.
(Value Chain  Chart/ B2.1)
billion
Campbell's
Two billion cans.
R&D has also led the development of many new products both in U.S. Soup and in our Food and Beverages division. Our convenience line is the most visible in fiscal 03. I'll talk more about all this in a moment. Other large initiatives are on the slide.
(Value Chain  Chart/ B3)
M'm! M'm! Good! To Go
Moving on across the value chain, you can see some other major initiatives we've been working on since we launched the Transformation Plan. In Procurement, we've saved at least $100 million in costs, leveraging our new strategic sourcing initiative.
(Value Chain  Chart/ B4)
Manufacturing has played the leading role in the conversion of many of our condensed soups to the cold blend technology, and the conversion of our entire line of condensed soups to Easy Open Lids. Other Manufacturing initiatives are on the slide.
(Value Chain  Chart/ B5)
In Distribution, we've made our Global Supply Chain much more customer focused. In the last published Cannondale customer survey, Campbell showed the highest improvement among all consumer products companies measured.
(Value Chain  Chart/ B6)
Finishing the value chain, I'd first single out the role Marketing has played in developing our new umbrella advertising campaign for U.S. Soup. I'll expand on this campaign and show you our new commercials later.
(Value Chain  Chart/ B7)
Also, we have vastly improved our Sales capabilities. Our Sales organization has been in the forefront of creative new approaches to shelving, and to restructuring our incentive programs to better align our efforts with our customers' needs.
(Value Chain  Chart/ B8)
Our customers have clearly noticed our improved sales capabilities. For example, we were delighted to be recognized by Wal Mart as their "Co-Managed Supplier" of the Year and by Target and Hy Vee as their "Vendor of the Year". Back in 2001, we wouldn't even have been on these customers' radar screens at award time!
(Vendor awards  Words/Logos)
To sum up on our progress: We've accomplished a lot across the value chain....
(Value Chain summary  Chart B1)
 
And we intend to build on it. Here's how.
(Value Chain summary  Chart B2)
Over the past 18-24 months, we have learned that we can do more to exploit the full potential that our strong brands, appealing categories, solid financial profile, and increasingly talented workforce offer. The clearest example is in our hot-filled, shelf stable, thermal businesses, which account for well over two-thirds of our EBIT.
(Building blocks  Words)
Our high margin Food and Beverage businesses are a case in point. Over the past couple of years, it has become increasingly evident that our significant investments in soup manufacturing and technology have broader applicability to other thermal products. For example, our ever-strengthening vegetable processing technologies have already been beneficial to sauces and to salsa. In the future, they will also help us to improve the flavors of our range of juices.
(Growth opportunities  Pace & Prego products)
Prego
Pace
V8
Our thermal businesses in North American  both Soup and Food and Beverages  dominate our consolidated results and have the highest return on invested capital.
(Thermal  Words/List B1)
It is also in these businesses that we have the highest degree of competitive insulation.
(Thermal  Words/List B2)
Thermal processing is where our technology, brands, and scale complement each other most powerfully. Consider the following:
(Thermal  Words/List B3)
We have significant vegetable processing technologies.
(Thermal  Words/List B4)
We have powerful, extendable, icon trademarks in huge, on-trend categories, with number one or two market share positions.
(Thermal  Words/List B5)
And we have significant scale and cost advantages with large capital investments, leverageable supply chain capabilities, and increasingly strong marketing and sales capabilities.
(Thermal  Words/List B6)
All this makes us a uniquely formidable competitor in thermal processed foods and beverages.... particularly in North America. I believe that we can further maximize our potential by focusing more acutely on these businesses as we move forward.
(Thermal  Words/List B7)
Accordingly, as this slide illustrates, we have evolved our core strategies. Let me comment briefly on the three key changes. First, and flowing directly from the discussion of our broader thermal portfolio, we're going to shift our portfolio strategy.
(New strategies  Words/Chart)
 
We'll better leverage our consumer advantaged thermal capabilities, our strong brands, and our scale in North America for accelerated growth, not just our soup capabilities.
(New strategies  Words/Chart H1)
all
Now, while on the subject of our portfolio, I would draw your attention to a recent European research report on obesity.
We're favorably positioned on this issue. The report listed Campbell Soup Company as holding the number two ranking overall, and the leading position of all North American based food companies, in terms of its product portfolio being "Healthy". The authors concluded that fully 77% of our portfolio should be viewed either as "Healthy" or "Better than Healthy". This is a very solid figure that puts us in a very competitive position as the "wellness/obesity" issue moves to center stage.
(Obesity rankings  Table)
Our second change in our strategies concerns New Growth Avenues. We'll increasingly focus our large-scale initiatives against thermal products, so as to reap the benefits of our scale in this arena as well. Accordingly, we are embedding this strategy within our first strategy to increase the focus on our thermal businesses as a whole.
(New strategies  Words/Chart H2)
The third change is that we intend to be much more aggressive in pursuing productivity savings across our entire business system, not just procurement and manufacturing, our primary focus areas until now. In particular, G&A expenses, along with non-working marketing spending, are being very tightly managed.
(New strategies  Words/Chart H3)
Now I'll turn to my next topic and give you an update on the significant progress we've made on the first strategy, namely to focus against our consumer advantaged thermal capabilities in North America. So, let's move to some specifics in U.S. Soup.
(Agenda  List H2)
To frame this discussion, I'll start with the four strategies we're now following in our U.S. Soup business.
(U.S. Soup  Products)
First, we'll more aggressively drive growth in Ready To Serve soups. Here I want to add that we fully intend to pioneer new soup segments by better leveraging our thermal technology. We're doing this already with our convenience platform.
(U.S. Soup strategies  List B1)
M'm! M is! Good! To Go
Next, we'll profitably improve condensed soup trends by focusing on large viable segments where we have leverageable advantages.
(U.S. Soup strategies  List B2)
These large viable segments are icons, such as tomato soup, kids soups  especially chicken noodle  and cooking soups such as cream of mushroom where we have limited to no branded competition.
(Icon soups  Products B1)
 
These segments account for about 75% of all condensed soups, and they continue to perform better than the balance of the condensed portfolio.
(Icon soups  Products B2)
As a specific example of our renewed focus on these stronger segments of condensed soup, here you can see how we're updating the packaging for our kid's line of to focus in a more robust fashion against the target audience  kids! Incidentally, while we're on , we've made significant product quality improvements across the entire line of nine soups, leveraging our cold blend technology. Sales have responded well.
(Fun Favorites packaging evolution  Photo and words)
Fun Favorites
Fun Favorites
Our third strategy for U.S. Soup is to simplify our portfolio and better leverage its scale. Here, for example, we do see opportunities to prune under-performing SKUs. Also, the soup aisle is complex and some simplification is in order.
(U.S. Soup strategies  List B3)
Our fourth strategy is to further align ourselves with the customers who are winning with consumers.
(U.S. Soup strategies  List B4)
With these growth strategies as the framework, I'll update you on our progress in the marketplace over the last several months.
I'll begin with our new convenience platform. As background, I'll reiterate the observations I made about convenience last February. As I said then, to capitalize on the huge opportunity open to us in convenience, we had to drive against a variety of imperatives.
(
M'm! M'm! Good! To Go
 Logo and Products)
M'm! M'm! Good! To Go
To succeed, we had to make soup single serve, more portable, and more snackable. We had to make it easier to shop. We had to make it even more readily available. And we had to make it easier to prepare.
(Convenience imperative  List Bi)
Then, to tie everything together, we needed highly effective marketing and sales programs.
(Convenience imperative  List B2)
I'm pleased to report that we've made significant progress across the board.
We've launched seven new varieties in microwaveable cups.
(SAH  Photo B1)
Soup at Hand
We've launched six microwaveable items.
(SAH & Chunky  Photo B2)
Chunky
And then we've also launched four items in microwaveable bowls.
(SAH  Photo B3)
Select
In essence, we've created a compelling new growth platform in soup, squarely focused on "heat and eat" convenience.
(SAH  Photo/Words B4)
The launch of this convenience platform builds on our consumer success with Campbell's . The year one performance of places the brand in the top 3% of all new food and beverage items launched in the past six years, as measured by IRI.
(Conv. Platform  List B1)
Soup at Hand
Soup At Hand
 
With , we've also found that one in two purchases are incremental to the category as a whole, and incremental to the Ready to Serve segment. This is because we're satisfying new eating occasions and attracting new users. In so doing, we're making soup consumption more approachable through convenience.
(Conv. Platform  List B2)
Soup at Hand
Very importantly, this highlights the opportunity to accelerate growth of the entire soup at the expense of other meal alternatives.
(Conv. Platform  List B3)
category
Our trade customers are extremely enthusiastic about the launch of this convenience platform and are supporting it with major promotions.
For example, despite the common saying "There's no such thing as a free lunch", we just made it happen! Wal Mart and Campbell's will likely enter the Guiness Book of Records with our promotion "Soup Up Your Lunch", the largest "free lunch" in history.
(Wal Mart Promotion  Photo 1)
In the space of four hours Wal Mart gave away about one million free samples of our products for consumers to try.
(Wal Mart Promotion  Photo 2)
M'm! M'm! Good! To Go
One last point, this is not only Campbell's largest new product launch in at least the last 15 years, it is also, by far, the most efficient. We about halved the time it took to get our new products into the stores, with highly creative approaches to distribution.
(Largest launch  Words/List B1)
We achieved some 80% ACV distribution for all 17 new items in a period of six to eight weeks. Our historic performance has been to achieve this level in 12 to 14 weeks.
(Largest launch  Words/List B2)
As another measure of what we accomplished, we shipped in one day  Yes! Just one day  what we typically expect to ship for a new item in six weeks.
(Largest launch  Words /List B3)
Turning now to ease of shopping, our customers and consumers continue to be enthusiastic about our program. We'd barely begun this gravity feed shelving program back in February. Now we're in the process of rolling it out for condensed soups in thousands of grocery stores.
(IQ Shelf Maximizer- Photo 1)
IQ Shelf Maximiser
There's no doubt that gravity feeding fixtures, arranged to match how consumers think about soups, make the whole aisle much easier to shop and we're working with our customers to tailor implementation for each account. Additionally, from our test market results, we did see positive category trends from these fixtures.
(IQ Shelf Maximizer- Photo with consumer 2)
 
We anticipate that we'll have IQ Shelf Maximizer operational in about half the ACV within 18 months. In my view, three years out, this shelving system will be in all our high volume outlets.
(IQ Shelf Maximizer- Photo with consumer 3)
Turning now to availability, our new convenience platform has opened up several, large, new opportunities.
(Convenience Imperatives  List H3)
M'm! M'm! Good! To Go
Take our progress with Target, as an example. Target had this end-aisle promotion for our convenience platform. We're especially pleased about this, as soup products have not historically had much of a presence in Target. This time, though, things were different. In the space of five weeks we had orders for more than 200,000 cases of our soups.
(Convenience Target in store  Photo)
"M'm! M'm! Good! To Go"
In C-stores, too, we've been very successful with our convenience platform. This channel is an important source of trial for us and we've sold some 20,000 shippers, each containing up to 48 cups, into C-stores over the past couple of months.
(C-Store Shipper  Photo)
In Drug Stores, too, we've had another "win" with convenience. This is also a channel where historically our soups have been in very limited distribution. We changed the paradigm with . Working with key customers, such as CVS, we developed these special end-aisle displays. We've shipped 3,500 to CVS alone. This goes way beyond anything we've done before with CVS in soup.
(Drug Store with SAH end aisle display  Photo)
Soup at Hand
Ease of preparation is also a key driver of convenience. Here, too, we have major progress to report. The long-talked of conversion of our entire condensed line to Easy Open lids is very rapidly becoming a reality for our consumers. It's been a reality for our manufacturing organization for months. All our plants are now producing Easy Open cans.
(EZO cans and consumers Photo)
Many stores already have large displays of the new packaging and, within four to six weeks, our best estimate is that 80% of the ACV will be in the highly differentiated Easy Open format.
(EZO in store  Photo)
Our line of 10 Ready To Serve soups is another innovation aimed squarely at ease of preparation. Research showed that there was a large body of consumers who wanted a high quality, convenient, Ready To Serve soup, priced between Condensed soups and premium Ready To Serve products.
(Kitchen Classics three Cans  Photo)
Kitchen Classics
We've bridged that gap and created a branded value segment with our launch of . Nevertheless, and a point I want to stress, is a high quality line of soups, using our cold blend technologies. Additionally, has excellent margins.
(Kitchen Classics entire line  Photo)
Kitchen Classics
Kitchen Classics
Kitchen Classics
 
That completes the discussion of our innovation in U.S. Soup products, packaging, distribution, promotion and selling over the last six months or so.
In just this short period of time we've launched 17 new items under the convenience line.
(Innovation Summary  Words/List B1)
M'm! M'm! Good! To Go
We've improved many of our condensed soups with cold blend and other technologies we've converted our entire line of condensed soups to Easy Open lids.
(Innovation Summary  Words/List B2)
and
We've launched 10 items in the range.
(Innovation Summary  Words/List B3)
Kitchen Classics
We've broadened and deepened our distribution.
(Innovation Summary  Words/List B4)
We've halved the time it takes us to get our new products on display in the grocery stores.
(Innovation Summary  Words/List B5)
And we have continued to improve the shopping experience with our program.
(Innovation Summary  Words/List B6)
IQ Shelf Maximiser
I'd put this "transformational" effort up against any other company in the food industry.... and, we're just getting started.
Now I'll turn to our integrated marketing initiatives that are starting to drive consumption as this soup season gets underway. To frame this discussion, let me give you some background.
(Marketing  Words/List B1)
Historically, our TV media spending for U.S. soup was fragmented, being spread over half dozen different brands, several different messages, and multiple executions.
(Marketing  Words/List B2)
We concluded that we needed to strengthen our approach. We needed to find a single, umbrella message for the Campbell Soup brand that was both compelling and motivating.
(Marketing  Words/List B3)
Our core idea, and one that most definitely resonated with consumers when we tested it, is that Campbell Soup is food, made with ingredients, that delivers satisfaction, fast.
(Core idea  Words B1)
real
real
real
real
In short, Campbell Soup is in all the attributes consumers want in today's busy world. The campaign idea breaks through all the clutter by interrupting
(Core idea  Words B2)
REAL
 
people in "real" life situations and convinces them that Campbell Soup is the better simple meal choice. So, this all translates into four key elements that are "must haves" in our advertising.
First, real people: We want to capture true-life situations as they happen.
(Umbrella campaign elements  Words/Photo B1)
Second, competitive meal choices: Depending on the target audience and the occasion, we're very clear that Campbell Soup is a better choice than another simple meal.
(Umbrella campaign elements  Words/Photo B2)
Third, an interruptive moment: For this we use Gordon Elliot. Gordon is a well-established food and lifestyle personality who is famous for his work on the Food Network. Gordon's earlier "DoorKnock Dinners" show in which he interrupted real people to talk about food proved a perfect fit for Campbell's.
(Umbrella campaign elements  Words/Photo B3)
And fourth, a call to action: "Make it Campbell's Instead". This says it all.
(Umbrella campaign elements  Words/Photo B4)
Let's take a look at just a few of our commercials in this expansive new campaign. In all, we plan to produce and run over 30 spots and spend some $100 million on this campaign in this fiscal year.
(Blank)
So, don't forget, when next shopping for a simple meal, do yourselves, and us here at Campbell Soup, a favor, just:
(Make it Campbell's Instead  Words)
"Make it Campbell's Instead!"
Now I'll turn to the third item on the agenda  progress in the other part of our North American Thermal portfolio  Food and Beverages.
(Agenda  Words H3)
These are attractive high margin businesses requiring innovation, supported by strong consumer marketing. We've launched several new products, all competitively positioned with effective levels of consumer support.
(Food & Bev.  Words/List)
In Beverages, we're back on track again after a number of challenging years. I'll share some examples of our new product activities with you now. There is much more in the pipeline.
(Beverage products  Photo)
In January, we launched . This has been a meaningful success and has helped us stabilize the franchise.
(V8 Splash Smoothies Words & Photo)
V8 Splash Smoothies
V8 Splash
 
Good growth from Diet and lemonade have provided additional impetus.
(V8 Splash Diet, and 64 oz PET  Words & Photo)
V8 Splash
V8 Splash
Also contributing has been strong performance from and Tomato Juice, with sales solidly ahead of a year ago. These line extensions have been a big factor.
(V8 and Campbell's Tomato Juice  Words & Photo)
V8
Campbell's
We'll keep this renewed momentum going with the imminent launch of our first organic product  Organic Tomato Juice. And, as I mentioned earlier, there is more to come in the months ahead.
(Campbell's organic tomato juice  Words & Photo)
Campbell's
In our food portfolio, we've revitalized sauces with the largest initiatives we've taken on Pace since we acquired the brand some 10 years ago.
(Pace products Words & Photo)
Pace
In June, we launched Mexican Creations, a convenient line of cooking sauces that makes main meals easy.
(Pace Mex. Creations  Words & Photo B1)
Pace
We also launched Enchilada Sauce in glass, a first in the category.
(Pace Mex. Creations and Ench. sauce Words & Photo B2)
Pace
These launches are taking the franchise beyond its traditional picante base into exciting new areas, perfectly aligned with consumer trends.
(Pace Mex. Creations and Ench. sauce Words & Photo B3)
Pace
Here are two commercials we've run to launch Mexican Creations.
Pace
(Blank)
Continuing on, with we've been focusing on building the equity in our base brand while broadening appeal by launching a line of high quality, Hearty Meat Sauces in three flavors. Here are two of the commercials we're using to support Prego this year.
(Prego Words & Photo)
Prego
Prego's
Prego
(Blank)
To sum up on our North American Thermal businesses, it is increasingly clear that these businesses can provide a growth engine for the Campbell Soup Company.
(NA Thermal Summary  Words/List B1)
We are competitively well positioned in heat-treated, shelf stable products with very strong brands, superior technologies, and significant capital investments.
(NA Thermal Summary  Words/List B2)
 
Convenience is a huge opportunity to rejuvenate the entire soup category and, although we've made a good start, we're still barely scratching the surface.
(NA Thermal Summary  Words/List B3)
We have already recognized the opportunities to leverage our strengthened capabilities in soup into our broader thermal portfolio in North America Food and Beverages.
(NA Thermal Summary  Words/List B4)
And, finally, we will leverage these capabilities to an increasing extent going forward.
(NA Thermal Summary  Words/List B5)
And now I'll turn to the last item on my agenda, a few comments on our next largest set of businesses  Baking and Snacking  Pepperidge Farm in the U.S. and Arnott's internationally. Both of these businesses are doing well and I'll say more about them next February at CAGNY.
(Agenda  Words H4)
At Pepperidge Farm, solid marketing and compelling new products across the product range of cookies, crackers, and bakery have again been driving the business.
(PF Products  Words and Photo)
In cookies, though still in the early stages, the launch of Pepperidge Farm Minis is doing exceptionally well. Their added convenience for "on the go" snacking is a big plus. The mini format fills an, until now, unmet consumer need in our cookie line.
(PF Minis  Words and Photo B1)
In crackers, the launch of has been the most successful line extension in the history of this icon brand....and we expect it to do even better this fiscal year. Here is the introductory commercial.
(PF Minis & Goldfish  Words and Photo B2)
Goldfish Colors
Goldfish
(Blank)
Finally, I'd just mention that our new Bloomfield, Connecticut, bakery is up and running. The new bakery opened on schedule, just 12 months after groundbreaking, and is poised to deliver the anticipated productivity gains. In this fiscal year, Bloomfield will make a very important contribution to Pepperidge Farm operations.
(PF Bloomfield  Photo and Words)
Internationally, Arnott's Baking and Snacking business in Australia is now much stronger. We have completed the reconfiguration of our Australian manufacturing assets, started some two years ago, and this is expected to deliver meaningful productivity savings.
(Arnott's strengthened  Products/Logo and Words List B3)
We acquired Snack Foods Ltd., the number two competitor in salty snacks.
(Arnott's strengthened  Products/Logo and Words List B1)
 
We've also taken steps already to leverage the power of our trademark, the leading biscuit brand in Australia by a factor of five, into the salty snacks category.
(Arnott's strengthened  Products/Logo and Words List B2)
Arnott's
We've just finalized re-branding , our recently acquired largest salty snack brand, to , with the new packages hitting the shelves just last month. Over time, we'll be branding more of our Snack Foods products .
(Thins Old and new Packages  Words and Photo)
Thins
Arnott's Thins
Arnott's
Finally, as we announced in Australia last week, we're in the process of further strengthening Arnott's biscuit portfolio with the acquisition of the Wagon Wheel, Quatro, and Chocolate Wheaten brands from George Weston Foods.
(Australia three brands  photo)
And that concludes my presentation this morning. These are the key points I'd like you to takeaway.
First, we've evolved our strategies to get greater focus on our core thermal businesses in North America where we enjoy the strongest competitive advantage.
(Summary  Words/List B1)
Second, we've continued to strengthen and streamline our strategies to revitalize U.S. Soup to drive faster growth from Ready To Serve, while refocusing on those segments of condensed  kids, icons, and cooking  where we're very strong and where category trends are more favorable.
(Summary  Words/List B2)
Third, we're actively advancing these strategies with strong programs that are going into the marketplace in soup season. Our launch of 17 new convenient products is a visible example of what we're doing!
(Summary  Words/List B3)
this
M'm! M'm! Good! To Go
Fourth, we're driving renewed momentum in our Food and Beverage business with multiple new product launches and increased marketing support.
(Summary  Words/List B4)
Fifth, we're making solid progress in Baking and Snacking with innovative new products being an important driver of growth.
(Summary  Words/List B5)
And finally, we're optimistic that all the initiatives we've been developing these past two years will come together and put Campbell Soup fully back on track to make the company a consistent top performer in the food industry once again.
(Summary  Words B1)
And so, to end, please make sure when you're next shopping for a simple meal  or a food stock for that matter  to "Make it Campbell's Instead"! Thank you very much! And now Bob Schiffner and I'll be happy to take any questions.
(Summary  Words and Logo B2)
(Logo)


