FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20040913084835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On September 13, 2004, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter and year ended August 1, 2004, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     today reported diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter ended August 1, 2004 of $.14, compared to $.18 recorded in the year-ago quarter. Comparability of earnings per share in the quarter was impacted by a gain of $.02 related to the sale of an idle manufacturing plant in California and a charge of $.05 related to the restructuring announced in June. Excluding these two items, earnings were $.17 per share.
CAMDEN, NJ, September 13, 2004Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
     For the quarter, net sales decreased 2 percent to $1,433 million, reflecting the following factors:
Excluding the impact of one less week in the quarter compared to fiscal 2003, net sales were up 5 percent.
 
     Net earnings for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 were $59 million versus $74 million a year earlier. This year's fourth quarter includes a $6 million after-tax gain from the sale of the idle manufacturing site and a $22 million after-tax charge related to the restructuring announced by the company in June.
     For the fiscal 2004 year, the company reported diluted earnings per share of $1.57 compared to $1.52 for the prior year, before the cumulative effect of accounting change. In fiscal 2004, comparability of net earnings was impacted by a $.02 per share gain from the settlement of a class action suit, a $.02 per share gain from the sale of property, and a $.05 per share charge for restructuring. Excluding these items, earnings were $1.58 per share.
     For the year, net sales increased 6 percent to $7,109 million, reflecting the following factors:
Excluding the impact of one less week in the year compared to fiscal 2003, net sales were up 8 percent.
     Net earnings for fiscal 2004 were $647 million versus $626 million for the prior year, before the cumulative effect of accounting change. In fiscal 2004, net earnings included a $10 million after-tax gain associated with the class action suit, a $6 million after-tax gain from the sale of property, and a $22 million after-tax charge for the restructuring.
 
     In addition, the company reported cash flow from operations of $744 million compared with $873 million last year. This decline was primarily due to higher working capital requirements of approximately $150 million and a $50 million contribution to a U.S. pension fund, partially offset by an increase in earnings. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2004 were $288 million, slightly higher than the $283 million of a year ago.
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Our sales on a comparable basis in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 were strong and we have good momentum as we begin the new fiscal year. We have demonstrated that we can grow the top line across our key segments, including soup, beverages, biscuits and confectionery. As anticipated, in the U.S. our investment this year in quality, convenience packaging, and more focused marketing helped us to maintain substantial growth in our ready-to-serve soup business and to moderate the decline in condensed soup sales."
     Conant continued, "The restructuring we announced in June will enable us to achieve tighter control of costs and will help to improve margins. While we still have challenges to address, our plans to deliver quality growth will enable us to win with our customers and consumers in 2005 and beyond."
     For fiscal year 2005, the company expects earnings per share to increase between 5 and 7 percent, excluding restructuring charges, from the adjusted fiscal year 2004 base of $1.58.
Summary of Fiscal 2004 Results by Segment
North America Soup and Away From Home
     Sales for North America Soup and Away From Home were $2,699 million, a 4 percent increase compared with a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
 
Excluding the impact of one less week in the year, net sales rose 5 percent compared to fiscal 2003.
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
     For fiscal 2004, operating earnings of $602 million were down 5 percent compared to the previous year. This decline included a $7 million restructuring charge, which negatively impacted earnings by 1 percent. Earnings were also negatively impacted by costs associated with quality improvements, higher inflation, trade promotion, and product mix. These were partially offset by higher selling prices and productivity improvements.
North America Sauces and Beverages
     North America Sauces and Beverages sales were even with last year at $1,246 million. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
Excluding the impact of one less week in the year, net sales rose 2 percent compared to fiscal 2003.
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
     For fiscal 2004, operating earnings of $268 million were down 7 percent compared to the previous year. The decline in operating earnings included a restructuring charge of $3 million, which accounts for 1 percent of the decrease. Other factors in the decline included higher costs associated with new product introductions and inflation, partially offset by productivity improvements.
Biscuits and Confectionery
     Sales for Biscuits and Confectionery were $1,982 million, a 12 percent increase compared with a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
Excluding the impact of one less week in the year, net sales rose 14 percent compared to fiscal 2003.
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
     For fiscal 2004, operating earnings increased 2 percent to $216 million, with currency translation accounting for 8 percentage points of the growth. Operating earnings included a $12 million restructuring charge, which negatively impacted earnings growth by 6 percentage points. Earnings growth at Pepperidge Farm, Arnott's, and Godiva was offset by a decline in earnings in the Australian Snackfoods business.
International Soup and Sauces
     International Soup and Sauces sales were $1,182 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
 
Excluding the impact of one less week in the year, net sales rose 14 percent compared to fiscal 2003.
     Further details of sales results include the following:
     For fiscal 2004, operating earnings increased 5 percent to $135 million. Operating earnings included restructuring charges of $9 million, which negatively impacted earnings growth by 7 percentage points. The remaining change in earnings is primarily due to favorable currency translation.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
     This release presents Campbell's reported financial results. In discussing these results, this release also refers to certain non-GAAP financial measures. As required by the SEC, the company has provided a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures with this release and on the company's website at www.campbellsoupcompany.com in the "Investor Center" section.
 
Conference Call
     The company will host a conference call to discuss these results on September 13, 2004 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-888-791-6044 and non-U.S. participants at 1-517-308-9004. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is Campbell Soup. The conference leader is Len Griehs. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at www.campbellsoupcompany.com and can be accessed by clicking on the Webcast banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight September 17, 2004 at 1-800-964-3292 or 1-402-998-1011.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains "forward-looking statements" which reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, new product introductions, cost-saving initiatives and quality improvement on sales, earnings and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
 
About Campbell Soup Company
     Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high quality soup, sauce, beverage, biscuit, confectionery and prepared food products. The Company is 135 years old, with over $7 billion in annual sales and a portfolio of more than 20 market-leading brands. In North America, leading brands include "Campbell's" soups, "Swanson" broths, "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, "Pace" Mexican sauces, and "Prego" pasta sauces. In Europe, leading brands include "Erasco" soups in Germany and "Liebig" soups in France, and several dry soup and sauce brands: "Batchelors," "Oxo," "Lesieur," "Royco," "Liebig," "Heisse Tasse," "Bl Band," "Erin," and "McDonnells." Additional European brands include "Homepride" sauces and "Fray Bentos" canned meats in the United Kingdom, and "Devos Lemmens" mayonnaise and cold sauces in Belgium and France. In the Asia Pacific region, the company markets "Arnott's" biscuits, "Campbell's" soups, and "Swanson" broths. "Godiva" chocolates are sold around the world. Approximately 25,000 employees ably support the company around the world. For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website on the Internet at www.campbellsoupcompany.com.
 
The period ended August 1, 2004 had 13 weeks. The period ended August 3, 2003 had 14 weeks.
 
In connection with the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," the company recognized a non-cash charge of $31 (net of a $17 tax benefit) as a cumulative effect of accounting change for the write-down of goodwill of one business unit in the first quarter of fiscal 2003.
Fiscal 2004 had 52 weeks. Fiscal 2003 had 53 weeks.
 
Earnings contributions by segment include the effect of a fourth quarter 2004 restructuring charge of $32 pre-tax ($22 after tax or $.05 per share) as follows: North America Soup and Away From Home $7, North America Sauces and Beverages $3, Biscuits and Confectionery $12, International Soup and Sauces $9 and Corporate Unallocated $1.
The period ended August 1, 2004 had 13 weeks. The period ended August 3, 2003 had 14 weeks.
 
In connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the company recognized a non-cash charge of $31 (net of a $17 tax benefit), or $.08 per share, as a cumulative effect of accounting change for the write-down of goodwill of one business unit in the first quarter of fiscal 2003.
Earnings contributions by segment include the effect of a fourth quarter 2004 restructuring charge of $32 pre-tax ($22 after tax or $.05 per share) as follows: North America Soup and Away From Home $7, North America Sauces and Beverages $3, Biscuits and Confectionery $12, International Soup and Sauces $9 and Corporate Unallocated $1.
Fiscal 2004 had 52 weeks. Fiscal 2003 had 53 weeks.
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP and Non-GAAP Financial Measures, as reported in the Campbell Soup Company earnings release of September 13, 2004
The company uses certain "non-GAAP" financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. The "non-GAAP" financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures. The items include the following:
The table below reconciles earnings per share before the cumulative effect of accounting change, presented in accordance with GAAP, to earnings per share excluding restructuring related costs and other one-time items.
 
The company believes that earnings per share excluding certain restructuring related costs and certain other transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business are a better indicator of the true performance of the business. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand earnings if these transactions are excluded from the results.
The company refers to sales growth rates adjusting for currency, acquisitions and divestitures and the extra week in a 53 week fiscal year to present the results without the impact of these items, all of which can make it more difficult for investors to understand our underlying business trend. The company refers to sales growth excluding currency, acquisitions and divestitures, and the 53 week as organic growth. Management believes that this measure provides useful comparisons of period-to-period results.
rd
Components of the change in sales are as follows:


