FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20040223084310.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
Item 12 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 23, 2004, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended February 1, 2004, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     today reported diluted earnings per share for the second quarter ended February 1, 2004 of $.57 compared to $.56 recorded in the year-ago quarter.
CAMDEN, NJ, February 23, 2004Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
     For the second quarter, net sales rose 9 percent to $2.1 billion, driven by the following:
     Net earnings for the second quarter of fiscal 2004 were $235 million versus $231 million a year earlier.
     Diluted earnings per share for the first six months were $1.08, up 5 percent versus $1.03 a year ago, before the cumulative effect of accounting change. In fiscal 2003, the company recognized a one-time non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $31 million after taxes, or 8 cents per share, related to the adoption of SFAS No. 142.
 
     Net sales were $4.0 billion for the first six months, an increase of 11 percent compared with the year-ago period, reflecting the following factors:
     For the first half of fiscal 2004, the company reported net earnings of $446 million versus $423 million a year earlier before the cumulative effect of accounting change.
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We again delivered solid financial performance in the quarter. We are successfully executing our highest strategic priority of revitalizing our U.S. soup business. We continue to generate excellent growth in our ready-to-serve soups and we are encouraged by the improved performance of our condensed soups. Across the broader portfolio, we see many examples of strong marketplace performance, including V8' beverages and Pepperidge Farm' in the U.S. and Arnott's' in Australia."
     Conant added, "Our strategy to drive improved top-line growth through investments in higher quality products and packaging, convenience, and integrated marketing is clearly paying off. Looking ahead, we will focus on continuing this top-line momentum, while improving our margin structure."
     Consistent with earlier guidance, the company expects earnings per share of approximately $1.58 for fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2003, the company reported earnings per share of $1.52 before the cumulative effect of accounting change. For the third quarter of 2004, the company expects earnings per share to be approximately $.31.
     A summary of second quarter and first half segment results follows.
 
North America Soup and Away From Home
     North America Soup and Away From Home sales increased 8 percent to $894 million in the quarter compared to the year-ago period, driven by strong volume and mix increases, offset by increased promotional spending. Operating earnings of $220 million were up 5 percent. Sales for the quarter break down as follows:
     Further details include the following:
     For the first half of fiscal 2004, sales increased 8 percent to $1.7 billion with currency contributing 2 percentage points of the growth. Operating earnings increased 7 percent to $441 million, compared to the year-ago period.
 
North America Sauces and Beverages
     North America Sauces and Beverages sales rose 2 percent to $324 million in the quarter and operating earnings decreased 14 percent to $72 million, due to higher costs of packaging and ingredients, quality improvements and unfavorable product mix. Sales for the quarter break down as follows:
     Further details include the following:
     For the first half of fiscal 2004, sales rose 4 percent to $651 million compared to the year-ago period. Operating earnings declined 7 percent to $150 million, due to higher costs of packaging and ingredients, quality improvements and unfavorable product mix.
Biscuits and Confectionery
     Biscuits and Confectionery sales increased 13 percent to $550 million in the quarter and operating earnings rose 3 percent to $90 million. Sales for the quarter break down as follows:
 
     Currency contributed 6 percentage points of the growth in operating earnings during the quarter. In the year-ago period, operating earnings were favorably impacted by an $8 million gain on the sale of a biscuit plant in Australia.
     For the first half of fiscal 2004, sales rose 16 percent to $1.0 billion compared to the year-ago period, with currency contributing 8 percentage points of the growth. Operating earnings increased 5 percent, with currency contributing 8 percentage points of the growth.
International Soup and Sauces
     International Soup and Sauces sales rose 14 percent to $332 million and operating earnings increased 15 percent to $39 million in the quarter. Sales for the quarter break down as follows:
     Operating earnings growth was driven by favorable currency.
 
     Further details include the following:
     For the first half of fiscal 2004, sales increased 16 percent to $618 million, compared to the year-ago period. Currency contributed 14 percentage points of the sales growth. Operating earnings increased 23 percent to $74 million compared to the year-ago period with currency contributing 15 percentage points of the growth.
Conference Call
     The company will host a conference call to discuss these results on February 23, 2004 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-800-857-5156 and non-U.S. participants at 1-630-395-0021. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is Campbell Soup and the conference leader is Len Griehs. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at http://www.campbellsoupcompany.com and can be accessed by clicking on the Webcast banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight February 27, 2004 at 1-888-562-6139 or 1-402-280-9979.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains "forward-looking statements" which reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, new product introductions, and quality improvements on sales and earnings. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or
 
intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
About Campbell Soup Company
     Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high quality soup, sauce, beverage, biscuit, confectionery and prepared food products. The Company is 135 years old, with nearly $7 billion in annual sales and a portfolio of more than 20 market-leading brands. In North America, leading brands include "Campbell's" soups, "Swanson" broths, "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, "Pace" Mexican sauces, "Prego" pasta sauces, and "Franco-American" canned pastas and gravies. In Europe, leading brands include "Erasco" soups in Germany and "Liebig" soups in France, and several dry soup and sauce brands: "Batchelors," "Oxo," "Lesieur," "Royco," "Liebig," "Heisse Tasse," "Bl Band," "Erin," and "McDonnells." Additional European brands include "Homepride" sauces and "Fray Bentos" canned meats in the United Kingdom, and "Devos Lemmens" mayonnaise and cold sauces in Belgium and France. In the Asia Pacific region, the company markets "Arnott's" biscuits, "Campbell's" soups, and "Swanson" broths. "Godiva" chocolates are sold around the world. The company is ably supported by 25,000 full-time employees worldwide. For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website on the Internet at www.campbellsoupcompany.com.
 
Certain reclassifications were made to prior year financial statements.
 
In connection with the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," the company recognized a non-cash charge of $31 (net of a $17 tax benefit) as a cumulative effect of accounting change for the write-down of goodwill of one business unit in the first quarter of fiscal 2003.
Certain reclassifications were made to prior year financial statements.
 
 
In connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the company recognized a non-cash charge of $31 (net of a $17 tax benefit), or $.08 per share, as a cumulative effect of accounting change for the write-down of goodwill of one business unit in the first quarter of fiscal 2003.
 


