FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20040928170409.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
     
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
     
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-
2(b)
under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-
2(b)
)
     
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-
4(c)
under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-(c))
Table of Contents
Item 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On September 23, 2004, Campbell Soup Company (the "Company") made a number of stock option and restricted stock awards to certain of its executives and key managers, including the following:
The stock option and restricted stock awards were made pursuant to the Company's 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with the Company's 2003 Proxy Statement (the "Plan"). A form of stock option award statement and restricted stock award statement are filed with this Current Report as Exhibit 10.1 and 10.2, respectively.
The stock options are exercisable at a price of $26.36 per share and vest in accordance with the schedule set forth in the stock option award statement. Subject to earlier termination as described in the Plan, the stock options expire as set forth in the stock option award statement. The restricted shares (or, in the case of Mr. Doumani, restricted share units) vest in accordance with the schedule set forth in the restricted stock award statement. If the recipient voluntarily resigns or is terminated for cause as defined in the Plan, any restricted shares (or units) will be forfeited and returned to the Company. If the recipient's employment is ended because of retirement, a Company initiated termination, or death, each segment of the award will be prorated based upon the length of time the recipient was employed during the restriction period, and the prorated award will vest in accordance with the schedule in the restricted stock award statement. The restricted shares (or units) may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise disposed of by the recipient until they vest. Each recipient is entitled to receive any dividends or
Table of Contents
other distributions made with respect to the restricted shares (or units).
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 28, 2004
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
Congratulations!
You have been awarded Stock Options at a price of
<grant amount>
$<price>
Each option represents your right to purchase a share of Campbell Soup Company stock at the price stated above.
Providing you continue to be employed by the Company, your right to exercise these options extends 10 years from the date of the grant. If you retire from the Company, you will have the entire 10 year period in which to exercise these options. If your employment terminates for any other reason, refer to Section 5.6 of the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan for an explanation of your rights.
These options vest in three installments as follows:
This statement is not intended to fully explain stock option awards. Please consult the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Stock Option brochure for a complete understanding of the Company's stock option program.
President & Chief Executive Officer

 
Exhibit 10.2
Congratulations!
You have been awarded a grant of
<amount>
restricted shares under the Fiscal 2005 Restricted Stock Program.
Providing you continue to be actively employed by the Company, these shares will vest in three installments as follows:
The statement is not intended to fully explain restricted stock awards. Please consult the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Restricted Stock brochure for a complete understanding of the Company's restricted stock program.
President & Chief Executive Officer


