FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20040624164201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7  Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
Item 9  Regulation FD Disclosure
On June 24, 2004, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing, among other things, (i) a new "Driving Quality Growth" plan, (ii) annual growth targets of 3-4 percent for net sales and 5-7 percent for earnings per share, and (iii) cost saving initiatives expected to result in a pre-tax restructuring charge of up to $35 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CAMPBELL ANNOUNCES PLAN FOR "DRIVING QUALITY GROWTH," BUILDING ON PROGRESS OF TRANSFORMATION PLAN BEGUN IN JULY 2001
COMPANY TARGETS 3-4 PERCENT NET SALES GROWTH AND 5-7 PERCENT EARNINGS PER SHARE GROWTH
COST SAVINGS INITIATIVES EXPECTED TO RESULT IN A PRE-TAX RESTRUCTURING CHARGE OF UP TO $35 MILLION IN FOURTH QUARTER OF FISCAL 2004
COMPANY WILL INVEST $125 MILLION TO IMPLEMENT SAP IN NORTH AMERICA TO IMPROVE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND PRODUCTIVITY
CONSUMER FOCUS IS ON EXPANDING CONVENIENCE AND AVAILABILITY OF LEADING BRANDS, INCLUDING "CAMPBELL'S," "V8," "PEPPERIDGE FARM," AND "ARNOTT'S"
today announced a plan for "Driving Quality Growth" to improve its sales growth and the quality and growth of its earnings. The new plan builds on the progress Campbell has made since launching its Transformation Plan in July 2001.
CAMDEN, N.J. June 24, 2004Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
The plan includes the following key elements:
Over the past three years of the Transformation Plan, Campbell will have invested nearly $600 million in both capital and expense in new product and packaging development,
 
quality improvements, and increased marketing support. As a result, Campbell has strengthened its worldwide product portfolio. Specifically, it has improved its market-leading U.S. soup business, continuing the strong growth of ready-to-serve soups, while moderating the decline of condensed soups. The growth of ready-to-serve soups has been driven, in particular, by sales of microwaveable soups, including Campbell's "Chunky," "Select," and "Soup at Hand," which are expected to reach more than $250 million in annual retail sales by the end of the fiscal year. In addition, the company has had strong sales growth in its U.S. Beverage business and in its snacking and baking businesses, including Pepperidge Farm in the U.S. and Arnott's in Australia.
"We have rebuilt the company and have put it back on a growth track," said Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer. "We've delivered growth in our U.S. Soup business and have strengthened key businesses in our broader portfolio. We've significantly improved the quality of our products and packaging, restored marketing spending to very competitive levels, and rebuilt our innovation pipelines. Our consumer insights are much better and our customer relationships are stronger. In short, we are significantly better off than we were when we began our transformation three years ago."
Conant continued, "However, despite these accomplishments, we're not yet where we want to be in some areas. It has taken us longer than expected to moderate the decline in condensed soup and this will continue to be a priority for us. We need to continue to improve our net sales growth, lower our administrative expenses, and continue to upgrade our information technology capabilities. And, importantly, we must improve the quality of our earnings. The reduction in our workforce involved difficult decisions, but they are consistent with our strategic direction and our new organization structure.
"Our plan for Driving Quality Growth' is designed to improve the quality of top-line growth by increasing volume; to enhance the quality of operating earnings by growing the top line and improving margins; and to drive continuous improvement in the quality of our products, the quality of our marketing, and the quality of our management."
Key Cost Savings Initiatives to Help Company Improve Operating Margins and Asset Utilization
As part of its plan, Campbell also announced several key cost savings initiatives designed to improve the company's operating margins and asset utilization. They include:
 
"On Desire" Strategy Focuses on Making Campbell Products More Convenient and Available to Consumers ... Anytime, Anywhere
Under the plan, Campbell will continue to invest in its market leading U.S. brands, including "Campbell's," "V8," "Pepperidge Farm," and "Arnott's," the leading biscuit brand in Australia. These brands currently account for two-thirds of Campbell's global net sales.
The plan will also focus on expanding the convenience and availability of these and other leading brands through new products and packaging and broader distribution in growing channels both in and beyond grocery.
Further details of the plan include:
 
Commenting on today's announcement, Conant said, "By implementing our plan for Driving Quality Growth,' we will make Campbell a stronger, more competitive company. I am pleased with our accomplishments from the Transformation Plan and I believe we are well positioned to tackle the challenges that lie ahead."
Investor Meeting
The company will host an investor meeting on June 25, 2004, at 10:00 a.m. Interested parties may listen to the presentation live by logging on to Campbell's website at www.campbellsoupcompany.com and clicking on the Webcast banner. An archive of the broadcast will also be available approximately two hours after it is completed at www.campbellsoupcompany.com. At this meeting, the company may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. As required by the SEC, Campbell has provided a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures, which is available on its investor website at www.campbellsoupcompany.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" which reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, new product introductions, cost-saving initiatives and quality improvement on sales, earnings and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary
 
materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
About Campbell Soup Company
Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high quality soup, sauce, beverage, biscuit, confectionery and prepared food products. The company is 135 years old, with nearly $7 billion in annual sales and a portfolio of more than 20 market-leading brands. For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website on the Internet at www.campbellsoupcompany.com.


