FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20040326084818.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 9  Regulation FD Disclosure
On March 26, 2004, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing the appointment of two of its senior financial executives to new positions, effective March 31. Gerald S. Lord was appointed Vice President  Finance and Strategy for Campbell North America. Anthony P. DiSilvestro was appointed Vice President  Controller of Campbell Soup Company. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CAMPBELL NAMES GERALD S. LORD VICE PRESIDENT OF FINANCE AND STRATEGY FOR NEW NORTH AMERICAN DIVISION
ANTHONY P. DISILVESTRO IS APPOINTED VICE PRESIDENTCONTROLLER OF CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY
     today announced the appointment of two of its senior financial executives to new positions, effective March 31.
CAMDEN, N.J., MARCH 26, 2004  (NYSE: CPB) Campbell Soup Company
     Gerald S. Lord, 57, is appointed Vice PresidentFinance and Strategy for Campbell North America, the new division announced by Campbell on February 12, which had sales of approximately $5 billion in the last fiscal year. He will report to Mark Sarvary, Executive Vice President and PresidentCampbell North America.
     Lord has served as Vice PresidentController of Campbell Soup Company since 1996. He joined Campbell in 1990 as Controller of Campbell's international businesses, and later served as Campbell's Treasurer. Prior to Campbell, he held several senior financial positions with General Foods and Kraft. A native of the U.K., Lord holds a degree in business finance from the City of London College.
     Commenting on Lord's appointment, Sarvary said, "Gerry Lord is one of Campbell's most talented executives and he will play a critical role in assisting us to realize the full potential of our North American business units. I am delighted to have the benefit of his strong Campbell experience in both finance and strategic planning."
     Anthony P. DiSilvestro, 45, has been appointed to succeed Lord as Vice PresidentController of Campbell Soup Company. He will report to Robert A. Schiffner, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
     DiSilvestro has been Managing Director of Campbell International since 2002. He joined Campbell in 1996 as Deputy Treasurer and was appointed Vice PresidentTreasurer in 1997. He later held senior finance and corporate strategy positions. Prior to
 
Campbell, DiSilvestro held a variety of finance positions with Scott Paper Company. He earned a B.A. from Dartmouth College and an M.B.A. from The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
     Commenting on DiSilvestro's appointment, Schiffner said, "Anthony DiSilvestro has demonstrated excellent financial leadership in his eight years at Campbell. We are pleased to have an executive of his caliber in this key role for the company."
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains "forward-looking statements" which reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, new product introductions, and quality improvements on sales and earnings. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
About Campbell Soup Company
     Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high quality soup, sauce, beverage, biscuit, confectionery and prepared food products. The Company is 135 years old, with nearly $7 billion in annual sales and a portfolio of more than 20 market-leading brands. In North America, leading brands include "Campbell's" soups, "Swanson" broths, "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, "Pace" Mexican sauces, "Prego" pasta sauces, and "Franco-American" canned pastas and gravies. In Europe, leading brands include "Erasco" soups in Germany and "Liebig" soups in France, and several dry soup and sauce brands: "Batchelors," "Oxo," "Lesieur," "Royco," "Liebig," "Heisse Tasse," "Bl Band," "Erin," and "McDonnells." Additional European brands include "Homepride" sauces and "Fray Bentos" canned meats in the United Kingdom, and "Devos Lemmens" mayonnaise and cold sauces in Belgium and France. In the Asia Pacific region, the company markets "Arnott's" biscuits, "Campbell's" soups, and "Swanson" broths. "Godiva" chocolates are sold around the world. The company is ably supported by 25,000 full-time employees worldwide. For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website on the Internet at www.campbellsoupcompany.com.


