FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20040524084806.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7  Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
Item 12  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 24, 2004, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended May 2, 2004, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     today reported diluted earnings per share for the third quarter ended May 2, 2004 of $.34 compared to $.31 recorded in the year-ago quarter. This result includes a non-recurring $.02 gain from Campbell's share of a settlement from a class action lawsuit involving ingredient suppliers.
CAMDEN, NJ, May 24, 2004Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
     For the third quarter, net sales rose 4 percent to $1.7 billion, reflecting the following factors:
     Net earnings for the third quarter of fiscal 2004 were $142 million versus $129 million a year earlier. This year's third quarter includes a $10 million after-tax gain from the settlement of the class action lawsuit.
     Diluted earnings per share for the first nine months were $1.43, which includes the $.02 non-recurring gain, versus $1.34 a year ago, before the cumulative effect of accounting change. In fiscal 2003, the company recognized a one-time, non-cash
 
goodwill impairment charge of $31 million after taxes, or 8 cents per share, related to the adoption of SFAS No. 142.
     Net sales for the first nine months were $5.7 billion, an increase of 9 percent compared with the year-ago period, reflecting the following factors:
     Net earnings for the first nine months were $588 million compared to $552 million in the year-ago period, before the cumulative effect of the accounting change. Net earnings for the current year include a $10 million after-tax gain from the settlement of the class action lawsuit.
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, commented, "Our earnings in the quarter were in line with our projections, but we must address the decline in our operating margins. We knew this quarter would be a difficult sales comparison for U.S. Soup because we were lapping an extremely strong third quarter last year and we are following a strong second quarter this year. In addition, we continued our heavy investment in promotional activity to be fully competitive in this category."
     Conant added, "Despite lower U.S. Soup sales in the third quarter, the year-to-date performance of U.S. Soup demonstrates continued progress. Our investments in higher quality products, convenient packaging and integrated marketing are driving top-line growth. We have delivered strong growth in ready-to-serve soup and broth while improving the trend in condensed soup. Our convenience platform for soup is gaining wider consumer acceptance. As we look toward the next soup season, we are putting plans in place to continue to drive top-line growth while also improving our bottom-line performance."
     The company expects earnings per share of approximately $1.60 for fiscal 2004, which includes the one-time $.02 gain from the class action settlement. In fiscal 2003,
 
the company reported earnings per share of $1.52 before the cumulative effect of accounting change. For the fourth quarter of 2004, the company expects earnings per share to be approximately $.17, compared to $.18 a year ago.
     A summary of third quarter and nine-month segment results follows.
North America Soup and Away From Home
     North America Soup and Away From Home sales were $578 million in the quarter, down 4 percent compared to the year-ago period, driven by lower volume and increased promotional spending. Sales for the quarter break down as follows:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
     For the first nine months of fiscal 2004, sales increased 5 percent to $2.3 billion with currency contributing 2 percentage points of the growth.
     For the quarter, operating earnings of $113 million were down 23 percent due to lower volume and higher promotional spending. For the first nine months of fiscal 2004, operating earnings of $554 million were down 1 percent, compared to the year-ago period. Product mix and the cost of quality and packaging improvements, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency, contributed to the decline in operating earnings.
North America Sauces and Beverages
     North America Sauces and Beverages sales rose 2 percent to $301 million in the quarter. In the breakdown of sales growth for the quarter, volume and mix was flat and reduced promotional spending added 2 percent.
     Further details of sales results include the following:
     For the first nine months of fiscal 2004, sales rose 3 percent to $952 million, compared to the year-ago period.
     For the quarter, operating earnings increased 12 percent to $66 million, due to improved product mix and lower administrative expenses. For the first nine months of
 
fiscal 2004, operating earnings declined 2 percent to $216 million, due to higher marketing expenses.
Biscuits and Confectionery
     Biscuits and Confectionery sales increased 11 percent to $481 million in the quarter. Sales for the quarter break down as follows:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
     For the first nine months of fiscal 2004, sales were up 14 percent to $1.5 billion, compared to the year-ago period, with currency contributing 8 percentage points of the growth.
     For the quarter, operating earnings were down 3 percent to $37 million. For the first nine months of fiscal 2004, operating earnings increased 4 percent to $173 million.
 
In both periods, results were impacted by weakness in the Australian Snackfoods business, offsetting the favorable impact of currency, which contributed 8 percentage points to operating earnings growth in each period.
International Soup and Sauces
     International Soup and Sauces sales were $307 million, up 13 percent compared to the year-ago quarter. Sales for the quarter break down as follows:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
     For the first nine months of fiscal 2004, sales were $925 million, up 15 percent compared to the year-ago period. Currency contributed 14 percentage points of the sales growth.
     In the quarter, operating earnings rose 3 percent to $38 million. Renewed advertising spending in Europe partially offset the favorable impact of currency, which contributed 14 percentage points to operating earnings growth during the quarter. For the first nine months of fiscal 2004, operating earnings were $112 million, up 15 percent compared to the year-ago period, with currency accounting for the earnings growth.
 
Conference Call
     The company will host a conference call to discuss these results on May 24, 2004 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-800-857-9841 and non-U.S. participants at 1-773-756-4622. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is Campbell Soup and the conference leader is Len Griehs. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at http://www.campbellsoupcompany.com and can be accessed by clicking on the Webcast banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight May 28, 2004 at 1-866-436-9388 or 1-203-369-1037.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains "forward-looking statements" which reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, new product introductions, and quality improvements on sales and earnings. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
About Campbell Soup Company
     Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high quality soup, sauce, beverage, biscuit, confectionery and prepared food products. The Company is 135 years old, with nearly $7 billion in annual sales and a portfolio of more than 20 market-leading brands. The company is ably supported by 25,000 full-time employees worldwide. For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website on the Internet at www.campbellsoupcompany.com.
 
     Certain reclassifications were made to prior year financial statements.
 
In connection with the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," the company recognized a non-cash charge of $31 (net of a $17 tax benefit) as a cumulative effect of accounting change for the write-down of goodwill of one business unit in the first quarter of fiscal 2003.
Certain reclassifications were made to prior year financial statements.
 
 
In connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the company recognized a non-cash charge of $31 (net of a $17 tax benefit), or $.08 per share, as a cumulative effect of accounting change for the write-down of goodwill of one business unit in the first quarter of fiscal 2003.
 


