FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20041122084331.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 22, 2004, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended October 31, 2004, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
     today reported diluted earnings per share for the first quarter ended October 31, 2004 of $.56. This result compares to $.51 recorded in the year-ago quarter.
CAMDEN, NJ, November 22, 2004Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
     For the first quarter, sales rose 10 percent to $2.1 billion. Earnings before interest and taxes were $381 million, up 8 percent versus the year-ago quarter. Sales for the quarter reflect the following:
     Net earnings were $230 million for the quarter, versus $211 million in the year-ago period.
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We are off to a strong start. The significant investments we have made to improve our products, packaging, merchandising, and marketing are beginning to reach critical mass
 
in the marketplace. That is particularly true in our U.S. soup business where our condensed and ready-to-serve soups, as well as broth, grew strongly. Our decision to move more of our consumer marketing and trade promotion programs into the first quarter drove category growth and significant improvement in our competitive profile. Additionally, the introduction of Campbell's Chunky' chili has met with very positive customer and consumer acceptance, demonstrating that the Campbell's' brand can compete more broadly in the simple meals arena. We were also pleased to deliver solid growth in our baking and snacking businesses."
     Conant added, "For the remainder of the year, we must continue to drive innovation and execute our programs with excellence. Over time, this is the best way to deliver quality results and generate returns to shareholders that are among the best in the industry."
     The company confirmed its fiscal year 2005 guidance for earnings per share to increase between 5 and 7 percent, excluding restructuring charges, from the adjusted fiscal year 2004 base of $1.58.
     Beginning this quarter, Campbell is reporting new segments that reflect the company's new organizational structure announced in fiscal 2004. A summary of segment results for the first quarter follows.
Summary of Fiscal 2005 First Quarter Results By Segment
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     This reporting segment includes the following retail businesses: "Campbell's" condensed and ready-to-serve soups, "Swanson" broth and canned poultry, "Prego" pasta
 
sauce, "Pace" Mexican sauce, "Campbell's Chunky" chili, "Campbell's" canned pasta, gravies and beans, "Campbell's Supper Bakes" meal kits, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, and "Campbell's" tomato juice.
     Sales for U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $994 million, a 10 percent increase compared with the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings of $275 million were up 4 percent, as higher sales volumes were partially offset by increased trade promotion and advertising, and higher materials costs.
     A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Ready-to-serve soup sales rose 18 percent, condensed soup sales increased 10 percent and broth sales grew 7 percent.
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
trade promotion, as well as advertising linked to the National Football League. Six new varieties were introduced in the quarter.
     Highlights of this segment's other businesses include:
 
Baking and Snacking
     This segment includes the following businesses: "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products in U.S. retail, "Arnott's" biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific, and "Arnott's" salty snacks in Australia.
     Sales for Baking and Snacking were $449 million, an 8 percent increase compared with the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings increased 10 percent to $46 million. The impact of higher net sales, currency and productivity improvements were partially offset by commodity cost inflation.
     A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
International Soup and Sauces
     This segment includes the soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Canada, Europe, Mexico, Latin America, and the Asia Pacific region.
     Sales for International Soup and Sauces were $416 million, an 8 percent increase compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2004. Operating earnings increased 4 percent to $55 million, due to the positive impact of currency.
     A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
Other
     The balance of the portfolio includes Godiva Chocolatier worldwide and the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
     Sales grew 12 percent to $232 million compared to the same period a year ago. Operating earnings of $22 million were flat versus the prior year, as growth in Away From Home was offset by an earnings decline at Godiva, reflecting increased spending in support of product launches and the new "GoDiva" advertising campaign, ahead of the primary sales seasons.
     A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
Non-GAAP Financial Information
     A reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal year 2004 earnings per share to the reported earnings per share can be found on the company's website at www.campbellsoupcompany.com in the "Investor Center" section.
Conference Call
     The company will host a conference call to discuss these results on November 22 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-877-546-1567 and non-U.S. participants at 1-210-839-8502. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is "Campbell Soup" and the conference leader is Len Griehs. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at http://www.campbellsoupcompany.com and can be accessed by clicking on the Webcast banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight November 26, 2004 at 1-800-873-2059 or 1-402-220-5376.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains "forward-looking statements" which reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, new product introductions, cost-saving initiatives and quality improvement on sales, earnings and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent
 
Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
About Campbell Soup Company
     Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high quality soup, sauce, beverage, biscuit, confectionery and other prepared food products. The company is 135 years old, with over $7 billion in annual sales and a portfolio of more than 20 market-leading brands. For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website on the Internet at www.campbellsoupcompany.com.
 
 
 


