FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20050218083957.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 18, 2005, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended January 30, 2005, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report, including the attached Exhibit, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     today reported diluted earnings per share for the second quarter ended January 30, 2005 of $.57, even with the year-ago quarter.
CAMDEN, NJ, February 18, 2005Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
     For the second quarter, net sales rose 6 percent to $2.2 billion, reflecting the following factors:
     Net earnings for the second quarter of fiscal 2005 were $235 million, even with a year earlier.
     Diluted earnings per share for the first half of fiscal 2005 were $1.13, up 5 percent versus $1.08 a year ago.
 
     Net sales were $4.3 billion for the first half of fiscal 2005, an increase of 8 percent compared with the year-ago period, reflecting the following factors:
     For the first half of fiscal 2005, the company reported net earnings of $465 million versus $446 million a year earlier, an increase of 4 percent.
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "At the halfway mark in the year, we are pleased with our overall company performance. Our U.S. Soup business increased sales 6 percent for the first half of fiscal 2005, with condensed, ready-to-serve, and broth all experiencing growth. We are especially pleased with the strong sales growth in condensed soup, which is up 7 percent for the first half, the best performance in many years. Our continuing investment in product quality, new products and packaging, improved marketing, and retail execution is driving this performance. While the cost of these investments and materials inflation has impacted our U.S. Soup profit margins, our recently announced price increase, effective at the end of February, will help to improve the profitability of U.S. Soup."
     Conant continued, "The balance of our portfolio has delivered excellent performance for the first half. Particularly noteworthy have been the outstanding top and bottom line performances of Pepperidge Farm and Away From Home in the U.S. From an overall financial perspective, we continue to strengthen our balance sheet with the reduction of our debt, leveraging our strong cash flow generation."
 
     The company confirmed its fiscal 2005 guidance for earnings per share to increase between 5 and 7 percent, excluding restructuring charges, from the adjusted fiscal year 2004 base of $1.58.
Summary of Fiscal 2005 Second Quarter Results By Segment
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $956 million, a 1 percent increase compared with a year ago. Operating earnings of $216 million were down 12 percent compared with the year-ago quarter, due to increased trade promotion and advertising and higher materials costs, partially offset by productivity savings and lower administrative expenses. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Soup sales for the quarter declined 1 percent, with condensed soup sales up 4 percent, ready-to-serve soup sales down 9 percent, and broth sales up 15 percent.
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
installation of gravity-feed shelving systems, which are now in more than 11,000 stores.
 
     For the first half of fiscal 2005, sales increased 5 percent to $2.0 billion. Operating earnings decreased 4 percent to $491 million, as the benefit of higher sales and productivity gains were more than offset by increased trade promotion and advertising, and higher materials costs.
Baking and Snacking
     Sales for Baking and Snacking were $433 million, a 9 percent increase compared with a year ago. Operating earnings increased 12 percent to $47 million compared with the year-ago quarter, as the impact of pricing and higher volume was partially offset by increased marketing and commodity cost inflation.
     A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
     For the first half of fiscal 2005, sales increased 8 percent to $882 million. Operating earnings increased 11 percent to $93 million, driven by pricing and higher volume, partially offset by higher materials costs.
International Soup and Sauces
     Sales for International Soup and Sauces were $502 million, a 10 percent increase compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2004. Operating earnings increased 8 percent to $70 million, primarily due to the favorable impact of currency.
     A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
     For the first half of fiscal 2005, sales increased 9 percent to $918 million. Operating earnings increased 6 percent to $125 million, primarily due to the favorable impact of currency.
Other
     The balance of the portfolio includes the Godiva Chocolatier business worldwide and the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
     Sales grew 12 percent to $332 million compared with the same period a year ago. Operating earnings of $72 million were up 14 percent versus the prior year, primarily due to the strong sales growth. Last year's operating earnings included a gain of $4 million from an insurance settlement to cover the loss of two Godiva stores destroyed during the events of September 11, 2001.
     A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Further details include the following:
 
     For the first half of fiscal 2005, sales increased 12 percent to $564 million. Operating earnings increased 11 percent to $94 million, consistent with strong sales growth.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
     A reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal year 2004 earnings per share to the reported earnings per share is attached to this release and can also be found on the company's website at in the "Investor Center" section.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Conference Call
     The company will host a conference call to discuss these results on February 18 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-877-601-3546 and non-U.S. participants at 1-210-234-0002. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is "Campbell Soup" and the conference leader is Len Griehs. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at and can be accessed by clicking on the "Webcast"
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
 
banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight February 25, 2005 at 1-866-393-0852 or 1-203-369-0428.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains "forward-looking statements" which reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, new product introductions, cost-saving initiatives and quality improvement on sales, earnings and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
Reporting Segments
     Beginning in fiscal year 2005, Campbell Soup Company earnings results are reported for the following segments:
     , which includes the following retail businesses: "Campbell's" brand condensed and ready-to-serve soups, "Swanson" broth and canned poultry businesses, "Prego" pasta sauce, "Pace" Mexican sauce, "Campbell's Chunky" chili, "Campbell's" canned pasta, gravies and beans, "Campbell's Supper
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
 
Bakes" meal kits, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, and "Campbell's" tomato juice.
     , which includes the following businesses: "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products in U.S. retail, "Arnott's" biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific, and "Arnott's" salty snacks in Australia.
Baking and Snacking
     , which includes the soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Canada, Europe, Mexico, Latin America, and the Asia Pacific region.
International Soup and Sauces
     , which includes the Godiva Chocolatier business worldwide and the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
Other
About Campbell Soup Company
     Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high quality soup, sauce, beverage, baking, biscuit, confectionery and prepared food products. The Company is 135 years old, with over $7 billion in annual sales and a portfolio of more than 20 market-leading brands. For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website on the Internet at .
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
Campbell Soup Company uses certain "non-GAAP" financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. The "non-GAAP" financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures. The items include the following:
The table below reconciles earnings per share, presented in accordance with GAAP, to earnings per share excluding restructuring related costs and other one-time items.
The company believes that earnings per share excluding certain restructuring related costs and certain other transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business are a better indicator of the true performance of the business. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand earnings if these transactions are excluded from the results.


