FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20051121084736.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-(c))
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 21, 2005, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended October 30, 2005, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02, including the Exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 8.01  Other Events
On November 21, 2005, Campbell Soup Company also announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the purchase of up to $600 million of company stock on the open market or through privately negotiated transactions through the end of fiscal 2008. In addition, Campbell Soup Company will continue to purchase shares, under separate authorization, as part of its practice of buying back shares sufficient to offset shares issued under incentive compensation plans.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today reported net earnings increased to $302 million in the first quarter ended October 30, 2005 versus $230 million in the prior year. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $.73, compared with $.56 in the year-ago period. These results included several items that impact the comparability of results this quarter with a year ago.
CAMDEN, NJ, November 21, 2005Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
The company also announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the purchase of up to $600 million of company stock on the open market or through privately negotiated transactions through the end of fiscal 2008. In addition, the company will continue to purchase shares, under separate authorization, as part of its practice of buying back shares sufficient to offset shares issued under incentive compensation plans.
 
Beginning in fiscal 2006, the company adopted a new accounting standard (SFAS 123R) that requires all stock-based compensation to be expensed. Had all stock-based compensation been expensed in the year-ago quarter, net earnings would have been $224 million and diluted earnings per share would have been $.54. For the full fiscal year 2005, diluted earnings per share would have been $1.64.
Net earnings and earnings per share in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 were impacted by the following items:
 
After adjusting for these items, net earnings would have been $242 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and $224 million in the year-ago period, an increase of 8 percent. Earnings per share would have been $.58 in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and $.54 in the year-ago period, an increase of 7 percent.
For the first quarter, sales rose 1 percent to $2,110 million, following a strong year-ago quarter when sales increased 10 percent. Sales for the quarter reflect the following factors:
Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Our plan to drive quality growth is on track. This quarter, although our ready-to-serve soup sales were significantly weaker due to a change in our pricing and promotional activity from a year ago, we continued to improve our profit margin while laying the foundation for driving top-line growth for the balance of the year, consistent with our goal. I am confident in the plans we have in place to drive growth across our portfolio, including U.S. Soup. The $600 million share repurchase program we announced today leverages
 
our strong cash flow generation and reflects the confidence we have in our long-term growth prospects."
Excluding the gain of $.14 related to the favorable tax settlement, and other items affecting comparability, the company confirmed its fiscal 2006 guidance for earnings per share to increase between 5 and 7 percent from the adjusted fiscal year 2005 base of $1.64.
Summary of Fiscal 2006 First Quarter Results by Segment
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
Sales for U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $970 million, a 2 percent decrease compared with a year ago. The change in sales reflects the following factors:
Operating earnings were $288 million compared with $275 million in the prior-year period. Earnings for the first quarter of this year included an $8 million benefit from the change in the method of accounting for inventory. Prior-year earnings would have been $1 million lower had all stock-based compensation been expensed. Operating earnings were driven by higher selling prices and productivity gains, which more than offset the impact of lower sales and cost inflation.
Soup sales for the quarter declined 6 percent, driven by the following:
 
Highlights of this segment's other businesses include:
 
Baking and Snacking
Sales for Baking and Snacking were $458 million, a 2 percent increase compared with a year ago.
A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
Operating earnings were $50 million compared with $46 million in the prior-year period. Earnings for the first quarter of this year included a $5 million benefit from the change in the method of accounting for inventory. Prior-year earnings would have been $2 million lower had all stock-based compensation been expensed. Operating earnings
 
for the quarter were also driven by higher earnings at Arnott's and favorable currency, which were partially offset by declines at Pepperidge Farm due to a higher level of marketing expenses in support of the launch of the new "Pepperidge Farm Whims" poppable snacks.
Further details of sales results include the following:
International Soup and Sauces
Sales for International Soup and Sauces were $420 million, a 1 percent increase compared with the year-ago period, due to currency.
Operating earnings were flat at $55 million. Prior year earnings would have been $1 million lower had all stock-based compensation been expensed. Operating earnings
 
growth in Canada and currency gains were offset by declines in Europe and Latin America.
Further details of sales results include the following:
Other
The balance of the portfolio includes the Godiva Chocolatier business worldwide and the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
Sales grew 13 percent to $262 million compared with the same period a year ago.
A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
Operating earnings were $26 million compared with $22 million in the prior-year period. Prior year earnings would have been $1 million lower had all stock-based
 
compensation been expensed. Operating earnings growth was also driven by strong sales growth and margin improvements in the Away From Home business.
Further details include the following:
Non-GAAP Financial Information
A reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2006 and 2005 financial information to the reported financial information is attached to this release and can also be found on the company's website at in the "Investor Center" section.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Conference Call
The company will host a conference call to discuss these results on November 21 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-888-791-1856 and non-U.S. participants at 1-773-756-4600. Participants should call at least five
 
minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is "Campbell Soup" and the conference leader is Len Griehs. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at and can be accessed by clicking on the "Webcast" banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight November 25, 2005 at 1-866-428-3803 or 1-203-369-0904.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" which reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, pricing, new product introductions and innovation, cost-saving initiatives and quality improvement on sales, earnings and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
Reporting Segments
Beginning in fiscal year 2005, Campbell Soup Company earnings results are reported for the following segments:
 
includes the following retail businesses: "Campbell's" brand condensed and ready-to-serve soups, "Swanson" broth and canned poultry businesses, "Prego" pasta sauce, "Pace" Mexican sauce, "Campbell's Chunky" chili, "Campbell's" canned pasta, gravies and beans, "Campbell's Supper Bakes" meal kits, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, and "Campbell's" tomato juice.
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
includes the following businesses: "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products in U.S. retail, "Arnott's" biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific, and "Arnott's" salty snacks in Australia.
Baking and Snacking
includes the soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Canada, Europe, Mexico, Latin America, and the Asia Pacific region.
International Soup and Sauces
includes the Godiva Chocolatier business worldwide and the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
Other
About Campbell Soup Company
Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high quality simple meals, including soup, baked snacks, vegetable-based beverages, and premium chocolate products.
Founded in 1869, the company has a portfolio of more than 20 market-leading brands, including "Campbell's," "Pepperidge Farm," "Arnott's," "V8," and "Godiva." For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website at .
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
 
The company adopted SFAS 123R in fiscal 2006 which requires that all stock-based awards be expensed. Had compensation expense been recognized in fiscal 2005 for all stock-based awards, an additional pre-tax expense of $10 would have been recognized. Net earnings would have been $224 and diluted earnings per share would have been $.54. The 2005 pre-tax incremental compensation expense would have been recognized as follows on the Consolidated Statements of Earnings: Cost of products sold  $1; Marketing and selling  $3; Administrative  $5; and Research and development  $1.
In fiscal 2006, the company changed the method of accounting for certain U.S. inventories from the LIFO method to the average cost method. The impact of the change was reflected as a one-time non-cash pre-tax benefit of $13 ($8 after tax or $.02 per share).
In fiscal 2006, the company recorded a non-cash tax benefit of $47 resulting from the favorable resolution of a U.S. tax contingency related to a prior period. In addition, the company reduced interest expense and accrued interest payable by $21 and adjusted deferred tax expense by $8 ($13 after tax). The aggregate non-cash impact of the settlement on net earnings was $60, or $.14 per share.
During the quarter, an incremental tax expense of $8 (or $.02 per share) was recorded related to repatriated earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries under the provision of the American Jobs Creation Act.
 
The company adopted SFAS 123R in fiscal 2006 which requires that all stock-based awards be expensed. Had compensation expense been recognized in fiscal 2005 for all stock-based awards, an additional pre-tax expense of $10 would have been recognized. Net earnings would have been $224 and diluted earnings per share would have been $.54. The 2005 pre-tax incremental compensation expense would have been recognized as follows: U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages  $1; Baking and Snacking  $2; International Soup and Sauces  $1; Other  $1; and Unallocated Corporate  $5.
In fiscal 2006, the company changed the method of accounting for certain U.S. inventories from the LIFO method to the average cost method. The impact of the change was reflected as a one-time non-cash pre-tax benefit of $13 ($8 after tax or $.02 per share). The pre-tax benefit is reflected as follows: U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages  $8 and Baking and Snacking  $5.
In fiscal 2006, the company recorded a non-cash tax benefit of $47 resulting from the favorable resolution of a U.S. tax contingency related to a prior period. In addition, the company reduced interest expense and accrued interest payable by $21 and adjusted deferred tax expense by $8 ($13 after tax). The aggregate non-cash impact of the settlement on net earnings was $60, or $.14 per share.
During the quarter, an incremental tax expense of $8 (or $.02 per share) was recorded related to repatriated earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries under the provision of the American Jobs Creation Act.
 
 
Campbell Soup Company uses certain "non-GAAP" financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. These "non-GAAP" financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures.
The impact of changes in accounting methods and certain tax matters on financial information are as follows:
The table below reconciles financial information, presented in accordance with GAAP, to financial information excluding the impact of changes in accounting methods and certain tax matters:
 
The company believes that financial information excluding certain changes in accounting methods and certain other transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business improves the comparability of year-to-year results. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand its earnings results if these transactions are excluded from the results.


