FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20061120084847.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 20, 2006, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended October 29, 2006, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     today reported an 8 percent sales increase to $2,153 million in the quarter ended October 29, 2006, and earnings from continuing operations of $269 million, compared to $286 million in the prior year. Earnings per share from continuing operations for the current quarter were $.66, compared to $.69 as reported in the year-ago period. Both earnings and earnings per share in the year-ago period included several items that impact the comparability of results from continuing operations.
CAMDEN, NJ, November 20, 2006Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
     After factoring in the items that impact comparability into the fiscal 2006 reported results, earnings from continuing operations would have been $226 million in the prior-year period compared to $269 million in the current quarter. Adjusted pro forma earnings per share would have been $.57 in the prior-year period compared to $.66 in the current quarter, an increase of 16 percent.
 
     The items recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 that impact the comparability of earnings from continuing operations are:
     One additional adjustment to earnings per share from continuing operations is required for comparability.
     In August 2006, upon completing the sale of its U.K. and Ireland businesses for approximately $870 million, Campbell announced a special share repurchase program for $620 million of the proceeds. To provide comparability of results, the company's adjusted 2006 results reflect the pro forma impact of utilizing $620 million of the
 
proceeds from the sale to repurchase 17 million shares, an incremental impact of $.02 per share.
     This results in a 2006 adjusted pro forma base of $.57 compared to $.66 for the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
     A detailed reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2007 and 2006 financial information to the reported financial information is attached to this release.
     Earnings from discontinued operations in the quarter were $22 million compared to $16 million in the prior year. Earnings for the current year's first quarter reflected a $36 million gain, $22 million after tax, or $.05 per share, from the sale of the U.K. and Ireland businesses, while the prior year's earnings of $.04 per share represented operating performance.
     For the first quarter, sales were $2,153 million, an increase of 8 percent. Sales for the quarter reflect the following factors:
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We achieved strong first quarter results across our key strategic growth platforms of simple meals and baked snacks.
     "Within simple meals, our U.S. soup business delivered strong growth across all formatscondensed, ready-to-serve, and broth. Given our strategic emphasis on wellness, we are encouraged by the introduction of our new lower sodium soups,
 
featuring natural sea salt. Although this initiative is in its early stages, consumer trial has been solid and initial shipments have exceeded our expectations. We will have a better sense of the incremental impact of this effort as the year progresses.
     "Within baked snacks, we achieved strong growth in our Pepperidge Farm bakery and cookies and crackers businesses, as well as solid gains in Arnott's biscuit business in Australia. Additionally, our beverage business continued its strong growth trend, driven by the innovative V8 V-Fusion' juice beverages and V8' vegetable juices.
     "Overall, we are pleased with this very good start to the year."
     The company confirmed its fiscal 2007 guidance for earnings per share from continuing operations to increase between 5 and 7 percent from the adjusted pro forma fiscal year 2006 base of $1.73.
     At the end of the quarter, total debt was $2,863 million compared to $2,976 million a year ago. Net debt, or total debt minus cash and cash equivalents, was $2,633 million compared to $2,931 million a year ago, a reduction of $298 million.
     During the first quarter, Campbell completed its previously announced program to utilize $620 million of the proceeds from the sale of its U.K. and Ireland businesses to repurchase shares. This was accomplished through two accelerated share repurchase transactions for $600 million and $20 million of open market transactions. This is in addition to the three-year $600 million share repurchase plan announced in November 2005 and Campbell's ongoing practice of buying back shares sufficient to offset shares issued under incentive compensation plans. In total, the company purchased 19.9 million shares for $751 million during the first quarter.
 
Summary of Fiscal 2007 First Quarter Results by Segment
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $1,052 million, up 8 percent from $970 million a year ago. The change in sales reflects the following factors:
     Operating earnings were $322 million compared with $288 million in the prior-year period. Earnings in the prior-year period included an $8 million gain from a change in the method of accounting for inventory. Operating earnings were driven by higher selling prices, increased volume, and productivity gains, partially offset by cost inflation.
     Total soup sales for the quarter increased 10 percent, driven by the following:
 
 
     Highlights of this segment's other businesses include:
Baking and Snacking
     Sales for Baking and Snacking were $484 million, up 6 percent from $458 million a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings were $68 million compared with $50 million in the prior-year period. Earnings in the prior-year period included a $5 million gain from a change in the method of accounting for inventory. Operating earnings were driven by significant gains at Pepperidge Farm, primarily due to higher volumes and lower marketing costs compared to the prior year's quarter which included marketing expenses related to the launch of "Whims" poppable cookie snacks. "Whims" was subsequently discontinued.
 
Arnott's also delivered significant earnings growth from favorable product mix, higher selling prices, and productivity improvements.
     Further details of sales results include the following:
International Soup and Sauces
     Sales for International Soup and Sauces were $346 million, up 11 percent from $312 million a year ago. The change in sales reflects the following factors:
 
     Operating earnings were $48 million compared to $35 million in the year-ago period. Operating earnings were driven by double-digit increases in the Canadian and European businesses and by the favorable impact of currency.
     Further details of sales results include the following:
Other
     The balance of the portfolio includes the Godiva Chocolatier business worldwide and the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
     Segment sales were $271 million, up 3 percent from $262 million a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings were $26 million, flat with the prior-year period.
     Further details include the following:
 
Non-GAAP Financial Information
     A reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2007 and 2006 financial information to the reported financial information is attached to this release and can also be found on the company's website at in the "Investor Center" section.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Conference Call
     The company will host a conference call to discuss these results on November 20, 2006 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-866-802-4323 and non-U.S. participants at 1-703-639-1320. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is "Campbell Soup" and the conference leader is Len Griehs. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at and can be accessed by clicking on the "Shareholder Event / Webcast" banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight November 24, 2006 at 1-888-266-2081 or 1-703-925-2533. The access code is 993507.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains "forward-looking statements" which reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements
 
concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, pricing, share repurchase, new product introductions and innovation, cost-saving initiatives, quality improvements, and portfolio strategies, including divestitures, on sales, earnings, and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
Reporting Segments
     Campbell Soup Company earnings results are reported for the following segments:
     includes the following retail businesses: "Campbell's" brand condensed and ready-to-serve soups, "Swanson" broth and canned poultry businesses, "Prego" pasta sauce, "Pace" Mexican sauce, "Campbell's Chunky" chili, "Campbell's" canned pasta, gravies and beans, "Campbell's Supper Bakes" meal kits, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, and "Campbell's" tomato juice.
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     includes the following businesses: "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products in U.S. retail, "Arnott's" biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific, and "Arnott's" salty snacks in Australia.
Baking and Snacking
 
     includes the soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Canada, Europe, Mexico, Latin America, and the Asia Pacific region.
International Soup and Sauces
     includes the Godiva Chocolatier business worldwide and the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
Other
About Campbell Soup Company
     Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high quality simple meals, including soups, baked snacks, vegetable-based beverages, and premium chocolate products. Founded in 1869, the company has a portfolio of market-leading brands, including "Campbell's," "Pepperidge Farm," "Arnott's," "V8," and "Godiva." For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website at .
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
 
In fiscal 2006, the company changed the method of accounting for certain U.S. inventories from the LIFO method to the average cost method. The impact of the change was reflected as a one-time non-cash pre-tax benefit of $13 ($8 after tax or $.02 per share).
In fiscal 2006, the company recorded a non-cash tax benefit of $47 resulting from the favorable resolution of a U.S. tax contingency related to a prior period. In addition, the company reduced interest expense and accrued interest payable by $21 and adjusted deferred tax expense by $8 ($13 after tax). The aggregate non-cash impact of the settlement on earnings from continuing operations was $60, or $.14 per share.
In fiscal 2006, incremental tax expense of $8 (or $.02 per share) was recorded related to earnings repatriated from non-U.S. subsidiaries under the provision of the American Jobs Creation Act.
The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal net earnings due to rounding.
 
In fiscal 2006, the company changed the method of accounting for certain U.S. inventories from the LIFO method to the average cost method. The impact of the change was reflected as a one-time non-cash pre-tax benefit of $13 ($8 after tax or $.02 per share). The pre-tax benefit is reflected as follows: U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages  $8 and Baking and Snacking  $5.
In fiscal 2006, the company recorded a non-cash tax benefit of $47 resulting from the favorable resolution of a U.S. tax contingency related to a prior period. In addition, the company reduced interest expense and accrued interest payable by $21 and adjusted deferred tax expense by $8 ($13 after tax). The aggregate non-cash impact of the settlement on earnings from continuing operations was $60, or $.14 per share.
In fiscal 2006, incremental tax expense of $8 (or $.02 per share) was recorded related to earnings repatriated from non-U.S. subsidiaries under the provision of the American Jobs Creation Act.
The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal net earnings due to rounding.
 
Certain reclassifications were made to prior year financial statements.
 
Campbell Soup Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. These non-GAAP financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures.
The company believes that net debt is a non-GAAP measure that provides additional meaningful comparisons between current results and prior period results and a useful perspective on the financial condition of the business. Interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents partially offsets interest expense on debt. Cash and cash equivalents are available to repay outstanding debt upon maturity.
The table below summarizes information on total debt and cash and cash equivalents:
The company believes that financial information excluding certain changes in accounting methods and other transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business improves the comparability of year-to-year results. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand its earnings results if these transactions are excluded from the results.
In fiscal 2006, the following changes in accounting methods and tax matters impacted earnings from continuing operations:
 
The table below reconciles financial information, presented in accordance with GAAP, to financial information excluding the impact of changes in accounting methods and certain tax matters:
 
Pro Forma Impact of Use of Proceeds from Sale of Businesses
In August 2006, the company completed the sale of its businesses in the United Kingdom and Ireland for 460 million or approximately $870 million and announced that approximately $620 million of the net proceeds would be used to repurchase shares. To improve the comparability of results, the following table illustrates the pro forma impact had 17 million shares been repurchased and eliminated from shares outstanding in the prior year:


