FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20070216085007.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 16, 2007, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended January 28, 2007, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)     Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     today reported earnings from continuing operations increased to $284 million in the second quarter ended January 28, 2007 from $239 million in the prior year. Earnings per share from continuing operations for the quarter were $.72, compared with $.58 in the year-ago period.
CAMDEN, NJ, February 16, 2007Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
     The current quarter's earnings from continuing operations included a $14 million gain, or $.04 per share, from the sale of an idle Pepperidge Farm facility in Connecticut. Excluding that gain, earnings from continuing operations were $270 million, an increase of 13 percent. Additionally, for comparability, the prior period's earnings per share from continuing operations require an adjustment to reflect the pro forma impact of using $620 million of the proceeds from the divestiture of the company's U.K. and Ireland businesses to purchase 17 millions shares of Campbell stock, a benefit of $.02. Adjusting for these items, earnings per share in the second quarter were $.68 compared to $.60 a year ago, an increase of 13 percent.
 
     For the second quarter, net sales rose 4 percent to $2.3 billion, reflecting the following factors:
     For the first half, earnings from continuing operations were $553 million compared to $525 million a year earlier. Earnings per share were $1.38 compared to $1.27 in the prior period. The current year included the $14 million gain, or $.04 per share, from the sale of the idle Pepperidge Farm facility. The prior period included an $8 million after-tax gain, or $.02 per share, from the change of inventory accounting method from LIFO to average cost; a $60 million non-cash gain, or $.14 per share, from a favorable resolution of a U.S. tax contingency; and an $8 million expense, or $.02 per share, associated with the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act. To provide comparability of results, as previously stated, the company's adjusted 2006 results reflect the pro forma impact of repurchasing 17 million shares of Campbell stock, which increases prior-year earnings per share by $.05. After factoring in these items, earnings from continuing operations for the first half were $539 million compared to $465 million, an increase of 16 percent. Adjusted earnings per share were $1.35 compared to $1.17 a year ago, an increase of 15 percent.
     For the first half of fiscal 2007, net sales rose 6 percent to $4.4 billion, reflecting the following factors:
 
     A detailed reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2007 and 2006 financial information to the reported information is attached to this release.
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We're off to a strong start in fiscal 2007. For the first half, our U.S. soup business delivered strong results with solid sales growth and enhanced profitability. Sales increased 4 percent with solid gains in condensed, ready-to-serve, and broth. We are encouraged by the early performance of our lower sodium soups, featuring natural sea salt. Initial trial and repeat purchases of these products have exceeded our plans and they are contributing to our growth. Despite a modest decline in U.S. soup sales during the second quarter, we are very satisfied with the performance of this business.
     "Beyond U.S. soup, we are especially pleased with the performance of our Pepperidge Farm, Arnott's, and U.S. beverage businesses in the first half. Our strategic growth platforms of simple meals and baked snacks continue to gain momentum in the marketplace.
     "Given our strong first half performance, we are increasing our forecasted fiscal 2007 EPS growth from continuing operations from a range of 5 to 7 percent to a range of 10 to 12 percent, from the adjusted pro forma fiscal 2006 base of $1.73."
 
Other Second Quarter Highlights
Other First Half Highlights
 
settle foreign currency hedges related to the divested U.K. business.
Summary of Fiscal 2007 Second Quarter Results by Segment
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $1.028 billion, up 1 percent compared with a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings increased to $274 million from $242 million in the year-ago quarter, driven by higher selling prices, productivity gains, and lower advertising expenditures.
 
     U.S. soup sales for the quarter declined 1 percent. Further details of sales results for the quarter include the following:
     Highlights of this segment's other businesses include:
 
Launched in the second quarter of last year, "V8 V-Fusion" is a 100-percent juice beverage that provides a full serving of vegetables and a full serving of fruit in each serving. The company introduced new varieties, pomegranate-blueberry and "V8 V-Fusion Light," during the quarter. Sales of "V8 Splash" juice beverages declined in the quarter.
     For the first half, sales increased 5 percent to $2.080 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings increased to $596 million from $530 million in the year-ago period, driven by higher sales, lower marketing expenses, and improved gross margins. Earnings for the first half of 2006 included an $8 million benefit from a change in the method of accounting for inventory.
Baking and Snacking
     Sales for Baking and Snacking were $454 million, up 6 percent compared with a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
 
     Operating earnings were $77 million compared to $40 million a year ago. Earnings in the current quarter included a $23 million gain from the sale of the idle Pepperidge Farm facility. Excluding this item, operating earnings increased significantly, driven by double-digit gains at Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's.
     Further details of sales results include the following:
     For the first half, sales increased 6 percent to $938 million. Operating earnings increased to $145 million from $90 million a year ago. Earnings in the current period included a $23 million gain from the sale of the idle Pepperidge Farm facility. Earnings for the first half of the prior year included a $5 million gain from a change in the method of accounting for inventory. Excluding these items, operating earnings increased significantly, driven by double-digit gains at Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's.
International Soup and Sauces
 
     Sales for International Soup and Sauces were $404 million, up 12 percent compared with a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings were $59 million compared to $61 million in the year-ago quarter. Operating earnings performance was driven by declines in Europe due to increased marketing expenses to support new products, partially offset by currency. Additionally, operating earnings were impacted by expenses to establish the company's businesses in Russia and China.
     Further details of sales results include the following:
     For the first half, sales increased 11 percent to $750 million, primarily driven by currency and volume and mix gains. Operating earnings increased to $107 million from $96 million in the year-ago period. The operating earnings performance was driven by double-digit increases in Canada and currency, partially offset by lower earnings in Europe and higher expenses to establish the company's businesses in Russia and China.
Other
     The balance of the portfolio includes the Godiva Chocolatier business worldwide and the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
 
     Sales were $366 million, up 4 percent compared with the same period a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings were $70 million compared to $69 million in the year-ago quarter.
     Further details include the following:
     For the first half, sales increased 4 percent to $637 million. Operating earnings were $96 million compared to $95 million in the year-ago period.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
     A reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2007 and 2006 financial information to the reported information is attached to this release and can also be found on the company's website at in the "Investor Center" section.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
 
Conference Call
The company will host a conference call to discuss these results on February 16, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-866-814-1933 and non-U.S. participants at 1-703-639-1365. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is "Campbell Soup" and the conference leader is Len Griehs. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at and can be accessed by clicking on the "Webcast" banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight February 23, 2007 at 1-888-266-2081 or 1-703-925-2533. The access code is 1030255.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains "forward-looking statements" which reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, pricing, share repurchase, new product introductions and innovation, cost-saving initiatives, quality improvements, and portfolio strategies, including divestitures, on sales, earnings, and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
 
Reporting Segments
     Campbell Soup Company earnings results are reported for the following segments:
     includes the following retail businesses: "Campbell's" brand condensed and ready-to-serve soups, "Swanson" broth and canned poultry businesses, "Prego" pasta sauce, "Pace" Mexican sauce, "Campbell's Chunky" chili, "Campbell's" canned pasta, gravies and beans, "Campbell's Supper Bakes" meal kits, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, and "Campbell's" tomato juice.
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     includes the following businesses: "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products in U.S. retail, "Arnott's" biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific, and "Arnott's" salty snacks in Australia.
Baking and Snacking
     includes the soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Canada, Europe, Mexico, Latin America, and the Asia Pacific region.
International Soup and Sauces
     includes the Godiva Chocolatier business worldwide and the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
Other
About Campbell Soup Company
     Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high quality simple meals, including soups, baked snacks, vegetable-based beverages, and premium chocolate products. Founded in 1869, the company has a portfolio of market-leading brands, including "Campbell's," "Pepperidge Farm," "Arnott's," "V8," and "Godiva." For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website at .
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
 
In fiscal 2007, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of $23 ($14 after tax or $.04 per share) from the sale of an idle manufacturing facility. The gain is included in Other expenses / (income).
The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal net earnings due to rounding.
 
In fiscal 2007, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of $23 ($14 after tax or $.04 per share) from the sale of an idle manufacturing facility. The gain is included in Other income.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the company changed the method of accounting for certain U.S. inventories from the LIFO method to the average cost method. The impact of the change was reflected as a one-time non-cash pre-tax benefit of $13 ($8 after tax or $.02 per share).
In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the company recorded a non-cash tax benefit of $47 resulting from the favorable resolution of a U.S. tax contingency related to a prior period. In addition, the company reduced interest expense and accrued interest payable by $21 and adjusted deferred tax expense by $8 ($13 after tax). The aggregate non-cash impact of the settlement on earnings from continuing operations was $60, or $.14 per share.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, incremental tax expense of $8 (or $.02 per share) was recorded related to earnings repatriated from non-U.S. subsidiaries under the provision of the American Jobs Creation Act.
 
In fiscal 2007, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of $23 ($14 after tax or $.04 per share) from the sale of an idle manufacturing facility in the Baking and Snacking segment.
The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal net earnings due to rounding.
 
In fiscal 2007, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of $23 ($14 after tax or $.04 per share) from the sale of an idle manufacturing facility in the Baking and Snacking segment.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the company changed the method of accounting for certain U.S. inventories from the LIFO method to the average cost method. The impact of the change was reflected as a one-time non-cash pre-tax benefit of $13 ($8 after tax or $.02 per share). The pre-tax benefit is reflected as follows: U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages  $8 and Baking and Snacking  $5.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the company recorded a non-cash tax benefit of $47 resulting from the favorable resolution of a U.S. tax contingency related to a prior period. In addition, the company reduced interest expense and accrued interest payable by $21 and adjusted deferred tax expense by $8 ($13 after tax). The aggregate non-cash impact of the settlement on earnings from continuing operations was $60, or $.14 per share.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, incremental tax expense of $8 (or $.02 per share) was recorded related to earnings repatriated from non-U.S. subsidiaries under the provision of the American Jobs Creation Act.
 
Certain reclassifications were made to prior year financial statements.
 
Campbell Soup Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. These non-GAAP financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures.
The company believes that net debt is a non-GAAP measure that provides additional meaningful comparisons between current results and prior period results and a useful perspective on the financial condition of the business. Interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents partially offsets interest expense on debt. Cash and cash equivalents are available to repay outstanding debt upon maturity.
The table below summarizes information on total debt and cash and cash equivalents:
The company believes that financial information excluding a change in accounting method and other transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business improves the comparability of year-to-year results. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand its earnings results if these transactions are excluded from the results.
The following change in accounting method, certain tax matters and other transactions impacted earnings from continuing operations:
 
The tables below reconcile financial information, presented in accordance with GAAP, to financial information excluding the impact of change in accounting method and certain transactions:
 
 
Pro Forma Impact of Use of Proceeds from Sale of Businesses
In August 2006, the company completed the sale of its businesses in the United Kingdom and Ireland for 460 million or approximately $870 million and announced that approximately $620 million of the net proceeds would be used to repurchase shares. To improve the comparability of results, the following table illustrates the pro forma impact had 17 million shares been repurchased and eliminated from shares outstanding in the prior year:
 
Adjusted Pro Forma Fiscal 2006 Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations
The following table illustrates the reconciliation of reported results to adjusted results excluding the impact of certain changes in accounting method and other transactions, and the pro forma impact of utilizing the net proceeds from the sale of the businesses in the United Kingdom and Ireland to repurchase shares. In addition to items that impacted Earnings from continuing operations in the six-month period ended January 29, 2006, the following items impacted the full year ended July 30, 2006:


