FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20070906072531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On September 6, 2007, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter and year ended July 29, 2007, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today reported earnings from continuing operations for the fourth quarter ended July 29, 2007 of $53 million, or $.14 per share, compared to $84 million, or $.20 per share, in the year-ago quarter. Earnings per share from continuing operations were $.14 compared to an adjusted $.19 a year ago, which excludes items impacting comparability, a decrease of 26 percent. For the year, excluding items impacting comparability, earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.95 compared to $1.73 in fiscal 2006, an increase of 13 percent.
CAMDEN, NJ, September 6, 2007Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, We finished fiscal 2007 with strong sales performance in the fourth quarter across all of our
"
 
reporting segments, despite flat U.S. soup sales. We delivered earnings consistent with our guidance at the end of the third quarter while making increased investments in marketing and our supply chain.
     "For the year, our overall results were outstanding. Our performance in fiscal 2007 demonstrated the strength of our businesses within the simple meals, baked snacks, and vegetable-based beverages categories. Our sales growth from continuing operations of 7 percent was above our target range, and our earnings per share growth from continuing operations of 13 percent, on an adjusted basis, also exceeded our long-term target. By continuing to leverage our competitive advantages in our key categories, Campbell is well positioned for quality sales and earnings growth.
     Conant continued, "We achieved our outstanding fiscal 2007 results while making key investments in our businesses and systems. In our international business, we expanded our global focus by preparing for major product introductions in Russia and China, the world's two largest soup consumption markets with the highest growth potential. In our core U.S. soup business, we continued to drive improvements in quality, convenience, and wellness. We expanded our distribution capabilities and addressed the increased volume requirements of our growing beverage business. And finally, we continued our successful SAP installation in the U.S. All of these investments are designed to ensure Campbell's performance is sustainable over the long term."
     Conant concluded, "For fiscal 2008, we expect our continuing operations to deliver sales growth in excess of our long-term target range of between 3 and 4 percent, due in part to a 53 week of sales in the fiscal year. We also expect to deliver EBIT growth between 7 and 9 percent from the fiscal 2007 adjusted base of $1.250 billion and
rd
2
 
earnings per share growth between 5 and 7 percent from the fiscal 2007 adjusted base of $1.95, consistent with our long-term EPS growth target. Our EPS outlook reflects a significantly higher tax rate for fiscal 2008, which we noted previously, somewhat offset by the 53 week of sales."
rd
     For the quarter, Campbell reported earnings from continuing operations of $53 million, or $.14 per share, compared to $74 million, or $.19 per share, in the year-ago quarter, which excludes items impacting comparability. The items in fiscal 2006 that impacted comparability are summarized below:
     For the fourth quarter, net sales rose 10 percent to $1.594 billion, reflecting the following factors:
3
 
Other Fourth Quarter Highlights
4
 
     For fiscal 2007, earnings from continuing operations were $823 million versus $755 million a year earlier. Earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.08 compared to $1.82 recorded in the year-ago period. The items impacting comparability are summarized below:
5
 
     Excluding items impacting comparability, earnings from continuing operations were $771 million in fiscal 2007 compared to $686 million in fiscal 2006, an increase of 12 percent. Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal 2007 were $1.95 compared to an adjusted result of $1.73 in fiscal 2006, an increase of 13 percent.
6
 
     A detailed reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2007 and 2006 financial information to the reported information is attached to this release.
     For fiscal 2007, net sales were $7.867 billion, an increase of 7 percent compared with the year-ago period, reflecting the following factors:
Other Full Year Fiscal 2007 Highlights
7
 
Summary of Fourth Quarter and Fiscal 2007 Results by Segment
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $599 million in the quarter, an 8 percent increase compared to a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
8
 
     For the quarter, operating earnings were $84 million compared to $114 million in the year-ago period. The decrease in operating earnings was primarily due to increased marketing expenses and higher supply chain costs, partially offset by higher sales.
     U.S. soup sales for the quarter were flat compared to a year ago. Condensed soup sales increased 1 percent and broth sales climbed 8 percent, while ready-to-serve soup sales declined 4 percent. Further details of sales results for the quarter include the following:
     Highlights of this segment's other businesses include:
9
 
     For fiscal 2007, sales increased 7 percent to $3.486 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     For the year, operating earnings were $862 million compared to $815 million in the year-ago period. The prior year period included an $8 million benefit from a change in the method of accounting for inventory. The increase in operating earnings was driven by higher sales and productivity gains, partially offset by cost inflation and higher advertising expenses.
     For the year, total U.S. soup sales increased 5 percent, with condensed soup sales up 3 percent, ready-to-serve soup sales up 5 percent, and broth sales up 12 percent.
     Further details of sales results for the year include the following:
10
 
     Highlights of this segment's other businesses include:
Baking and Snacking
     Sales for Baking and Snacking were $471 million in the quarter, up 8 percent compared with the year-ago period.
     A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
11
 
     For the quarter, operating earnings were $49 million compared to $62 million in the year-ago period, driven by declines in Asia Pacific and lower earnings at Pepperidge Farm. Operating earnings in the Asia Pacific region declined due to one-time costs associated with streamlining the company's supply chain organization in Australia and Indonesia, as well as declines in the Australian snack foods business, partially offset by currency. Earnings at Pepperidge Farm declined due to higher marketing and manufacturing expenses, partially offset by higher sales.
     Further details of sales results include the following:
     For fiscal 2007, Baking and Snacking sales increased 6 percent to $1.850 billion. A breakdown in the change in sales follows:
12
 
     For the year, operating earnings increased to $240 million from $187 million a year ago. Earnings for fiscal 2006 included a $5 million benefit from a change in the method of accounting for inventory, while earnings for fiscal 2007 included a $23 million gain from the sale of an idle Pepperidge Farm facility. Operating earnings growth is primarily due to higher earnings at Pepperidge Farm and the favorable impact of currency. Within Arnott's, excluding the impact of currency, increases in biscuit earnings were offset by declines in the snack foods business.
     Further details of fiscal 2007 sales results include the following:
International Soup and Sauces
     Sales for International Soup and Sauces were $309 million in the quarter, a 19 percent increase compared to a year ago.
     A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
13
 
     For the quarter, operating earnings were $19 million compared to $5 million in the year-ago period. The earnings increase was due to growth in Europe and Canada, partially offset by expenses to establish Campbell's businesses in Russia and China.
     Sales increased due to currency, growth in Canada driven by the performance of soup and beverages businesses, and gains in soup in Germany and France.
     For fiscal 2007, International Soup and Sauces sales increased 11 percent to $1.399 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     For the year, operating earnings were $169 million compared to $144 million in the prior-year period. Operating earnings were driven by increases in European and Canadian businesses, in part due to currency, partially offset by expenses to establish Campbell's businesses in Russia and China.
     Further details of sales results include the following:
Other
     The balance of the portfolio includes the Godiva Chocolatier business worldwide and the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
14
 
     Sales were $215 million in the quarter, an increase of 8 percent compared to the same period a year ago.
     A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     For the quarter, operating earnings were $5 million compared with an operating loss of $12 million in the same period a year ago. Operating earnings performance was due to a $10 million gain recognized from a settlement in lieu of condemnation related to the former StockPot refrigerated soup facility in Woodinville, Washington and improved operating performance in the Away From Home business.
     Further details of sales results include the following:
     For fiscal 2007, sales increased 4 percent to $1.132 billion compared to the same period a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
15
 
     For the year, operating earnings were $124 million compared to $110 million in the prior-year period. Operating earnings growth was driven by improved operating performance in Away From Home and the gain from the settlement related to the former refrigerated soup facility, partially offset by costs associated with the relocation and start up of the new refrigerated soup facility.
     Further details include the following:
Non-GAAP Financial Information
     A reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2007 and 2006 financial information to the reported information is attached to this release and can also be found on the company's website at in the "Investor Center" section.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Conference Call
     The company will host a conference call to discuss these results on September 6, 2007 at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-866-802-4322 and non-U.S. participants at 1-703-639-1319. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is "Campbell Soup" and the conference
16
 
leader is Len Griehs. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at and can be accessed by clicking on the "Webcast" banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight September 14, 2007 at 1-888-266-2081 or 1-703-925-2533. The access code is 602828.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains "forward-looking statements" which reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, pricing, share repurchase, new product introductions and innovation, cost-saving initiatives, quality improvements, and portfolio strategies, including divestitures, on sales, earnings, and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
Reporting Segments
     Campbell Soup Company earnings results are reported for the following segments:
     includes the following retail businesses: "Campbell's" brand condensed and ready-to-serve soups, "Swanson" broth and canned
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
17
 
poultry businesses, "Prego" pasta sauce, "Pace" Mexican sauce, "Campbell's Chunky" chili, "Campbell's" canned pasta, gravies and beans, "Campbell's Supper Bakes" meal kits, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, and "Campbell's" tomato juice.
     includes the following businesses: "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products in U.S. retail, "Arnott's" biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific, and "Arnott's" salty snacks in Australia.
Baking and Snacking
     includes the soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Canada, Europe, Mexico, Latin America, and the Asia Pacific region.
International Soup and Sauces
     includes the Godiva Chocolatier business worldwide and the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
Other
Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high quality foods and simple meals, including soup, baked snacks, vegetable-based beverages, and premium chocolate products, with annual revenues of nearly $7.9 billion. Founded in 1869, the company has a portfolio of market-leading brands, including "Campbell's," "Pepperidge Farm," "Arnott's," "V8," and "Godiva." For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website at .
About Campbell Soup Company
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
18
 
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, an incremental tax expense of $4 (or $.01 per share) was recorded related to earnings repatriated from non-U.S. subsidiaries under the provision of the American Jobs Creation Act.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, a non-cash tax benefit of $14 (or $.03 per share) was recorded from the anticipated use of higher levels of foreign tax credits, which could be utilized as a result of the sale of the company's United Kingdom and Ireland businesses.
In fiscal 2006, earnings from discontinued operations included $56 of deferred tax expense due to book/tax basis differences and $5 after-tax costs associated with the sale of the United Kingdom and Ireland businesses.
The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal net earnings due to rounding.
Certain reclassifications were made to prior year financial statements.
 
In the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recorded a pre-tax non-cash benefit of $20 ($13 after tax or $.03 per share) from the reversal of legal reserves due to favorable results in litigation. The benefit is included in Administrative expenses.
 
In the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recorded a tax benefit of $22 resulting from the favorable settlement of bilateral advance pricing agreements among the company, the United States, and Canada related to royalties. In connection with the settlement, the company reduced net interest expense by $4 ($3 after tax). The aggregate impact on earnings from continuing operations was $25, or $.06 per share.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of $23 ($14 after tax or $.04 per share) from the sale of an idle manufacturing facility. The gain is included in Other expenses / (income).
In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the company changed the method of accounting for certain U.S. inventories from the LIFO method to the average cost method. The impact of the change was reflected as a one-time non-cash pre-tax benefit of $13 ($8 after tax or $.02 per share).
In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the company recorded a non-cash tax benefit of $47 resulting from the favorable resolution of a U.S. tax contingency related to a prior period. In addition, the company reduced interest expense and accrued interest payable by $21 and adjusted deferred tax expense by $8 ($13 after tax). The aggregate non-cash impact of the settlement on earnings from continuing operations was $60, or $.14 per share.
In fiscal 2006, incremental tax expense of $13 (or $.03 per share) was recorded related to earnings repatriated from non-U.S. subsidiaries under the provision of the American Jobs Creation Act.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, a non-cash tax benefit of $14 (or $.03 per share) was recorded from the anticipated use of higher levels of foreign tax credits, which could be utilized as a result of the sale of the company's United Kingdom and Ireland businesses.
In fiscal 2006, earnings from discontinued operations included $56 of deferred tax expense due to book/tax basis differences and $5 after-tax costs associated with the sale of the United Kingdom and Ireland businesses.
The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal net earnings due to rounding.
Certain reclassifications were made to prior year financial statements.
 
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, an incremental tax expense of $4 (or $.01 per share) was recorded related to earnings repatriated from non-U.S. subsidiaries under the provision of the American Jobs Creation Act.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, a non-cash tax benefit of $14 (or $.03 per share) was recorded from the anticipated use of higher levels of foreign tax credits, which could be utilized as a result of the sale of the company's United Kingdom and Ireland businesses.
In fiscal 2006, earnings from discontinued operations included $56 of deferred tax expense due to book/tax basis differences and $5 after-tax costs associated with the sale of the United Kingdom and Ireland businesses.
The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal net earnings due to rounding.
 
In the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recorded a pre-tax non-cash benefit of $20 ($13 after tax or $.03 per share) from the reversal of legal reserves due to favorable results in litigation. The benefit is included in Unallocated corporate expenses.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recorded a tax benefit of $22 resulting from the favorable settlement of bilateral advance pricing agreements among the company, the United States, and Canada related to royalties. In connection with the settlement, the company reduced net interest expense by $4 ($3 after tax). The aggregate impact on earnings from continuing operations was $25, or $.06 per share.
 
In the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of $23 ($14 after tax or $.04 per share) from the sale of an idle manufacturing facility in the Baking and Snacking segment.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the company changed the method of accounting for certain U.S. inventories from the LIFO method to the average cost method. The impact of the change was reflected as a one-time non-cash pre-tax benefit of $13 ($8 after tax or $.02 per share). The pre-tax benefit is reflected as follows: U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages  $8 and Baking and Snacking  $5.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the company recorded a non-cash tax benefit of $47 resulting from the favorable resolution of a U.S. tax contingency related to a prior period. In addition, the company reduced interest expense and accrued interest payable by $21 and adjusted deferred tax expense by $8 ($13 after tax). The aggregate non-cash impact of the settlement on earnings from continuing operations was $60, or $.14 per share.
In fiscal 2006, incremental tax expense of $13 (or $.03 per share) was recorded related to earnings repatriated from non-U.S. subsidiaries under the provision of the American Jobs Creation Act.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, a non-cash tax benefit of $14 (or $.03 per share) was recorded from the anticipated use of higher levels of foreign tax credits, which could be utilized as a result of the sale of the company's United Kingdom and Ireland businesses.
In fiscal 2006, earnings from discontinued operations included $56 of deferred tax expense due to book/tax basis differences and $5 after-tax costs associated with the sale of the United Kingdom and Ireland businesses.
 
Certain reclassifications were made to prior year financial statements.
 
Campbell Soup Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. These non-GAAP financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures.
Net Debt
The company believes that net debt is a non-GAAP measure that provides additional meaningful comparisons between the company's financial position at July 29, 2007 and July 30, 2006, and also a useful perspective on the financial condition of the business. Interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents partially offsets interest expense on debt. Cash and cash equivalents are available to repay outstanding debt upon maturity.
The table below summarizes information on total debt and cash and cash equivalents:
Items Impacting Earnings From Continuing Operations
The company believes that financial information excluding a change in accounting method and other transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business improves the comparability of year-to-year results. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand its earnings results if these transactions are excluded from the results.
The following change in accounting method, certain tax matters and other transactions impacted earnings from continuing operations:
 
The tables below reconcile financial information, presented in accordance with GAAP, to financial information excluding the impact of a change in accounting method, certain tax matters and other transactions:
 
 
Pro Forma Impact of Use of Proceeds from Sale of Businesses
In August 2006, the company completed the sale of its businesses in the United Kingdom and Ireland for 460 million or approximately $870 million and announced that approximately $620 million of the net proceeds would be used to repurchase shares. To improve the comparability of results, the following table illustrates the pro forma impact had 17 million shares been repurchased and eliminated from shares outstanding in the prior year:


