FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20071119084038.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 19, 2007, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended October 28, 2007, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     today reported earnings from continuing operations for the quarter ended October 28, 2007 of $270 million, compared to $269 million in the prior year. Earnings per share from continuing operations for the current quarter were $.70, compared to $.66 in the year-ago period, an increase of 6 percent, reflecting a lower average number of diluted shares outstanding due to the company's share repurchase programs.
CAMDEN, N.J., November 19, 2007Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
     For the first quarter, sales increased 7 percent to $2.298 billion. Sales for the quarter reflect the following factors:
 
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We are satisfied with our sales performance in the quarter, which was driven by solid overall volume growth. We are pleased with the performance of many businesses in our portfolio, including the strong top line growth in our baking and snacking business and our U.S. beverage business, which continued its strong growth trend. U.S. soup sales declined slightly compared to a very strong quarter a year ago when we launched our new line of lower sodium soups. U.S. soup results also were significantly impacted by an exceptionally warm autumn."
     Conant continued, "Overall, the company's gross margins were negatively impacted in the quarter primarily due to higher cost inflation, which was not sufficiently offset by our pricing actions. We plan to improve our margin performance during the year through a combination of greater price realization and ongoing productivity improvements."
     Conant concluded, "We remain confident in our products and plans for all of our businesses, including U.S. soup. As we head into the key consumption period for soup, I fully expect that our U.S. soup business will deliver better performance as the year progresses."
     The company confirmed its previous fiscal 2008 guidance. Campbell expects its continuing operations to deliver sales growth in excess of its long-term target range of between 3 and 4 percent, due in part to a 53 week of sales this fiscal year. The company also expects to deliver EBIT growth between 7 and 9 percent from the fiscal 2007 adjusted base of $1.250 billion and earnings per share growth from continuing operations
rd
 
between 5 and 7 percent from the fiscal 2007 adjusted base of $1.95, consistent with its long-term EPS growth target.
     A detailed reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2008 and 2007 financial information to the reported information is attached to this release.
First Quarter Financial Details
 
Summary of Fiscal 2008 First Quarter Results by Segment
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $1.097 billion, an increase of 4 percent compared to a year ago. The change in sales reflects the following factors:
     Total soup sales for the quarter declined 1 percent, compared to 10 percent growth a year ago, driven by the following:
 
     Operating earnings were $310 million compared with $322 million in the prior-year period. The decrease in operating earnings was primarily due to cost inflation and increased advertising and promotional spending, partially offset by higher sales volumes and productivity gains.
     Highlights of this segment's other businesses include:
 
Baking and Snacking
     Sales for Baking and Snacking were $532 million, up 10 percent from a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
     Operating earnings were $73 million compared with $68 million in the prior-year period. The increase in operating earnings was driven by the favorable impact of currency. Within Arnott's, gains in the biscuit business were offset by an earnings decline in the snack foods business. In Pepperidge Farm, sales gains were offset by the impact of higher commodity costs.
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for International Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $389 million, an increase of 12 percent compared to a year ago. The change in sales reflects the following factors:
     Excluding the impact of currency, sales growth was driven by solid gains in the company's businesses in Canada, Mexico, the Asia Pacific region, Belgium, and France.
     Operating earnings were $51 million compared to $48 million in the year-ago period. The increase in operating earnings was driven by the favorable impact of currency and improved sales performance, partially offset by increased expenses to establish Campbell's businesses in Russia and China. Campbell's soup products are now available in both markets, as planned.
 
Other
     The balance of the portfolio includes the Godiva Chocolatier business worldwide and the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
     Sales were $280 million, up 3 percent from a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
     Operating earnings were $25 million, compared to $26 million in the prior-year period.
     As previously announced, Campbell is exploring strategic alternatives, including possible divestiture, for the Godiva business.
     Unallocated Corporate expenses increased $2 million to $28 million.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Information
     A reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2008 and 2007 financial information to the reported financial information is attached to this release and can also be found on the company's website at in the "Investor Center" section.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Conference Call
     The company will host a conference call to discuss these results on November 19, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-866-219-5885 and non-U.S. participants at 1-703-639-1124. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is "Campbell Soup" and the conference leader is Len Griehs. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at and can be accessed by clicking on the "Shareholder Event / Webcast" banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight November 23, 2007 at 1-888-266-2081 or 1-703-925-2533. The access code is 1152446.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Reporting Segments
     Campbell Soup Company earnings results are reported for the following segments:
     includes the following retail businesses: "Campbell's" brand condensed and ready-to-serve soups, "Swanson" broth and canned poultry businesses, "Prego" pasta sauce, "Pace" Mexican sauce, "Campbell's Chunky" chili, "Campbell's" canned pasta, gravies and beans, "Campbell's Supper Bakes" meal kits, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, and "Campbell's" tomato juice.
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
 
     includes the following businesses: "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products in U.S. retail, "Arnott's" biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific, and "Arnott's" salty snacks in Australia.
Baking and Snacking
     includes the soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Canada, Europe, Mexico, Latin America, and the Asia Pacific region.
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     includes the Godiva Chocolatier business worldwide and the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
Other
About Campbell Soup Company
Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high quality foods and simple meals, including soup, baked snacks, vegetable-based beverages, and premium chocolate products, with annual revenues in excess of $7.8 billion. Founded in 1869, the company has a portfolio of market-leading brands, including "Campbell's," "Pepperidge Farm," "Arnott's," "V8," and "Godiva." For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website at .
www.campbellsoup.com
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains "forward-looking statements" that reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, pricing, share repurchase, new product introductions and innovation, cost-saving initiatives, quality improvements, and portfolio strategies, including divestitures, on sales, earnings, and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates that could be
 
inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
 
The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal net earnings due to rounding.
 
The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal net earnings due to rounding.
 
Certain reclassifications were made to prior year financial statements.
 
Campbell Soup Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. These non-GAAP financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures.
Net Debt
The company believes that net debt is a non-GAAP measure that provides additional meaningful comparisons between the company's financial position at October 28, 2007 and October 29, 2006, and also a useful perspective on the financial condition of the business. Interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents partially offsets interest expense on debt. Cash and cash equivalents are available to repay outstanding debt upon maturity.
The table below summarizes information on total debt and cash and cash equivalents:
Items Impacting Earnings From Continuing Operations in Fiscal 2007
The company believes that financial information excluding certain tax matters and other transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business improves the comparability of year-to-year results. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand its earnings results if these transactions are excluded from the results.
The following items impacted earnings from continuing operations in fiscal 2007:
 
The table below reconciles financial information, presented in accordance with GAAP, to financial information excluding the impact of certain tax matters and other transactions:


