FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20081124084957.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 24, 2008, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended November 2, 2008, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today reported net earnings for the quarter ended November 2, 2008 of $260 million, or $0.71 per share, compared to $270 million, or $0.70 per share, in the prior year. The current quarter's reported net earnings included charges associated with previously announced restructuring initiatives and the impact of an unrealized loss on the company's commodity hedging activities. Excluding all items impacting comparability, adjusted net earnings were $281 million and adjusted net earnings per share were $0.77 in the current quarter, an increase of 10 percent.
CAMDEN, N.J., November 24, 2008Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
     A detailed reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2009 and 2008 financial information to the reported information is attached to this release.
 
     The items impacting comparability of net earnings are summarized below:
 
     For the first quarter, sales increased 3 percent to $2.250 billion. Sales growth for the quarter reflects the following factors:
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We are off to a good start to the year. Our product innovations and marketing efforts have resulted in strong top-line performance across our U.S. soup portfolio. This was especially evident in our condensed soup and broth businesses, both of which had double-digit gains in the quarter. We also are encouraged by the successful launch and early results of our new Campbell's Select Harvest' and Campbell's' V8' ready-to-serve soups.
 
     "Beyond U.S. soup, we had strong performance in our U.S. sauces business, although the growth of our U.S. beverage business slowed compared to the rapid growth of the last several quarters. Pepperidge Farm again delivered strong sales performance with Goldfish' and Baked Naturals snack crackers. Arnott's achieved significant growth in its savory crackers business, and our European branded soup performance was solid. In emerging markets, we continued to invest in our businesses in Russia and China as we prepared to expand our operations in both countries."
     Conant concluded, "We are pleased with our performance in today's challenging and uncertain economic environment. Campbell's product portfolio is well positioned in both good and tough economic times. As consumers continue to seek value, they can choose a variety of Campbell's products to help them provide wholesome, affordable food."
Fiscal 2009 Guidance
     In September 2008, Campbell stated that for fiscal 2009 it expected to deliver sales growth, excluding the negative impact of one less week in the fiscal year and divestitures, in excess of its long-term target range of between 3 and 4 percent; adjusted EBIT growth slightly below its long-term growth target of between 5 and 6 percent, reflecting the impact of one less week, higher marketing spending and increased investment spending in Russia and China; and growth in adjusted net earnings per share of between 5 and 7 percent from the fiscal 2008 adjusted base of $2.09.
     Approximately 25 to 30 percent of Campbell's sales and earnings come from non-U.S. operations. On a currency neutral basis, Campbell expects to deliver its previously announced targets. Notwithstanding the fact that the company is making efforts to improve future performance, at quarter-end rates of exchange, the company's fiscal 2009 sales, EBIT and EPS growth rates each would be negatively impacted by approximately 5 percentage points as a result of currency translation.
 
First Quarter Financial Details
Summary of Fiscal 2009 First Quarter Results by Segment
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $1.198 billion, an increase of 9 percent compared to a year ago. The change in sales reflects the following factors:
 
     Total soup sales for the quarter increased 12 percent, compared to a 1 percent decline a year ago, driven by the following:
     Further details of the sales results of this segment's other businesses include:
 
     Operating earnings were $314 million compared to $309 million in the prior-year period. The increase in operating earnings was due to higher sales and productivity gains, partially offset by cost inflation and higher advertising expenses.
Baking and Snacking
     Sales for Baking and Snacking were $509 million, a decrease of 4 percent from a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for International Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $380 million, a decrease of 3 percent compared to a year ago. The change in sales reflects the following factors:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
     Operating earnings were $38 million compared to $51 million in the year-ago period. The decline in operating earnings was due to the incremental cost to establish businesses in Russia and China, a decline in the Canadian business and the unfavorable impact of currency.
North America Foodservice
     Sales were $163 million, a decrease of 2 percent compared to a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
 
     Excluding the impact of currency, sales declined primarily due to the negative impact from discontinuing certain unprofitable products and weakness in the food service sector.
     Operating earnings were $11 million compared to operating earnings of $24 million in the prior period. The current year included $7 million in accelerated depreciation and other exit costs related to the previously announced restructuring program. The remaining decline in operating earnings was primarily due to lower volumes.
Unallocated Corporate Expenses
     Unallocated corporate expenses increased from $28 million a year ago to $47 million in the current quarter. The increase was due to a $26 million unrealized loss on commodity hedging included in the current year, partially offset by lower expenses related to the company's ongoing SAP implementation in North America and gains recognized on foreign currency hedging transactions. Beginning in fiscal 2009, unrealized gains and losses on commodity hedging activities are excluded from segment operating earnings and recorded in unallocated corporate expenses as these open positions represent hedges of future purchases. Upon closing of the contracts, the realized gain or loss will be transferred to segment operating earnings. This allows the segments to reflect the economic effects of the hedge without exposure to quarterly volatility of unrealized gains and losses. In prior periods, unrealized gains and losses on commodity hedging activities were not material.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Information
     A reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2009 and 2008 financial information to the reported financial information is attached to this release and can also be found on the company's website at in the "Investor Center" section.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Conference Call
     The company will host a conference call to discuss these results on November 24, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-866-835-8908 and non-U.S. participants at 1-703-639-1415. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is "Campbell Soup" and the conference leader is Len Griehs. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at and can be accessed by clicking on the "Shareholder Event / Webcast" banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight December 1, 2008 at 1-888-266-2081 or 1-703-925-2533. The access code is 1305905.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Reporting Segments
     Campbell Soup Company earnings results are reported for the following segments:
     includes the following retail businesses: "Campbell's" brand condensed and ready-to-serve soups, "Swanson" broth and canned poultry businesses, "Prego" pasta sauce, "Pace" Mexican sauce, "Campbell's Chunky" chili, "Campbell's" canned pasta, gravies and beans, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 V-Fusion" juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, "Campbell's" tomato juice, and "Wolfgang Puck" soups, stocks and broths.
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     includes the following businesses: "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products in U.S. retail, "Arnott's" biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific, and "Arnott's" salty snacks in Australia.
Baking and Snacking
     includes the soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Europe, Mexico, Latin
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
 
America, the Asia Pacific region, as well as the emerging markets of Russia and China, and the retail business in Canada.
     includes the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
North America Foodservice
About Campbell Soup Company
Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high-quality foods and simple meals, including soup, baked snacks, and healthy beverages. Founded in 1869, the company has a portfolio of market-leading brands, including "Campbell's," "Pepperidge Farm," "Arnott's," and "V8." For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website at
www.campbellsoup.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" that reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, pricing, share repurchase, new product introductions and innovation, cost-saving initiatives, quality improvements, inflation, commodity hedging, currency translation and portfolio strategies, including divestitures, on sales, earnings, and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates that could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause the company's actual results to vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement include (1) the impact of strong competitive responses to the company's efforts to leverage its brand power in the market; (2) the risks associated with trade and consumer acceptance of the company's initiatives; (3) the company's ability to realize projected cost savings and benefits; (4) the company's ability to manage changes to its business processes; (5) the increased significance of certain of the company's key trade customers; (6) the impact of fluctuations in the supply or costs of energy and raw and packaging materials; (7) the risks associated with portfolio changes; (8) the uncertainties of litigation; (9) the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, tax rates, interest rates, debt and equity markets, inflation rates, economic conditions and other external factors; (10) the impact of
 
unforeseen business disruptions in one or more of the company's markets due to political instability, civil disobedience, armed hostilities, natural disasters or other calamities; and (11) other factors described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
 
In fiscal 2009, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring related costs in cost of products sold of $7 ($5 after tax or $.01 per share) related to the initiatives announced in April 2008 to improve operational efficiency.
In fiscal 2009, the company recognized $26 ($16 after tax or $.04 per share) in cost of products sold related to an unrealized loss on commodity hedges.
The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal due to rounding.
 
In fiscal 2009, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring related costs in cost of products sold of $7 ($5 after tax or $.01 per share) related to the initiatives announced in April 2008 to improve operational efficiency. The restructuring related costs were recognized in the North America Foodservice segment.
In fiscal 2009, the company recognized $26 ($16 after tax or $.04 per share) in cost of products sold related to an unrealized loss on commodity hedges. The loss is included in Unallocated corporate expenses.
 
 
Campbell Soup Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. These non-GAAP financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures.
Net Debt
The company believes that net debt is a non-GAAP measure that provides additional meaningful comparisons between the company's financial position at November 2, 2008 and October 28, 2007, and also a useful perspective on the financial condition of the business. Interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents partially offsets interest expense on debt. Cash and cash equivalents are available to repay outstanding debt upon maturity.
The table below summarizes information on total debt and cash and cash equivalents:
Items Impacting Net Earnings
The company believes that financial information excluding certain transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business improves the comparability of year-to-year results. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand its earnings results if these transactions are excluded from the results.
The following items impacted net earnings:
 
The tables below reconcile financial information, presented in accordance with GAAP, to financial information excluding certain transactions:
 
 
 


