FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20080519084303.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On May 19, 2008, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended April 27, 2008, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     today reported net earnings for the quarter ended April 27, 2008 of $532 million, or $1.40 per share, compared to $217 million, or $0.55 per share, in the year-ago period. The current quarter's reported net earnings included a gain from the sale of the Godiva business, partially offset by charges associated with previously announced restructuring initiatives. Excluding all items impacting comparability in both periods, adjusted net earnings were $165 million compared to $179 million in the prior year's quarter and adjusted net earnings per share were $0.43 in the current quarter compared to $0.45 in the year-ago period.
CAMDEN, N.J., May 19, 2008Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
     A detailed reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2008 and 2007 financial information to the reported information is attached to this release.
     On March 18, 2008, Campbell completed the sale of the Godiva business, the results of which are reported as discontinued operations for all periods. Additionally, in
 
the third quarter, Campbell recorded restructuring charges related to previously announced initiatives to improve operational efficiency and enhance long-term profitability, including the sale of certain salty snack foods brands and assets in Australia, the closure of production facilities in Australia and Canada, and the streamlining of its management structure.
     The current and prior quarter's net earnings included items that impacted comparability. These items are summarized below:
 
     In the third quarter, earnings from continuing operations were $54 million compared to $210 million in the prior year. Earnings per share from continuing operations for the current quarter were $0.14 compared to earnings per share of $0.53 in the year-ago period. Excluding items impacting comparability in both years, adjusted earnings from continuing operations in the third quarter were $154 million compared to $172 million in the year-ago period. Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.40 compared to $0.44 in the prior-year period.
 
     Earnings from discontinued operations for the quarter were $478 million compared to $7 million in the prior-year period. The current quarter included a $707 million pre-tax gain, $467 million after tax, or $1.23 per share, related to the sale of the Godiva business. Excluding the gain on the sale, adjusted earnings from discontinued operations were $11 million, or $0.03 per share, compared to $7 million, or $0.02 per share, a year ago.
     For the third quarter, sales increased 7 percent to $1.880 billion. Sales growth for the quarter reflects the following factors:
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We delivered solid sales growth in the quarter across many of our businesses, including beverages, baking and snacking, and international. However, in U.S. soup, as anticipated, we had a difficult third quarter as we were lapping a very strong quarter a year ago and we took significant pricing actions to address the dramatic increases in cost inflation. While third quarter adjusted net earnings were below last year, we anticipate a strong finish to our fiscal year. Looking ahead to next year, we have plans in place both in terms of new products, especially lower sodium varieties, and marketing programs that we believe will enable us to continue to grow our U.S. soup business."
     Conant continued, "Looking at our broader portfolio, we continued to have strong results in several key businesses. In healthy beverages, our U.S. beverage business again delivered double-digit sales growth. In baked snacks, both Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's also had very solid sales gains. Our international businesses delivered improved sales performance and we continue to be encouraged by the early results in our emerging markets of Russia and China. Finally, with the sale of Godiva and our recent actions to improve operational efficiency and exit underperforming businesses in Australia, we have further sharpened our focus on simple meals, baked snacks, and healthy beverages. We believe this increased focus positions us well for long-term, profitable growth."
 
     Consistent with its previous guidance, Campbell expects adjusted net earnings per share growth between 5 and 7 percent from the fiscal 2007 adjusted base of $1.95.
     The current and prior period's net earnings included items that impacted comparability. These items are summarized below:
     Net earnings for the nine months of fiscal 2008 were $1.076 billion, or $2.79 per share, compared to $793 million, or $1.99 per share, in the year-ago period.
     Excluding items impacting comparability, adjusted net earnings were $701 million compared to $718 million in the year-ago period. Adjusted net earnings per share were $1.82 in the current period compared to $1.80 in the prior period, an increase of 1 percent.
 
     For the nine months of fiscal 2008, earnings from continuing operations were $582 million versus $734 million a year earlier. Earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.51 compared to $1.84 a year ago.
     Excluding the above-referenced items in both years, adjusted earnings from continuing operations for the nine months were $669 million compared to $682 million a year ago and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.74 compared to $1.71 a year ago, an increase of 2 percent.
     Earnings from discontinued operations for the nine months were $494 million versus $59 million a year ago. Excluding items impacting comparability in both years, adjusted earnings from discontinued operations for the nine months were $32 million, or $0.08 per share, compared to $36 million, or $0.09 per share, a year ago.
     For the nine months of fiscal 2008, net sales were $6.283 billion, an increase of 7 percent. Sales growth for the nine months reflects the following factors:
Third Quarter Financial Details from Continuing Operations
 
Nine Months Financial Details from Continuing Operations
 
Summary of Fiscal 2008 Third Quarter Results by Segment
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $811 million compared to $810 million a year ago. The change in sales reflects the following factors:
     Total soup sales for the quarter decreased 3 percent compared to a 10 percent increase in the year-ago quarter, driven by the following:
 
     Highlights of this segment's other businesses include:
     Operating earnings were $172 million compared with $181 million in the prior-year period. The decrease in operating earnings was primarily due to cost inflation, partially offset by higher net selling prices and productivity gains.
 
     For the nine months, U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages sales increased 4 percent to $3.001 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     For the nine months, soup sales increased 1 percent compared to a 6 percent increase a year ago.
     Operating earnings were $767 million compared to $777 million in the year-ago period. The decline in operating earnings was driven by cost inflation and higher promotional and advertising spending, which was only partially offset by higher sales and productivity improvements.
Baking and Snacking
     Sales for Baking and Snacking were $502 million, an increase of 14 percent from a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
     Operating losses were $92 million compared with $45 million of operating earnings a year ago. The current quarter included $144 million of restructuring charges. The remaining increase in operating earnings was primarily driven by the favorable impact of currency and gains at Arnott's. Pepperidge Farm earnings were flat due to higher commodity costs.
     For the nine months, sales increased 11 percent to $1.525 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings were $48 million compared to $189 million in the year-ago period. The current period included $144 million of restructuring charges. Operating earnings in the prior period included a $23 million gain from the sale of the Pepperidge Farm facility. Excluding the gain from the sale and restructuring charges, the remaining increase in operating earnings was primarily due to the favorable impact of currency and strong performance in Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's biscuits, partially offset by a decline in the snack foods business.
 
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for International Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $400 million, an increase of 17 percent compared to a year ago. The change in sales reflects the following factors:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
     Operating earnings were $40 million compared to $43 million in the year-ago period. The current quarter included $6 million in restructuring charges. The remaining increase in operating earnings was driven by the favorable impact of currency and gains in Australia and Canada, partially offset by costs associated with the launch of new products in Russia and China.
     For the nine months, sales increased 14 percent to $1.248 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings increased to $152 million from $150 million in the year-ago period. The current period included $6 million of restructuring charges. The remaining increase in operating earnings was primarily due to the favorable impact of currency and
 
gains in the Australian soup business, partially offset by costs associated with the launch of new products in Russia and China.
North America Foodservice
     Sales were $167 million, an increase of 6 percent. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Excluding the favorable impact of currency, sales growth was driven by gains in canned and frozen soup, partially offset by a decline in refrigerated soup.
     Operating losses were $4 million compared to operating earnings of $13 million in the prior period. The current quarter included $22 million of restructuring charges. The remaining increase in operating earnings was primarily due to higher sales.
     For the nine months, sales increased 2 percent to $509 million. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings decreased to $40 million from $61 million in the year-ago period. The current period included $22 million of restructuring charges.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Information
     A reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2008 and 2007 financial information to the reported financial information is attached to this release and can also be found on the company's website at in the "Investor Center" section.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Conference Call
     The company will host a conference call to discuss these results on May 19, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-866-814-1913 and non-U.S. participants at 1-703-639-1357. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is "Campbell Soup" and the conference leader is Len Griehs. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at and can be accessed by clicking on the "Shareholder Event / Webcast" banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight May 26, 2008 at 1-888-266-2081 or 1-703-925-2533. The access code is 1236095.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Reporting Segments
     Campbell Soup Company earnings results are reported for the following segments:
     includes the following retail businesses: "Campbell's" brand condensed and ready-to-serve soups, "Swanson" broth and canned poultry businesses, "Prego" pasta sauce, "Pace" Mexican sauce, "Campbell's Chunky" chili, "Campbell's" canned pasta, gravies and beans, "Campbell's Supper Bakes" meal kits, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 V-Fusion" juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, and "Campbell's" tomato juice.
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     includes the following businesses: "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products in U.S. retail, "Arnott's" biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific, and "Arnott's" salty snacks in Australia.
Baking and Snacking
     includes the soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Canada, Europe, Mexico, Latin America, and the Asia Pacific region.
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
 
     includes the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
North America Foodservice
About Campbell Soup Company
     Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high-quality foods and simple meals, including soup, baked snacks, and healthy beverages. Founded in 1869, the company has a portfolio of market-leading brands, including "Campbell's," "Pepperidge Farm," "Arnott's," and "V8." For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website at
www.campbellsoup.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This release contains "forward-looking statements" that reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, pricing, share repurchase, new product introductions and innovation, cost-saving initiatives, quality improvements, and portfolio strategies, including divestitures, on sales, earnings, and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates that could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
 
In fiscal 2008, the company recorded a pre-tax charge of $172 ($100 after tax or $.26 per share) related to the previously announced initiatives to improve operational efficiency and long-term profitability, including selling certain salty snack food brands and assets in Australia, closing certain production facilities in Australia and Canada, and streamlining the company's management structure.
In fiscal 2008, the company recognized an after-tax gain of $467 ($1.23 per share) in earnings from discontinued operations from the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business.
In fiscal 2007, the company recorded a pre-tax non-cash benefit of $20 ($13 after tax or $.03 per share) from the reversal of legal reserves due to favorable results in litigation. The benefit is included in Administrative expenses.
In fiscal 2007, the company recorded a tax benefit of $22 resulting from the settlement of bilateral advance pricing agreements ("APA") among the company, the United States, and Canada related to royalties. In addition, the company reduced net interest expense by $4 ($3 after tax). The aggregate impact on earnings from continuing operations was $25, or $.06 per share.
The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal net earnings due to rounding.
 
In the third quarter of fiscal 2008, the company recorded a pre-tax charge of $172 ($100 after tax or $.26 per share) related to the previously announced initiatives to improve operational efficiency and long-term profitability, including selling certain salty snack food brands and assets in Australia, closing certain production facilities in Australia and Canada, and streamlining the company's management structure.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2008, the company recognized an after-tax gain of $462 ($1.20 per share) in earnings from discontinued operations from the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2008, the company recognized a $13 (or $.03 per share) tax benefit in continuing operations related to the favorable resolution of state tax contingency.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recorded a pre-tax non-cash benefit of $20 ($13 after tax or $.03 per share) from the reversal of legal reserves due to favorable results in litigation. The benefit is included in Administrative expenses.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recorded a tax benefit of $22 resulting from the settlement of bilateral advance pricing agreements ("APA") among the company, the United States, and Canada related to royalties. In addition, the company reduced net interest expense by $4 ($3 after tax). The aggregate impact on earnings from continuing operations was $25, or $0.06 per share.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of $23 ($14 after tax or $.04 per share) from the sale of an idle manufacturing facility. The gain is included in Other expenses / (income).
In fiscal 2007, the company recognized an after-tax gain of $23 (or $.06 per share) in earnings from discontinued operations from the sale of its businesses in the United Kingdom and Ireland.
 
In fiscal 2008, the company recorded a pre-tax charge of $172 ($100 after tax or $.26 per share) related to the previously announced initiatives to improve operational efficiency and long-term profitability, including selling certain salty snack food brands and assets in Australia, closing certain production facilities in Australia and Canada, and streamlining the company's management structure. The restructuring charge was recognized in the following segments: Baking and Snacking  $144, International Soup, Sauces and Beverages  $6, and North America Foodservice  $22.
In fiscal 2008, the company recognized an after-tax gain of $467 ($1.23 per share) in earnings from discontinued operations from the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business.
In fiscal 2007, the company recorded a pre-tax non-cash benefit of $20 ($13 after tax or $.03 per share) from the reversal of legal reserves due to favorable results in litigation. The benefit is included in Unallocated corporate expenses.
In fiscal 2007, the company recorded a tax benefit of $22 resulting from the settlement of bilateral advance pricing agreements ("APA") among the company, the United States, and Canada related to royalties. In addition, the company reduced net interest expense by $4 ($3 after tax). The aggregate impact on earnings from continuing operations was $25, or $.06 per share.
In connection with the sale of the Godiva business, the company revised its allocation methodology for corporate overhead expenses and restated historical results of all segments. In 2008, following the distribution agreement with Coca-Cola North America and Coca-Cola Enterprises, sales and earnings of certain beverage products are reported in U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages and International Soup, Sauces and Beverages, which were historically included in North America Foodservice. To enhance comparability, the company has restated the historical results of these segments.
The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal net earnings due to rounding.
 
In the third quarter of fiscal 2008, the company recorded a pre-tax charge of $172 ($100 after tax or $.26 per share) related to the previously announced initiatives to improve operational efficiency and long-term profitability, including selling certain salty snack food brands and assets in Australia, closing certain production facilities in Australia and Canada, and streamlining the company's management structure. The restructuring charge was recognized in the following segments: Baking and Snacking  $144, International Soup, Sauces and Beverages  $6, and North America Foodservice  $22.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2008, the company recognized an after-tax gain of $462 ($1.20 per share) in earnings from discontinued operations from the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2008, the company recognized a $13 (or $.03 per share) tax benefit in continuing operations related to the favorable resolution of state tax contingency.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recorded a pre-tax non-cash benefit of $20 ($13 after tax or $.03 per share) from the reversal of legal reserves due to favorable results in litigation. The benefit is included in Unallocated corporate expenses.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recorded a tax benefit of $22 resulting from the settlement of bilateral advance pricing agreements ("APA") among the company, the United States, and Canada related to royalties. In addition, the company reduced net interest expense by $4 ($3 after tax). The aggregate impact on earnings from continuing operations was $25, or $.06 per share.
 
In the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of $23 ($14 after tax or $.04 per share) from the sale of an idle manufacturing facility in the Baking and Snacking segment.
In fiscal 2007, the company recognized an after-tax gain of $23 (or $.06 per share) in earnings from discontinued operations from the sale of its businesses in the United Kingdom and Ireland.
In connection with the sale of the Godiva business, the company revised its allocation methodology for corporate overhead expenses and restated historical results of all segments. In 2008, following the distribution agreement with Coca-Cola North America and Coca-Cola Enterprises, sales and earnings of certain beverage products are reported in U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages and International Soup, Sauces and Beverages, which were historically included in North America Foodservice. To enhance comparability, the company has restated the historical results of these segments.
 
Certain reclassifications were made to prior year financial statements.
 
Campbell Soup Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. These non-GAAP financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures.
Net Debt
The company believes that net debt is a non-GAAP measure that provides additional meaningful comparisons between the company's financial position at April 27, 2008 and April 29, 2007, and also a useful perspective on the financial condition of the business. Interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents partially offsets interest expense on debt. Cash and cash equivalents are available to repay outstanding debt upon maturity.
The table below summarizes information on total debt and cash and cash equivalents:
Items Impacting Net Earnings
The company believes that financial information excluding certain transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business improves the comparability of year-to-year results. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand its earnings results if these transactions are excluded from the results.
The following items impacted net earnings:
 
 
     The tables below reconcile financial information, presented in accordance with GAAP, to financial information excluding certain transactions:
 
 
 
Reconciliation has been prepared reflecting the results of the Godiva Chocolatier business as discontinued operations.


