FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20080215085118.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 15, 2008, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended January 27, 2008, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     (NYSE: CPB) today reported net earnings for the quarter ended January 27, 2008 of $274 million or $0.71 per share compared to $285 million or $0.72 per share in the year-ago period.
CAMDEN, N.J., February 15, 2008Campbell Soup Company
     Excluding items impacting comparability, adjusted net earnings were $266 million compared to $270 million in the prior year's quarter and adjusted net earnings per share were $0.69 in the current quarter compared to $0.68 in the year-ago period.
     A detailed reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2008 and 2007 financial information to the reported information is attached to this release.
     As a result of the previously announced pending sale of the Godiva business to Yildiz Holding A.S., the results of the Godiva business are now reported as discontinued operations for all periods.
     Earnings from continuing operations for the quarter were $260 million compared to $257 million in the prior year. Earnings per share from continuing operations for the current quarter were $0.67 compared to earnings per share of $0.65 in the year-ago period.
 
     The current quarter's earnings from continuing operations included a $13 million tax benefit, or $0.03 per share, from the favorable resolution of a state tax matter. The prior period's earnings included a $14 million after-tax gain, or $0.04 per share, from the sale of an idle Pepperidge Farm facility. Excluding these items in both years, earnings from continuing operations in the second quarter were $247 million compared to $243 million in the year-ago period. Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.64 compared to $0.62 in the prior-year period, an increase of 3 percent.
     Earnings from discontinued operations for the quarter were $14 million compared to $28 million in the prior-year period. The current quarter included $5 million, or $0.01 per share, of costs related to the pending Godiva divestiture. The prior year's quarter included a $1 million increase to the gain related to the sale of the company's U.K. and Ireland businesses.
     The current quarter's net earnings per share of $0.71 included a $0.03 tax benefit from the resolution of the state tax matter and $0.01 of costs related to the pending Godiva divestiture. The prior period's net earnings per share of $0.72 included a $0.04 gain from the sale of the Pepperidge Farm facility. Excluding these items impacting comparability, adjusted net earnings per share in the second quarter were $0.69 compared to $0.68 a year ago.
     For the second quarter, sales increased 7 percent to $2.218 billion. Sales growth for the quarter reflects the following factors:
     Net earnings for the first half of fiscal 2008 were $544 million or $1.41 per share compared to $576 million or $1.44 per share in the year-ago period. Excluding items impacting comparability, adjusted net earnings were $536 million compared to $539 million in the year-ago period. Adjusted net earnings per share were $1.39 in the current period compared to $1.35 in the prior period, an increase of 3 percent.
     For the first half of fiscal 2008, earnings from continuing operations were $528 million versus $524 million a year earlier. Earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.36 compared to $1.31 a year ago.
 
     The current year included the $13 million gain from the resolution of the state tax matter, and the prior year included the $14 million after-tax gain from the sale of the Pepperidge Farm facility. Excluding these items in both years, earnings from continuing operations for the first six months were $515 million compared to $510 million and earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.33 compared to $1.28 a year ago, an increase of 4 percent.
     Earnings from discontinued operations for the six months were $16 million versus $52 million a year ago. The current year included $5 million after tax, or $0.01 per share, of costs related to the pending Godiva divestiture. The prior year included a $23 million after-tax, or $0.06 per share, gain from the sale of the company's U.K. and Ireland businesses.
     The current year's net earnings per share of $1.41 included a $0.03 tax benefit from the resolution of the state tax matter and $0.01 of costs related to the pending Godiva divestiture. The prior period's net earnings per share of $1.44 included a $0.04 gain from the sale of the Pepperidge Farm facility and a $0.06 gain from the sale of the U.K. and Ireland businesses. Excluding these items impacting comparability, adjusted net earnings per share in the six months were $1.39 compared to $1.35 a year ago, an increase of 3 percent.
     For the first half of fiscal 2008, net sales were $4.403 billion, an increase of 7 percent. Sales growth for the first half reflects the following factors:
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Through the first half of the year we have delivered strong sales growth across many of our businesses. Despite the difficult operating environment, we also have delivered solid earnings performance from continuing operations, while maintaining marketing support for our key brands.
     "In the quarter, our U.S. soup business rebounded from a slow start to the year, driven by the performance of ready-to-serve soups and broths. Across our soup portfolio,
 
lower sodium soups continued to perform well. Our beverage business continued its outstanding performance, with double-digit sales growth. Pepperidge Farm delivered strong sales and earnings growth in spite of significant commodity cost increases."
     Conant continued, "Like many companies in the food industry, Campbell has faced unprecedented commodity and energy cost increases this year. The significant increase in these costs negatively impacted the company's gross margin during the first six months of the year. We are taking the necessary steps to restore margin through a combination of price increases and ongoing productivity improvements."
     Conant concluded, "Once we complete the divestiture of the Godiva business, Campbell will be an even more focused food company and be better able to leverage our competitive advantages in our three strategic growth areas of simple meals, anchored by soup; baked snacks, anchored by biscuits; and healthful beverages, anchored by vegetable-based beverages. With this sharpened focus, Campbell will be well positioned for future growth."
     Consistent with its previous guidance, Campbell expects its fiscal 2008 adjusted net earnings per share to increase between 5 and 7 percent from the fiscal 2007 adjusted base of $1.95. Campbell will provide further guidance following the completion of the Godiva divestiture.
Second Quarter Financial Details from Continuing Operations
 
First Half Financial Details from Continuing Operations
Summary of Fiscal 2008 Second Quarter Results by Segment
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $1.093 billion, an increase of 6 percent compared to a year ago. The change in sales reflects the following factors:
 
     Highlights of this segment's other businesses include:
     Operating earnings were $286 million compared with $274 million in the prior-year period, an increase of 4 percent. The increase in operating earnings was primarily
 
due to higher sales and productivity gains, partially offset by cost inflation and higher advertising.
     For the first half, U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages sales increased 5 percent to $2.190 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     For the first half, soup sales increased 2 percent.
     Operating earnings were $595 million compared to $596 million in the year-ago period. The decline in operating earnings was primarily due to cost inflation and higher promotional spending, which were mostly offset by higher volume and productivity gains.
Baking and Snacking
     Sales for Baking and Snacking were $491 million, an increase of 8 percent from a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
     Operating earnings were $68 million compared with $77 million in the prior-year period. Operating earnings in the prior period included a $23 million gain from the sale of the Pepperidge Farm facility. Excluding the gain from the sale, the increase in operating earnings was driven by double-digit gains at Pepperidge Farm and the favorable impact of currency. Within Arnott's, gains in biscuits were offset by a decline in the snack foods business.
     For the first half, sales increased 9 percent to $1.023 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings were $140 million compared to $144 million in the year-ago period. Operating earnings in the prior period included a $23 million gain from the sale of the Pepperidge Farm facility. Excluding the gain from the sale, the increase in operating earnings was driven by gains in Pepperidge Farm, the favorable impact of currency, and gains in Arnott's.
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for International Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $458 million, an increase of 13 percent compared to a year ago. The change in sales reflects the following factors:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
     Operating earnings were $61 million compared to $58 million in the year-ago period. The increase in operating earnings was driven by the favorable impact of currency, which was partially offset by costs associated with the launch of products in Russia and China.
     For the first half, sales increased 13 percent to $848 million. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings increased to $112 million from $107 million in the year-ago period. The increase in operating earnings was driven by the favorable impact of currency, which was partially offset by costs associated with the launch of products in Russia and China.
North America Foodservice
     Previously, the results of the Godiva Chocolatier business worldwide and the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada were reported as Other in the company's segment analysis. As a result of the pending sale of the Godiva business, the results of the Godiva business are now reported as discontinued operations. The results of the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada are now reported as the North America Foodservice segment.
     Sales were $176 million, flat with the prior period. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
 
     The favorable impact of currency was offset by declines in refrigerated soup sales.
     Operating earnings were $20 million compared to $25 million in the prior period. The decline in operating earnings was driven by cost inflation and higher promotional activity, which were partially offset by productivity gains and higher selling prices.
     For the first half, sales were $342 million, flat with the prior period. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings decreased $4 million to $44 million. The decline in operating earnings was driven by cost inflation and higher promotional activity, which were partially offset by productivity gains and higher selling prices.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
     A reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2008 and 2007 financial information to the reported financial information is attached to this release and can also be found on the company's website at in the "Investor Center" section.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Conference Call
     The company will host a conference call to discuss these results on February 15, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-866-837-9789 and non-U.S. participants at 1-703-639-1425. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is "Campbell Soup" and the conference leader is Len Griehs. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at and can be accessed by clicking on the "Shareholder Event / Webcast" banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight February 22, 2008 at 1-888-266-2081 or 1-703-925-2533. The access code is 1195937.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
 
Reporting Segments
     Campbell Soup Company earnings results are reported for the following segments:
     includes the following retail businesses: "Campbell's" brand condensed and ready-to-serve soups, "Swanson" broth and canned poultry businesses, "Prego" pasta sauce, "Pace" Mexican sauce, "Campbell's Chunky" chili, "Campbell's" canned pasta, gravies and beans, "Campbell's Supper Bakes" meal kits, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 V-Fusion" juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, and "Campbell's" tomato juice.
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     includes the following businesses: "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products in U.S. retail, "Arnott's" biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific, and "Arnott's" salty snacks in Australia.
Baking and Snacking
     includes the soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Canada, Europe, Mexico, Latin America, and the Asia Pacific region.
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     includes the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
North America Foodservice
About Campbell Soup Company
Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high quality foods and simple meals, including soup, baked snacks, vegetable-based beverages, and premium chocolate products. Founded in 1869, the company has a portfolio of market-leading brands, including "Campbell's," "Pepperidge Farm," "Arnott's," "V8," and "Godiva." For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website at .
www.campbellsoup.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" that reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, pricing, share repurchase, new product introductions and innovation, cost-saving initiatives, quality improvements, and portfolio
 
strategies, including divestitures, on sales, earnings, and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates that could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
 
In fiscal 2007, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of $23 ($14 after tax or $.04 per share) from the sale of an idle manufacturing facility. The gain is included in Other expenses / (income).
In fiscal 2008, the company recognized a $13 (or $.03 per share) tax benefit in continuing operations related to the favorable resolution of a state tax contingency.
 
In fiscal 2007, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of $23 ($14 after tax or $.04 per share) from the sale of an idle manufacturing facility. The gain is included in Other expenses / (income).
In fiscal 2008, the company recognized a $13 (or $.03 per share) tax benefit in continuing operations related to the favorable resolution of a state tax contingency.
The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal net earnings due to rounding.
 
In fiscal 2007, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of $23 ($14 after tax or $.04 per share) from the sale of an idle manufacturing facility in the Baking and Snacking segment.
In fiscal 2008, the company recognized a $13 (or $.03 per share) tax benefit in continuing operations related to the favorable resolution of a state tax contingency.
In connection with the pending sale of the Godiva business, the company revised its allocation methodology for corporate overhead expenses and restated historical results of all segments. In 2008, following the distribution agreement with Coca-Cola North America and Coca-Cola Enterprises, sales and earnings of certain beverage products are reported in U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages and International Soup, Sauces and Beverages, which were historically included in North America Foodservice. To enhance comparability, the company has restated the historical results of these segments.
 
In fiscal 2007, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of $23 ($14 after tax or $.04 per share) from the sale of an idle manufacturing facility in the Baking and Snacking segment.
In fiscal 2008, the company recognized a $13 (or $.03 per share) tax benefit in continuing operations related to the favorable resolution of a state tax contingency.
In connection with the pending sale of the Godiva business, the company revised its allocation methodology for corporate overhead expenses and restated historical results of all segments. In 2008, following the distribution agreement with Coca-Cola North America and Coca-Cola Enterprises, sales and earnings of certain beverage products are reported in U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages and International Soup, Sauces and Beverages, which were historically included in North America Foodservice. To enhance comparability, the company has restated the historical results of these segments.
The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal net earnings due to rounding.
 
Certain reclassifications were made to prior year financial statements.
 
Campbell Soup Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. These non-GAAP financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures.
Net Debt
The company believes that net debt is a non-GAAP measure that provides additional meaningful comparisons between the company's financial position at January 27, 2008 and January 28, 2007, and also a useful perspective on the financial condition of the business. Interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents partially offsets interest expense on debt. Cash and cash equivalents are available to repay outstanding debt upon maturity.
The table below summarizes information on total debt and cash and cash equivalents:
Items Impacting Net Earnings
The company believes that financial information excluding certain transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business improves the comparability of year-to-year results. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand its earnings results if these transactions are excluded from the results.
The following items impacted net earnings:
 
The tables below reconcile financial information, presented in accordance with GAAP, to financial information excluding certain transactions:
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation has been prepared reflecting the results of the Godiva Chocolatier business as discontinued operations.


