FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20080630083842.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure
On June 30, 2008, Campbell Soup Company ("Campbell") issued a press release announcing (i) that Campbell's Board of Directors has authorized the purchase of up to $1.2 billion of Campbell stock under a new share repurchase program that will be in effect through the end of Campbell's 2011 fiscal year, and (ii) expected adjusted net earnings per share growth for fiscal 2008. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 8.01  Other Events
On June 30, 2008, Campbell announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the purchase of up to $1.2 billion of Campbell stock on the open market or through privately negotiated transactions. The program will be in place through the end of Campbell's 2011 fiscal year. This new share repurchase program is in addition to Campbell's ongoing practice of buying back shares sufficient to offset shares issued under incentive compensation plans. Campbell expects to complete in fiscal year 2008 the previously announced share repurchase program utilizing approximately $600 million of the net proceeds from the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 30, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized a new share repurchase program. Under the new program, Campbell is authorized to purchase up to $1.2 billion of its outstanding shares in open market and privately negotiated transactions. The program will be in place through the end of Campbell's 2011 fiscal year.
CAMDEN, N.J., June 30, 2008Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
     This new share repurchase program is in addition to Campbell's ongoing practice of buying back shares sufficient to offset shares issued under incentive compensation plans. Campbell expects to complete in fiscal year 2008 the share repurchase program utilizing approximately $600 million of the net proceeds from the sale of the Godiva business.
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "This $1.2 billion share repurchase program reflects the ongoing confidence we have in Campbell's long-term growth potential and is a continuation of our commitment to enhance shareowner value."
     Additionally, Campbell updated its fiscal 2008 full-year guidance. The company now expects adjusted net earnings per share growth for its fiscal year ending August 3, 2008 to be at the upper end of the 5 to 7 percent range from the fiscal 2007 adjusted base of $1.95.
 
     Campbell will host a meeting with investors tomorrow, July 1, 2008, at its headquarters in Camden, New Jersey. The presentation can be accessed via a Web cast at www.campbellsoupcompany.com beginning at 2:30 p.m. Eastern Time.
About Campbell Soup Company
Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high-quality foods and simple meals, including soup, baked snacks, and healthy beverages. Founded in 1869, the company has a portfolio of market-leading brands, including "Campbell's," "Pepperidge Farm," "Arnott's," and "V8." For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website at www.campbellsoup.com.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
A reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2007 financial information to the reported financial information is attached to this release.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" that reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including share repurchases, on cash flows and earnings. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates that could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
 
Campbell Soup Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. These non-GAAP financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures.
Items Impacting Net Earnings
The company believes that financial information excluding certain transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business improves the comparability of year-to-year results. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand its earnings results if these transactions are excluded from the results.
The following items impacted net earnings:
 
The table below reconciles financial information, presented in accordance with GAAP, to financial information excluding certain transactions:
Reconciliation has been prepared reflecting the results of the Godiva Chocolatier business as discontinued operations.


