FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20080318172037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.01
Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
On March 18, 2008, Campbell Investment Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Campbell Soup Company ("Campbell"), completed the sale of its Godiva Chocolatier business to Yildiz Holdings A.S. ("Yildiz") for $850 million pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement dated December 20, 2007. Yildiz, or an affiliate thereof, acquired all of the entities comprising the Godiva Chocolatier business worldwide. The purchase price is subject to certain post-closing adjustments.
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure
On March 18, 2008, Campbell issued a press release announcing (i) the completion of the sale of its Godiva Chocolatier business, (ii) the use of approximately $600 million of the net proceeds from the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business, and (iii) sales, adjusted earnings before interest and taxes and adjusted earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2008. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 8.01  Other Events
On March 18, 2008, Campbell announced that its Board of Directors has authorized using approximately $600 million of the net proceeds of the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business to purchase Campbell stock in open market transactions. Campbell expects these purchases to be substantially completed in fiscal 2008. This share repurchase authority is in addition to Campbell's ongoing practice of buying back shares sufficient to offset shares issued under incentive compensation plans.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today announced it has completed the sale of its Godiva Chocolatier business to Yildiz Holding A.S. for $850 million. Campbell announced the agreement of sale on December 20, 2007.
CAMDEN, N.J. March 18, 2008Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
     Campbell also announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized using approximately $600 million of the net proceeds of the sale of Godiva to purchase company stock in open market transactions. The company expects these purchases to be substantially completed in fiscal 2008. This share repurchase authority is in addition to Campbell's ongoing practice of buying back shares sufficient to offset shares issued under incentive compensation plans.
     Following the divestiture of the Godiva business, Campbell updated its fiscal 2008 sales and earnings guidance. For fiscal 2008, the company expects its continuing operations to deliver sales growth in excess of its long-term target range of between 3 and 4 percent, due in part to the favorable impact of currency and a 53 week of sales in the fiscal year. Campbell expects to deliver EBIT growth from continuing operations between 5 and 7 percent from the fiscal 2007 adjusted base of $1.200 billion. Excluding items impacting comparability, the company expects adjusted net earnings per share growth between 5 and 7 percent from the fiscal 2007 adjusted base of $1.95, which is unchanged from previous guidance. While Campbell expects the divestiture will be accretive to earnings per share in fiscal 2008, the company intends to make additional investments in brand building and cost reduction initiatives.
rd
 
     Detailed financial information outlining the historical pro forma impact of the transaction and the anticipated use of proceeds is being made available through a public filing.
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "This latest share repurchase program represents our ongoing confidence in our more focused portfolio and is a continuation of our commitment to deliver strong investor returns."
     Godiva has annual sales of approximately $500 million.
About Campbell Soup Company
Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high-quality foods and simple meals, including soup, baked snacks, and healthy beverages. Founded in 1869, the company has a portfolio of market-leading brands, including "Campbell's," "Pepperidge Farm," "Arnott's," and "V8." For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website at .
www.campbellsoup.com
Non-GAAP Financial Information
A reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2007 financial information to the reported financial information is attached to this release.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" that reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, share repurchase, cost-saving initiatives, quality improvements, and portfolio strategies, including divestitures, on sales, earnings, and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates that could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
 
Campbell Soup Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. These non-GAAP financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures.
Items Impacting Net Earnings
The company believes that financial information excluding certain transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business improves the comparability of year-to-year results. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand its earnings results if these transactions are excluded from the results.
The following items impacted net earnings:
Continuing Operations
Discontinued Operations
 
The table below reconciles financial information, presented in accordance with GAAP, to financial information excluding certain transactions:
Reconciliation has been prepared reflecting the results of the Godiva Chocolatier business as discontinued operations.

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements present financial information to give effect to the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business to be accounted for in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 144, . The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of earnings present the consolidated results of continuing operations of the company, assuming the sale occurred as of August 2, 2004. The impact of the anticipated use of net proceeds to repurchase shares is included in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of earnings for the six months ended January 27, 2008 and the year ended July 29, 2007. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of January 27, 2008 presents the consolidated financial position of the company, assuming the sale occurred on that date. Beginning with the second quarter ended January 27, 2008, the company reported the results of the Godiva Chocolatier business as discontinued operations. As of January 27, 2008, the assets and liabilities of the business were classified as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations held for sale. The unaudited financial information is subject to the assumptions and adjustments in the notes accompanying the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements include specific assumptions and adjustments related to the sale of the businesses. The adjustments are based upon presently available information and assumptions that management believes are reasonable under the circumstances as of the date of this filing. However, actual adjustments may differ materially from the information presented. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements, including notes thereto, should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements of the company included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 29, 2007 and the unaudited financial statements filed in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three and six months ended January 27, 2008.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information presented is for informational purposes only. It is not intended to represent or be indicative of the consolidated results of operations or financial position that would have occurred had the sale been completed as of the dates presented nor is it intended to be indicative of future results of operations or financial position.
 
See Notes to Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
See Notes to Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
See Notes to Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
See Notes to Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
See Notes to Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements give effect to the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business to be accounted for as a discontinued operation. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of earnings are presented as if the sale occurred as of August 2, 2004. The anticipated nonrecurring after-tax gain on the sale is not reflected in the pro forma condensed consolidated statements of earnings. The impact of the anticipated use of net proceeds to repurchase shares is included in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of earnings for the six months ended January 27, 2008 and the year ended July 29, 2007. The unaudited pro forma condensed balance sheet is presented as if the sale occurred on January 27, 2008 and is based on the historical balance sheet as of that date. The nonrecurring after-tax gain is reflected in the pro forma balance sheet.


