FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20080911084558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
   
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
   
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
   
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-(c))
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On September 11, 2008, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter and year ended August 3, 2008, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today reported net earnings for the quarter ended August 3, 2008 of $89 million, or $0.24 per share, compared to $61 million, or $0.16 per share, in the year-ago period. The current quarter's reported net earnings included charges associated with previously announced restructuring initiatives. Excluding all items impacting comparability in both periods, adjusted net earnings were $96 million compared to $53 million in the prior year's quarter and adjusted net earnings per share were $0.26 in the current quarter compared to $0.14 in the year-ago quarter, an increase of 86 percent.
CAMDEN, N.J., September 11, 2008Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
     A detailed reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2008 and 2007 financial information to the reported information is attached to this release.
     In March 2008, Campbell completed the sale of the Godiva business, the results of which are reported as discontinued operations for all periods. Additionally, in the third and fourth quarters, Campbell recorded restructuring charges and costs related to previously announced initiatives to improve operational efficiency and enhance long-term profitability, including the sale of certain salty snack foods brands and assets in Australia, the closure of production facilities in Australia and Canada, and the streamlining of its management structure.
 
     The current and prior quarter's net earnings included items that impacted comparability. These items are summarized below:
     In the fourth quarter, earnings from continuing operations were $89 million compared to $58 million in the prior year. Earnings per share from continuing operations for the current quarter were $0.24 compared to $0.15 in the year-ago period. Excluding items impacting comparability, adjusted earnings from continuing operations in the fourth quarter were $96 million compared to $58 million in the year-ago period. Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.26 compared to $0.15 in the prior-year period, an increase of 73 percent.
     In the prior period, earnings from discontinued operations were $3 million, or $0.01 per share. Excluding items impacting comparability, the adjusted loss from discontinued operations was $5 million, or $0.01 per share, reflecting the seasonality of the Godiva business.
     For the fourth quarter, sales increased 13 percent to $1.715 billion. Sales growth for the quarter reflects the following factors:
 
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We delivered a very strong quarter, including in our U.S. soup business, to complete a challenging year in which we faced unprecedented cost inflation. For the sixth consecutive year, we met or exceeded our financial guidance. Our more focused portfolio strategy is paying off, as we grew sales and earnings for the year in each of our three core categoriessimple meals, baked snacks and healthy beverages.
     "In U.S. soup, our focus on wellness is working. Our lower sodium soup portfolio continued its strong performance, and we are well positioned to build on this success in fiscal year 2009, especially with the launch of Campbell's Select Harvest' ready-to-serve soups. In addition, our soup businesses in Canada and Australia posted good results for the year."
     Conant continued, "Looking at the rest of our portfolio, Pepperidge Farm once again delivered outstanding performance, and Arnott's also had a strong year in its core biscuit business. In healthy beverages, our V8' brand, led by V8 V-Fusion,' reported double-digit sales growth for the year. In the emerging markets of Russia and China, we are encouraged by our progress in our first year in the marketplace, and we are optimistic about our expansion plans in both geographies.
     "Looking ahead to fiscal 2009, we have strong plans in place across our portfolio to win with consumers in our core categories."
     Conant concluded, "In fiscal 2009, we expect our continuing operations, excluding the negative impact of one less week in the fiscal year and recent divestitures, to deliver sales growth in excess of our long-term target range of between 3 and 4 percent. We expect to deliver EBIT growth, excluding items impacting comparability, slightly below our long-term target growth rate of between 5 and 6 percent, reflecting the impact of one less week in the fiscal year, higher marketing spending behind increased innovation in the U.S. and increased investment spending in Russia and China.
 
Consistent with our long-term target growth rate, we expect to deliver adjusted net earnings per share growth between 5 and 7 percent from the fiscal 2008 adjusted base of $2.09."
     The current and prior year's net earnings included items that impacted comparability. These items are summarized below:
 
     Net earnings for fiscal 2008 were $1.165 billion, or $3.06 per share, compared to $854 million, or $2.16 per share, in the year-ago period.
 
     Excluding items impacting comparability, adjusted net earnings were $797 million compared to $771 million in the year-ago period. Adjusted net earnings per share were $2.09 in the current period compared to $1.95 in the prior period, an increase of 7 percent.
     For fiscal 2008, earnings from continuing operations were $671 million versus $792 million a year earlier. Earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.76 compared to $2.00 a year ago.
     Excluding the above-referenced items in both years, adjusted earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2008 were $765 million compared to $740 million a year ago and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.01 compared to $1.87 a year ago, an increase of 7 percent.
     Earnings from discontinued operations for the year were $494 million, or $1.30 per share, versus $62 million, or $0.16 per share, a year ago. Excluding items impacting comparability in both years, adjusted earnings from discontinued operations for the year were $32 million, or $0.08 per share, compared to $31 million, or $0.08 per share, a year ago.
     For fiscal 2008, net sales were $7.998 billion, an increase of 8 percent. Sales growth for the year reflects the following factors:
Full Year Financial Details from Continuing Operations
 
Summary of Fiscal 2008 Fourth Quarter Results by Segment
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $673 million compared to $601 million a year ago, an increase of 12 percent. The change in sales reflects the following factors:
     On a reported basis, U.S. soup sales for the quarter increased 15 percent. Sales of condensed soup increased 14 percent, sales of ready-to-serve soup increased 13 percent and broth sales increased 21 percent.
     Excluding the benefit of the 53 week, U.S. soup sales increased 6 percent, driven by the following:
rd
 
     Further details of the sales results of this segment's other businesses include:
     Operating earnings were $124 million compared to $84 million in the prior-year period. The increase in operating earnings was primarily due to higher pricing, productivity improvements, lower marketing expenses and the benefit of the 53 week, partially offset by the impact of cost inflation.
rd
     For fiscal 2008, U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages sales increased 5 percent to $3.674 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     For the year, on a reported basis, U.S. soup sales increased 2 percent. Excluding the benefit of the 53 week, U.S. soup sales increased 1 percent:
rd
 
     Further details of the sales results of this segment's other businesses include:
     Operating earnings were $891 million compared to $861 million in the year-ago period. The increase in operating earnings was primarily due to higher sales volumes, productivity improvements and higher price realization, partially offset by the impact of cost inflation.
Baking and Snacking
     Sales for Baking and Snacking were $533 million, an increase of 13 percent from a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
     Operating earnings increased to $72 million compared with $49 million a year ago. The increase in operating earnings was due to higher earnings in Arnott's, the benefit of the 53 week and the favorable impact of currency.
rd
     For fiscal 2008, sales increased 11 percent to $2.058 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
 
     Operating earnings were $120 million compared to $238 million in the year-ago period. The current period included $144 million of restructuring charges. Operating earnings in the prior period included a $23 million gain from the sale of the Pepperidge Farm facility. Excluding the gain from the sale and restructuring charges, the increase in operating earnings was primarily due to earnings growth in Arnott's biscuits, the favorable impact of currency and gains in Pepperidge Farm.
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for International Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $362 million, an increase of 17 percent compared to a year ago. The change in sales reflects the following factors:
     Excluding the impact of the 53 week, further details of sales results include the following:
rd
     Operating earnings were $27 million compared to $18 million in the year-ago period. The current quarter included $3 million in restructuring charges. Excluding the restructuring charges, the increase in operating earnings was driven by growth in the Canadian business, the favorable impact of currency and the benefit of the 53 week,
rd
 
partially offset by impairment charges on certain trademarks and costs associated with the launch of new products in Russia and China.
     For fiscal 2008, sales increased 15 percent to $1.610 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Excluding the impact of the 53 week, further details of sales results include the following:
rd
     Operating earnings increased to $179 million from $168 million in the year-ago period. The current period included $9 million of restructuring charges. Excluding the restructuring charges, the increase in operating earnings was primarily due to the favorable impact of currency and growth in the Canadian and Australian soup businesses, partially offset by costs associated with the launch of new products in Russia and China and impairment charges on certain trademarks.
North America Foodservice
     Sales were $147 million, an increase of 7 percent. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
 
     Excluding the impact of the 53 week, sales declined. Sales declines in refrigerated soup were partially offset by gains in frozen and canned soups.
rd
     Operating earnings were $0 compared to operating earnings of $17 million in the prior period. The current quarter included $7 million of costs related to improving operational efficiency and long-term profitability. The prior year included a $10 million gain related to a settlement in lieu of condemnation of a refrigerated soup facility in Washington State.
     For fiscal 2008, sales increased 3 percent to $656 million. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings decreased to $40 million from $78 million in the year-ago period. The current year included $29 million of restructuring charges and related costs to improve operational efficiency and long-term profitability. The prior year included a $10 million gain related to a settlement in lieu of condemnation of a refrigerated soup facility in Washington State, partially offset by relocation and start-up costs associated with the replacement facility. The current year's earnings also were adversely impacted by cost inflation, partially offset by higher selling prices and productivity gains.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Information
     A reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2008 and 2007 financial information to the reported financial information is attached to this release and can also be found on the company's website at in the "Investor Center" section.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Conference Call
     The company will host a conference call to discuss these results on September 11, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-866-835-8825 and non-U.S. participants at 1-703-639-1407. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is "Campbell Soup" and the conference leader is Len Griehs. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at and can be accessed by clicking on the "Shareholder Event / Webcast" banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight September 18, 2008 at 1-888-266-2081 or 1-703-925-2533. The access code is 1276968.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Reporting Segments
     Campbell Soup Company earnings results are reported for the following segments:
     includes the following retail businesses: "Campbell's" brand condensed and ready-to-serve soups, "Swanson" broth and canned poultry businesses, "Prego" pasta sauce, "Pace" Mexican sauce, "Campbell's Chunky" chili, "Campbell's" canned pasta, gravies and beans, "Campbell's Supper Bakes" meal kits, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 V-Fusion" juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, and "Campbell's" tomato juice.
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     includes the following businesses: "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products in U.S. retail, "Arnott's" biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific, and "Arnott's" salty snacks in Australia.
Baking and Snacking
     includes the soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Canada, Europe, Mexico, Latin America, and the Asia Pacific region.
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
 
     includes the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
North America Foodservice
About Campbell Soup Company
Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high-quality foods and simple meals, including soup, baked snacks, and healthy beverages. Founded in 1869, the company has a portfolio of market-leading brands, including "Campbell's," "Pepperidge Farm," "Arnott's," and "V8." For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website at .
www.campbellsoup.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" that reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, pricing, share repurchase, new product introductions and innovation, cost-saving initiatives, quality improvements, and portfolio strategies, including divestitures, on sales, earnings, and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates that could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
 
In fiscal 2008, the company recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $3 and expenses in Cost of products sold of $7 (aggregate impact of $7 after tax or $.02 per share) related to the previously announced initiatives to improve operational efficiency and long-term profitability, including selling certain salty snack food brands and assets in Australia, closing certain production facilities in Australia and Canada, and streamlining the company's management structure.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the company completed the sale of its businesses in the United Kingdom and Ireland. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, a $1 after-tax gain from the sale was recognized. Additionally, a $7 tax benefit ($0.02 per share) was recognized from the favorable resolution of tax audits in the United Kingdom. The aggregate impact on earnings from discontinued operations was $8 ($.02 per share) in the fourth quarter.
The period ended August 3, 2008 had 14 weeks. The period ended July 29, 2007 had 13 weeks.
 
In fiscal 2008, the company recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $175 and $7 of expenses in Cost of products sold (aggregate impact of $107 after tax or $.28 per share) related to the previously announced initiatives to improve operational efficiency and long-term profitability, including selling certain salty snack food brands and assets in Australia, closing certain production facilities in Australia and Canada, and streamlining the company's management structure.
In fiscal 2008, the company recognized an after-tax gain of $462 ($1.21 per share) in earnings from discontinued operations from the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2008, the company recognized a $13 ($.03 per share) tax benefit in continuing operations related to the favorable resolution of state tax contingency.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recorded a pre-tax non-cash benefit of $20 ($13 after tax or $.03 per share) from the reversal of legal reserves due to favorable results in litigation. The benefit is included in Administrative expenses.
 
In the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recorded a tax benefit of $22 resulting from the settlement of bilateral advance pricing agreements ("APA") among the company, the United States, and Canada related to royalties. In addition, the company reduced net interest expense by $4 ($3 after tax). The aggregate impact on earnings from continuing operations was $25, or $0.06 per share.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of $23 ($14 after tax or $.04 per share) from the sale of an idle manufacturing facility. The gain is included in Other expenses / (income).
In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the company completed the sale of its businesses in the United Kingdom and Ireland. The total after-tax gain recognized on the sale in 2007 in earnings from discontinued operations was $24 ($0.06 per share). Of this amount, $1 was recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, a $7 tax benefit ($0.02 per share) was recognized from the favorable resolution of tax audits in the United Kingdom. The aggregate impact on earnings from discontinued operations was $8 ($.02 per share) in the fourth quarter and $31 ($.08 per share) for fiscal 2007.
Fiscal 2008 had 53 weeks. Fiscal 2007 had 52 weeks.
 
In connection with the sale of the Godiva business, the company revised its allocation methodology for corporate overhead expenses and restated historical results of all segments. In 2008, following the distribution agreement with The Coca-Cola Company and Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., sales and earnings of certain beverage products are reported in U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages and International Soup, Sauces and Beverages, which were historically included in North America Foodservice. To enhance comparability, the company has restated the historical results of these segments.
In fiscal 2008, the company recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $3 and expenses in Cost of products sold of $7 (aggregate impact of $7 after tax or $.02 per share) related to the previously announced initiatives to improve operational efficiency and long-term profitability, including selling certain salty snack food brands and assets in Australia, closing certain production facilities in Australia and Canada, and streamlining the company's management structure. The restructuring charge was recognized in the following segments: International Soup, Sauces and Beverages  $3, and North America Foodservice  $7.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the company completed the sale of its businesses in the United Kingdom and Ireland. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, a $1 after-tax gain from the sale was recognized. Additionally, a $7 tax benefit ($0.02 per share) was recognized from the favorable resolution of tax audits in the United Kingdom. The aggregate impact on earnings from discontinued operations was $8 ($.02 per share) in the fourth quarter.
The period ended August 3, 2008 had 14 weeks. The period ended July 29, 2007 had 13 weeks.
 
In connection with the sale of the Godiva business, the company revised its allocation methodology for corporate overhead expenses and restated historical results of all segments. In 2008, following the distribution agreement with The Coca-Cola Company and Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., sales and earnings of certain beverage products are reported in U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages and International Soup, Sauces and Beverages, which were historically included in North America Foodservice. To enhance comparability, the company has restated the historical results of these segments.
In fiscal 2008, the company recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $175 and $7 of expenses in Cost of products sold (aggregate impact of $107 after tax or $.28 per share) related to the previously announced initiatives to improve operational efficiency and long-term profitability, including selling certain salty snack food brands and assets in Australia, closing certain production facilities in Australia and Canada, and streamlining the company's management structure. The restructuring charge was recognized in the following segments: Baking and Snacking  $144, International Soup, Sauces and Beverages  $9, and North America Foodservice  $29.
In fiscal 2008, the company recognized an after-tax gain of $462 ($1.21 per share) in earnings from discontinued operations from the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2008, the company recognized a $13 (or $.03 per share) tax benefit in continuing operations related to the favorable resolution of state tax contingency.
 
In the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recorded a pre-tax non-cash benefit of $20 ($13 after tax or $.03 per share) from the reversal of legal reserves due to favorable results in litigation. The benefit is included in Unallocated corporate expenses.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recorded a tax benefit of $22 resulting from the settlement of bilateral advance pricing agreements ("APA") among the company, the United States, and Canada related to royalties. In addition, the company reduced net interest expense by $4 ($3 after tax). The aggregate impact on earnings from continuing operations was $25, or $.06 per share.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of $23 ($14 after tax or $.04 per share) from the sale of an idle manufacturing facility in the Baking and Snacking segment.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the company completed the sale of its businesses in the United Kingdom and Ireland. The total after-tax gain recognized on the sale in 2007 in earnings from discontinued operations was $24 ($0.06 per share). Of this amount, $1 was recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, a $7 tax benefit ($0.02 per share) was recognized from the favorable resolution of tax audits in the United Kingdom. The aggregate impact on earnings from discontinued operations was $8 ($.02 per share) in the fourth quarter and $31 ($.08 per share) for fiscal 2007.
Fiscal 2008 had 53 weeks. Fiscal 2007 had 52 weeks.
 
 
Campbell Soup Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. These non-GAAP financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures.
Net Debt
The company believes that net debt is a non-GAAP measure that provides additional meaningful comparisons between the company's financial position at August 3, 2008 and July 29, 2007, and also a useful perspective on the financial condition of the business. Interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents partially offsets interest expense on debt. Cash and cash equivalents are available to repay outstanding debt upon maturity.
The table below summarizes information on total debt and cash and cash equivalents:
Items Impacting Net Earnings
The company believes that financial information excluding certain transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business improves the comparability of year-to-year results. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand its earnings results if these transactions are excluded from the results.
The following items impacted net earnings:
 
 
The tables below reconcile financial information, presented in accordance with GAAP, to financial information excluding certain transactions:
 
 
 


