FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20081008152639.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On October 2, 2008, the Board of Directors of Campbell Soup Company approved an amendment to Article II, Section 1 of the company's By-Laws, effective November 20, 2008, to change the size of the Board from 15 to 14 directors. A copy of the By-Laws, as amended, is filed as Exhibit 3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Due to a technical error one subparagraph was misstated in the text of the amended and restated Campbell Soup Company 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan dated September 25, 2008 which was filed as Exhibit 10 (b) to the 2008 Form 10-K filed on October 1, 2008. Subparagraph 4.3 (c) should read as follows:
"(c) The Section 4.3 Limit shall be increased by shares of Campbell Stock that are subject to an Award which for any reason is cancelled (excluding shares subject to an Option cancelled upon the exercise of a related SAR) or terminated without having been exercised or paid."
A copy of the amended and restated Campbell Soup Company 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan dated September 25, 2008 is filed as Exhibit 10 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3
 
     Section 1. The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation in New Jersey, or at such other place, within or without New Jersey, as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, and on a date and at such time as may be fixed by the Board of Directors, for the purpose of electing directors of the Corporation, and for the transaction of such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting
     Section 2. Special meetings of the stockholders shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation in New Jersey, or at such other place, within or without New Jersey, as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, upon the call of the Chairman of the Board or of the President, or upon the call of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors, and shall be called upon the written request of stockholders of record holding a majority of the capital stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at such meeting.
     Section 3. Notice of the time and place of every meeting of stockholders shall be delivered personally or mailed at least ten but not more than sixty calendar days before the meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
     Section 4. The holders of record of a majority of the shares of the capital stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders. If there be no such quorum present, the holders of a majority of such shares so present or represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until such quorum shall have been obtained, when any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as first convened, had there been a quorum. Once a quorum is established, the stockholders present in person or by proxy may continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
     Section 5. The Board of Directors shall in advance of each meeting of stockholders appoint one or more inspectors of election, to act unless the performance of the inspector's function shall be unanimously waived by the stockholders present in person or represented by proxy at such meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall first take and subscribe an
 
oath or affirmation to execute the duties of inspector as prescribed by law at such meeting with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability. The inspector or inspectors shall take charge of the polls and shall make a certificate of the results of the vote taken. No director or candidate for the office of director shall be appointed as such inspector.
     Section 6. All meetings of the stockholders shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, or if he shall not be present, by the Vice Chairman of the Board. If neither the Chairman of the Board nor the Vice Chairman of the Board shall be present, such meeting shall be presided over by the President. If none of the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board and the President shall be present, such meeting shall be presided over by a Vice President, or if none shall be present, then by a Chairman to be elected by the holders of a majority of the shares present or represented at the meeting.
     The Secretary of the Corporation, or if he is not present, an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, if present, shall act as secretary of the meeting. If neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present, then the Chairman shall appoint a Secretary of the meeting.
     Section 7. The Board of Directors shall fix in advance a date, not exceeding sixty nor less than ten calendar days preceding the date of any meeting of the stockholders or the date for the payment of any dividend, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of stock shall go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at any such meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend, or any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of stock, and in such case only stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to such notice of and to vote at such meeting, or to receive payment of such dividend, or allotment of rights, or exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the Corporation after any such record date fixed as aforesaid.
     Section 1. The business and property of the Corporation shall be managed and controlled by a board of fourteen directors. This number may be changed from time to time by amendment of these By-Laws, but the term of office of no director shall be shortened after his or her election by reduction in the number of directors.
     Upon election each director shall be the holder of at least two hundred shares of the Corporation's capital stock. Within one year of election, each director shall be the holder of at least two thousand shares of capital stock and within three years of election shall be the holder of at least six thousand shares of capital stock. In the event the number of shares of capital stock is increased at any time after February 11, 1997, by a stock split, stock dividend, or by any other extraordinary distribution of shares, the above share ownership requirements shall be proportionately adjusted. The director, upon ceasing to hold the required number of shares, shall cease to be a director.
 
     The directors shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until their successors are elected and shall have qualified.
     Section 2. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such times and at such places as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time upon call of the Chairman of the Board or of the Vice Chairman of the Board or of the President or of three directors. Oral, telegraphic or written notice of the time and place of a special meeting shall be duly served on, or given or sent or mailed to, each director not less than two calendar days before the meeting. An organizational meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held, of which no notice shall be necessary, as soon as convenient after the annual meeting of the stockholders. Notice need not be given of regular meetings of the Board of Directors held at the times fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors. Meetings may be held at any time without notice if all of the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in writing.
     Section 3. Six members of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall have been obtained, when any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as first convened, had there been a quorum.
     Section 4. Any vacancy occurring among the directors may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining members of the Board of Directors at the time in office; provided that in case of an increase in the number of directors pursuant to an amendment to these By-Laws made by the stockholders, the stockholders may fill the vacancy or vacancies so created at the meeting at which such amendment is effected or may authorize the Board of Directors to fill such vacancy or vacancies.
     Section 5. The Board of Directors, by an affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors at the time in office, may appoint an Executive Committee to consist of such directors as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. The Executive Committee shall have and may exercise, when the Board of Directors is not in session, all of the powers vested in the Board of Directors, except as otherwise provided by law. The Board of Directors shall have the power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve, the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee may make rules for the conduct of its business and may appoint such committees and assistants as it shall from time to time deem necessary, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide. A majority of the members of the Executive Committee at the time in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. A record shall be kept of all proceedings of the Executive Committee, which shall be submitted to the Board of Directors at or before the next succeeding meeting of the Board of Directors.
     Section 6. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more other committees, to consist of such number of the directors and to have such powers as the Board of Directors may from time to
 
time determine. The Board of Directors shall have power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve, any such committee. A majority of any such committee may determine its action and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide.
     Section 7. In addition to reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred in attending meetings or otherwise in connection with his or her attention to the affairs of the Corporation, each director as such, as Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board and as a member of the Executive Committee or of any other committee of the Board of Directors, shall be entitled to receive such remuneration as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors, in the form either of fees for attendance at meetings of the Board of Directors and committees thereof or annual retainers, or both; but no director who receives a salary or other remuneration as an employee of the Corporation or any subsidiary thereof shall receive any additional remuneration as a director or member of any committee of the Board of Directors.
     Section 1. The Board of Directors, at its organizational meeting or as soon as may be after the election of directors held in each year, shall elect one of its number Chairman of the Board and one of its number President, and shall also elect a Secretary and a Treasurer, and from time to time may elect or appoint one of its number Vice Chairman of the Board, one or more Vice Presidents, a Controller, and such Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and other officers, agents and employees as it may deem proper. More than one office may be held by the same person.
     Section 2. The term of office of all officers shall be until the next organizational meeting of the Board of Directors or until their respective successors are elected and have qualified, but any officer may be removed from office at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors at the time in office.
     Any other employee of the Corporation, whether appointed by the Board of Directors or otherwise, may be removed at any time by the Board of Directors or by any committee or officer or employee upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the By-Laws or by the Board of Directors.
     The Board of Directors shall have power to fill for the unexpired term any vacancy which shall occur in any office by reason of death, resignation, removal or otherwise.
     Section 3. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and shall perform such other duties as shall from time to time be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
 
     The Vice Chairman of the Board shall in the absence of the Chairman of the Board preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and shall perform such other duties as shall from time to time be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board.
     The President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall perform such duties as are usually performed by that officer; he shall, in the absence of the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board, preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors; and shall perform such other duties as shall from time to time be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
     The other officers of the Corporation shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as generally pertain to their offices respectively, as well as such powers and duties as shall from time to time be conferred by the Board of Directors.
     Section 1. The Corporation shall indemnify to the full extent from time to time permitted by law any present, former or future director, officer, or employee ("Corporate Agent") made, or threatened to be made, a party to, or a witness or other participant in, any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, arbitrative, legislative, investigative, or of any other kind, including by or in the right of the Corporation ("Proceeding"), by reason of the fact that such person is or was a Corporate Agent of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation or, while serving as a Corporate Agent of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation, serves or served another enterprise (including, without limitation, any sole proprietorship, association, corporation, partnership, joint venture or trust), whether or not for profit, at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent thereof (including service with respect to any employee benefit plan of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation), against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, penalties, excise taxes and amounts paid in settlement, actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such Proceeding or any appeal therein. No indemnification pursuant to this Article IV shall be required with respect to any settlement or other nonadjudicated disposition of any threatened or pending Proceeding unless the Corporation has given its prior consent to such settlement or other disposition.
     Section 2. Expenses incurred in connection with a Proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation for any Corporate Agent of the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such Proceeding promptly upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation. Such an undertaking shall not, however, be required of a nonparty witness.
     Section 3. The foregoing indemnification and advancement of expenses shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which any person indemnified may be entitled.
 
     Section 4. The rights provided to any person by this Article IV shall be enforceable against the Corporation by such person, who shall be presumed to have relied upon it in serving or continuing to serve as a Corporate Agent. No elimination of or amendment to this Article IV shall deprive any person of rights hereunder arising out of alleged or actual occurrences, acts or failures to act occurring prior to such elimination or amendment. The rights provided to any person by this Article IV shall inure to the benefit of such person's legal representative and shall be applicable to Proceedings commenced or continuing after the adoption of this Article IV, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after such adoption.
     Section 5. The Corporation's Board of Directors may from time to time delegate
(i) to a Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or to independent legal counsel the authority to determine whether a Director or officer of the Corporation, and
(ii) to one or more officers of the Corporation the authority to determine whether an employee of the Corporation or any subsidiary, other than a Director or officer of the Corporation,
is entitled to indemnification or advancement of expenses pursuant to, and in accordance with, applicable law and this Article IV, subject to such conditions and limitations as the Board of Directors may prescribe.
     The fiscal year shall begin in each calendar year on the Monday following the Sunday which is nearest to July 31, and shall end on the Sunday which is nearest to July 31 of the following year.
     The Board of Directors shall provide a suitable seal, bearing the name of the Corporation, which seal shall be in the charge of the Secretary; provided that the use of a facsimile of such seal is hereby authorized.
     The Board of Directors shall have the power to make, amend and repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation by a vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors at the time in office at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors. The stockholders, by a majority of the
 
votes cast at a meeting of the stockholders, may adopt, alter, amend or repeal the By-Laws, whether made by the Board of Directors or otherwise.

 
 
      1.1 The purpose of the Plan is to provide financial incentives for selected Key Employees of the Campbell Group and for the non-employee Directors of the Company, thereby promoting the long-term growth and financial success of the Campbell Group by (1) attracting and retaining employees and Directors of outstanding ability, (2) strengthening the Campbell Group's capability to develop, maintain, and direct a competent management team, (3) providing an effective means for selected Key Employees and non-employee Directors to acquire and maintain ownership of Campbell Stock, (4) motivating Key Employees to achieve long-range Performance Goals and objectives, and (5) providing incentive compensation opportunities competitive with those of other major corporations.
Purpose.
      1.2 The Plan was approved by Shareowners on November 21, 2003, which is the Effective Date. Unless earlier terminated by the Board pursuant to Section 11.3, the Plan shall terminate on the tenth anniversary of its Effective Date. No Award shall be made pursuant to the Plan after its termination date, but Awards made prior to the termination date may extend beyond that date.
Effective Date and Expiration of Plan.
     The following words and phrases, as used in the Plan, shall have these meanings:
      2.1 means the individual or individuals to whom the Committee delegates authority under the Plan in accordance with Section 3.3.
"Administrator"
      2.2 means, individually or collectively, any Option, SAR, Restricted Stock, Restricted Performance Stock, unrestricted Campbell Stock or Performance Unit Award.
"Award"
      2.3 means a written confirmation of an Award under the Plan furnished to the Participant.
"Award Statement"
      2.4 means the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Board"
      2.5 means the Company and all of its Subsidiaries on and after the Effective Date.
"Campbell Group"
      2.6 means Capital Stock of the Company.
"Campbell Stock"
      2.7 except for purposes of Article XII, with respect to any Participant, means (i) the definition of "Cause" as set forth in any individual employment agreement applicable to such Participant, or (ii) in the case of a Participant who does not have an individual employment agreement that defines Cause, then "Cause" means the termination of a Participant's employment by reason of his or her (1) engaging in gross misconduct that is injurious to the Campbell Group, monetarily or otherwise, (2) misappropriation of funds, (3) willful misrepresentation to the directors or officers of the Campbell Group, (4) gross negligence in the performance of the Participant's duties having an adverse effect on the business, operations, assets, properties or financial condition of the Campbell Group, (5) conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude, or (6) entering into competition with the Campbell Group. The determination of whether a Participant's employment was terminated for Cause shall be made by the Company in its sole discretion.
"Cause"
      2.8 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
"Code"
 
      2.9 means the Compensation and Organization Committee of the Board or a subcommittee thereof.
"Committee"
      2.10 means Campbell Soup Company and its successors and assigns.
"Company"
      2.11 means an account established for a Participant under Section 10.1.
"Deferred Account"
      2.12 means any Campbell Soup Company Deferred Compensation Plan.
"Deferred Compensation Plan"
      2.13 means a member of the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Director"
      2.14 means November 21, 2003.
"Effective Date"
      2.15 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Exchange Act"
      2.16 means, as of any specified date, an amount equal to the mean between the reported high and low prices of Campbell Stock on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape on the specified date or, if no shares of Campbell Stock have been traded on any such dates, the mean between the reported high and low prices of Campbell Stock on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape as reported on the first day prior thereto on which shares of Campbell Stock were so traded. If shares of Campbell Stock are no longer traded on the New York Stock Exchange, "Fair Market Value" shall be determined in good faith by the Committee using other reasonable means.
"Fair Market Value"
      2.17 means the fiscal year of the Company, which is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the Sunday closest to July 31.
"Fiscal Year"
      2.18 means an option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereof.
"Incentive Stock Option"
      2.19 means a salaried employee of the Campbell Group who is in a management position.
"Key Employee"
      2.20 means an option granted under the Plan other than an Incentive Stock Option.
"Nonqualified Stock Option"
      2.21 means either a Nonqualified Stock Option or an Incentive Stock Option to purchase Campbell Stock.
"Option"
      2.22 means the price at which Campbell Stock may be purchased under an Option as provided in Section 5.4, or in the case of a SAR granted under Section 5.8, the Fair Market Value of Campbell Stock on the date the SAR is awarded.
"Option Price"
      2.23 means a Key Employee or a non-employee Director to whom an Award has been made under the Plan or a Transferee.
"Participant"
      2.24 means goals established by the Committee pursuant to Section 4.5.
"Performance Goals"
      2.25 means a period of time over which performance is measured.
"Performance Period"
      2.26 means the unit of measure determined under Article IX by which is expressed the value of a Performance Unit Award.
"Performance Unit"
      2.27 means an Award granted under Article IX.
"Performance Unit Award"
 
      2.28 means the person or persons who, upon the death, disability, or incompetency of a Participant, shall have acquired, by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or by other legal proceedings, the right to exercise an Option or SAR or the right to any Restricted Stock Award or Performance Unit Award theretofore granted or made to such Participant.
"Personal Representative"
      2.29 means Campbell Soup Company 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
"Plan"
      2.30 means The Campbell Soup Company 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended.
"Predecessor Plan"
      2.31 means Campbell Stock subject to Performance Goals.
"Restricted Performance Stock"
      2.32 means Campbell Stock subject to the terms and conditions provided in Article VI and including Restricted Performance Stock.
"Restricted Stock"
      2.33 means an Award granted under Article VI.
"Restricted Stock Award"
      2.34 means a period of time determined under Section 6.2 during which Restricted Stock is subject to the terms and conditions provided in Section 6.3.
"Restriction Period"
      2.35 means a stock appreciation right granted under Section 5.8.
"SAR"
      2.36 means the Shareowners of the Company.
"Shareowners"
      2.37 means a corporation or other entity the majority of the voting stock of which is owned directly or indirectly by the Company.
"Subsidiary"
      2.38 means a person to whom a Participant has transferred his or her rights to an Award under the Plan in accordance with Section 11.1 and procedures and guidelines adopted by the Company.
"Transferee"
      3.1 The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. A majority of the members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of business at any meeting. The Committee shall act by majority vote of the members present at a duly convened meeting, which may include a meeting by conference telephone call held in accordance with applicable law. Action may be taken without a meeting if written consent thereto is given in accordance with applicable law.
Committee to Administer.
      3.2
Powers of Committee.
     (a) The Committee shall have full power and authority to interpret and administer the Plan and to establish and amend rules and regulations for its administration. The Committee's decisions shall be final and conclusive with respect to the interpretation of the Plan and any Award made under it.
     (b) Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have authority, in its discretion, to determine those Key Employees who shall receive an Award, the time or times when such Award shall be made, the vesting schedule, if any, for the Award and the type of Award to be granted, the number of shares to be subject to each Option and Restricted Stock Award, and the value of each Performance Unit.
     (c) The Committee shall determine and set forth in an Award Statement the terms of each Award, including such terms, restrictions, and provisions as shall be necessary to cause certain Options to qualify
 
as Incentive Stock Options. The Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award Statement, in such manner and to the extent the Committee shall determine in order to carry out the purposes of the Plan. The Committee may, in its discretion, accelerate (i) the date on which any Option or SAR may be exercised, (ii) the date of termination of the restrictions applicable to a Restricted Stock Award, or (iii) the end of a Performance Period under a Performance Unit Award, if the Committee determines that to do so will be in the best interests of the Company and the Participants in the Plan; provided, however, that with respect to Awards that are subject to Section 409A of the Code, the Committee shall not have the authority to accelerate or postpone the timing of payment or settlement of an Award in a manner that would cause such Award to become subject to the interest and penalty provisions under Section 409A of the Code.
     3.3 The Committee may, but need not, from time to time delegate some or all of its authority under the Plan to an Administrator consisting of one or more members of the Committee or of the Board or of one or more officers of the Company; , that the Committee may not delegate its authority (i) to make Awards to Key Employees (A) who are subject on the date of the Award to the reporting rules under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, (B) whose compensation for such fiscal year may be subject to the limit on deductible compensation pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code, or (C) who are officers of the Company who are delegated authority by the Committee hereunder, unless in the cases of (A) through (C) above the delegation consists of at least two directors that satisfy the requirements of an "outside director" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code and a "non-employee director" for purposes of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, or (ii) to interpret the Plan or any Award, or (iii) under Section 11.3 of the Plan. Any delegation hereunder shall be subject to the restrictions and limits that the Committee specifies at the time of such delegation or thereafter. Nothing in the Plan shall be construed as obligating the Committee to delegate authority to an Administrator, and the Committee may at any time rescind the authority delegated to an Administrator appointed hereunder or appoint a new Administrator. At all times the Administrator appointed under this Section 3.3 shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the Committee. Any action undertaken by the Administrator in accordance with the Committee's delegation of authority shall have the same force and effect as if undertaken directly by the Committee, and any reference in the Plan to the Committee shall, to the extent consistent with the terms and limitations of such delegation, be deemed to include a reference to the Administrator.
Delegation by Committee.
provided, however
     4.1 Awards under the Plan shall consist of Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Stock Options, SARs, Restricted Stock, Restricted Performance Stock, unrestricted Campbell Stock and Performance Units. All Awards shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and to such other terms and conditions consistent with the Plan as the Committee deems appropriate. Awards under a particular section of the Plan need not be uniform and Awards under two or more sections may be combined in one Award Statement. Any combination of Awards may be granted at one time and on more than one occasion to the same Key Employee. Awards of Performance Units and Restricted Performance Stock shall be earned solely upon attainment of Performance Goals and the Committee shall have no discretion to increase such Awards.
Awards.
     4.2 An Award may be made to any Key Employee selected by the Committee. In making this selection and in determining the form and amount of the Award, the Committee may give consideration to the functions and responsibilities of the respective Key Employee, his or her present and potential contributions to the success of the Campbell Group, the value of his or her services to the Campbell Group, and such other factors deemed relevant by the Committee. Non-employee Directors are eligible to receive Awards pursuant to Article VII.
Eligibility for Awards.
 
     4.3
Shares Available Under the Plan.
     (a) The Campbell Stock to be offered under the Plan pursuant to Options, SARs, Performance Unit Awards, and Restricted Stock and unrestricted Campbell Stock Awards must be Campbell Stock previously issued and outstanding and reacquired by the Company. Subject to adjustment under Section 11.2, the number of shares of Campbell Stock that may be issued pursuant to Awards under the Plan (the ) shall not exceed, in the aggregate:
"Section 4.3 Limit"
     (b) Any shares of Campbell Stock subject to Options and SARs shall be counted against the Section 4.3 Limit as one share for every one share subject thereto. Any shares of Campbell Stock subject to Performance Unit Awards, Restricted Stock and unrestricted Campbell Stock Awards shall be counted against the Section 4.3 Limit as four shares for every one share subject thereto.
     (c) The Section 4.3 Limit shall be increased by shares of Campbell Stock that are subject to an Award which for any reason is cancelled (excluding shares subject to an Option cancelled upon the exercise of a related SAR) or terminated without having been exercised or paid.
     (d) The following shares of Campbell Stock may not again be made available for issuance as Awards under the Plan: (i) shares not issued or delivered as a result of the net settlement of an outstanding SAR or Option, (ii) shares used to pay the exercise price or withholding taxes related to an Award, or (iii) shares repurchased on the open market with the proceeds of the Option exercise price.
     4.4 The maximum aggregate dollar value of Restricted Stock and Performance Units awarded to any Key Employee with respect to a Performance Period or Restriction Period may not exceed $5 million for each fiscal year included in such Performance Period or Restriction Period. The maximum number of shares for which Options may be granted to any Participant in any one fiscal year shall not exceed five million.
Limitation on Awards.
     4.5 Prior to or during the beginning of a Performance Period (but in any event no later than 90 days into a Performance Period) the Committee will establish in writing one or more Performance Goals for the Company. Performance Goals will be comprised of specified levels of one or more of the following performance criteria as the Committee may deem appropriate: earnings per share, net earnings, operating earnings, unit volume, net sales, market share, balance sheet measurements, revenue, economic profit, cash flow, cash return on assets, shareowner return, return on equity, return on capital or other value-based performance measures. In addition, for any Awards not intended to meet the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee may establish Performance Goals based on other performance criteria as it deems appropriate. The Performance Goals may be described in terms of objectives that are related to the individual Participant or objectives that are Company-wide or related to a Subsidiary, division, department, region, function or business unit and may be measured on an absolute or cumulative basis or on the basis of percentage of improvement over time, and may be measured in terms of Company performance (or performance of the applicable Subsidiary, division, department, region, function or business unit) or measured relative to selected peer companies or a market index. The Committee may disregard or offset the effect of any special charges or gains or
General Performance Goals.
 
cumulative effect of a change in accounting in determining the attainment of Performance Goals. Awards may also be payable when Company performance, as measured by one or more of the above criteria, as compared to peer companies meets or exceeds an objective criterion established by the Committee.
     4.6 The Committee may, in its sole discretion, and on such terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe, give Participants the opportunity to receive Awards in lieu of future salary, bonus or other compensation.
Awards in Lieu of Salary or Bonus.
     5.1 The Committee may, from time to time, and on such terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe, award Incentive Stock Options and Nonqualified Stock Options to any Key Employee.
Award of Stock Options.
     5.2
Period of Option.
     (a) An Option granted under the Plan shall be exercisable only in accordance with the vesting schedule approved by the Committee. The Committee may in its discretion prescribe additional conditions, restrictions or terms on the vesting of an Option, including the full or partial attainment of Performance Goals pursuant to Section 4.5. After the Option vests, the Option may be exercised at any time during the term of the Option, in whole or in installments, as specified in the related Award Statement. Subject to Section 5.6, the duration of each Option shall not be more than ten years from the date of grant.
     (b) Except as provided in Section 5.6, a Participant may not exercise an Option unless such Participant is then, and continually (except for sick leave, military service, or other approved leave of absence) after the grant of the Option has been, an employee or Director of the Campbell Group.
     5.3 Each Option shall be evidenced by an Award Statement or an option agreement.
Award Statement or Agreement.
     5.4 The Option Price of Campbell Stock under each Option shall be determined by the Committee but shall be a price not less than 100 percent of the Fair Market Value of Campbell Stock at the date such Option is granted, as determined by the Committee.
Option Price, Exercise and Payment.
     Subject to Section 11.2, the Committee may not (i) amend an Option to reduce its Option Price, (ii) cancel an Option and regrant an Option with a lower Option Price than the original Option Price of the cancelled Option, or (iii) take any other action (whether in the form of an amendment, cancellation or replacement grant) that has the effect of repricing an Option.
     Vested Options may be exercised from time to time by giving written notice to the Treasurer of the Company, or his or her designee, specifying the number of shares to be purchased. The notice of exercise shall be accompanied by payment in full of the Option Price in cash or the Option Price may be paid in whole or in part through the transfer to the Company of shares of Campbell Stock in accordance with procedures established by the Committee from time to time. In addition, in accordance with the rules and procedures established by the Committee for this purpose, an Option may also be exercised through a "cashless exercise" procedure involving a broker or dealer, that affords Participants the opportunity to sell immediately some or all of the shares underlying the exercised portion of the Option in order to generate sufficient cash to pay the Option Price and/or to satisfy withholding tax obligations related to the Option.
     In the event such Option Price is paid in whole or in part, with shares of Campbell Stock, the portion of the Option Price so paid shall be equal to the value, as of the date of exercise of the Option, of such
 
shares. The value of such shares shall be equal to the number of such shares multiplied by the Fair Market Value of such shares on the trading day coincident with the date of exercise of such Option (or the immediately preceding trading day if the date of exercise is not a trading day). The Company shall not issue or transfer Campbell Stock upon exercise of an Option until the Option Price is fully paid. The Participant may satisfy any minimum amounts required to be withheld by the Company under applicable federal, state and local tax laws in effect from time to time, by electing to have the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Campbell Stock to be delivered for the payment of such taxes.
     5.5 Each provision of the Plan and each Award Statement relating to an Incentive Stock Option shall be construed so that each Incentive Stock Option shall be an "incentive stock option" as defined in Section 422 of the Code, and any provisions of the Award Statement thereof that cannot be so construed shall be disregarded.
Limitations on Incentive Stock Options.
     5.6 Subject to Article XII, the following provisions will govern the ability of a Participant to exercise any outstanding Options or SARs following the Participant's termination of employment with the Campbell Group unless the Committee determines otherwise with respect to any individual Option or SAR.
Termination of Employment.
     (a) If the employment of a Participant with the Campbell Group is terminated for reasons other than (i) death, (ii) discharge for Cause, (iii) retirement, or (iv) resignation, such Participant's outstanding SARs or Options may be exercised at any time within three years after such termination, to the extent of the number of shares covered by such Options or SARs which were exercisable at the date of such termination; except that an Option or SAR shall not be exercisable on any date beyond the expiration date of such Option or SAR.
     (b) If the employment of a Participant with the Campbell Group is terminated for Cause, any Options or SARs of such Participant (whether or not then exercisable) shall expire and any rights thereunder shall terminate immediately.
     (c) If the employment of a Participant is terminated due to resignation, such Participant's outstanding Options or SARs may be exercised at any time within three months of such resignation to the extent that the number of shares covered by such Options or SARS were exercisable at the date of such resignation, except that an Option or SAR shall not be exercisable on any date beyond the expiration date of such Option or SAR.
     (d) Should a Participant, who is not eligible to retire under the Company's pension plan or a pension plan of any affiliated company, die either while in the employ of the Campbell Group or after termination of such employment (other than discharge for Cause), the SARs or Options of such deceased Participant may be exercised by his or her Personal Representative at any time within three years after the Participant's death to the extent of the number of shares covered by such Options or SARs which were exercisable at the date of such death, except that an Option or SARs shall not be exercisable on any date beyond the expiration date of such Option or SAR.
     (e) Should a Participant who is eligible to retire under the Company's pension plan or a pension plan of any affiliated company die prior to the vesting of his or her outstanding Options or SARs, any installment or installments not then exercisable shall become fully exercisable as of the date of the Participant's death and the SARs or Options may be exercised by the Participant's Personal Representative at any time prior to the expiration date of such Options or SARs.
     (f) Should a Participant who has retired die prior to exercising all of his or her outstanding Options or SARs, then such SARs and Options may be exercised by the Participant's Personal Representative at any time prior to the expiration date of such Options or SARs.
     (g) If a Participant who was granted an Option or SAR dies within 180 days of the expiration date of such Option or SAR, and if on the date of death the Participant was entitled to exercise such Option or
 
SAR, including Options and SARs vested pursuant to Section 5.6(e), and if the Option or SAR expired without being exercised, the Personal Representative of the Participant shall receive in settlement a cash payment from the Company of a sum equal to the amount, if any, by which the Fair Market Value (determined on the expiration date of the Option or SAR) of Campbell Stock subject to the Option or SAR exceeds the Option Price.
     (h) In the event the Participant's employment with the Campbell Group terminates (except for a termination for Cause which is governed by Section 5.6(b)) prior to the vesting of all Options and SARs, and if the Participant is eligible to retire under the Company's pension plan or a pension plan of any affiliated company at the date of such termination, any installment or installments not then exercisable shall become fully exercisable as of the effective date of such termination and may be exercised at any time prior to the expiration date of such Options or SARs. If the Participant receives severance payments from the Company or any affiliated company and becomes eligible to retire during the severance payment period, all of the Participant's Options and SARs shall become fully exercisable as of the date of such Participant's retirement eligibility date and may be exercised at any time prior to the expiration date of such Options or SARs.
     5.7 A Participant shall have no rights as a Shareowner with respect to any shares of Campbell Stock covered by an Option until the issuance of such shares to the Participant.
Shareowner Rights and Privileges.
     5.8
Award of SARs.
     (a) The Committee may award to the Participant a SAR related to the Option. The Committee may also award SARs that are unrelated to any Option.
     (b) The SAR shall represent the right to receive payment of an amount equal to the amount by which the Fair Market Value of one share of Campbell Stock on the trading day immediately preceding the date of exercise of the SAR exceeds the Option Price multiplied by the number of shares covered by the SAR.
     (c) SARs awarded under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Statement or agreement between the Company and the Participant.
     (d) The Committee may prescribe conditions and limitations on the exercise or transferability of any SAR. SARs may be exercised only when the value of a share of Campbell Stock exceeds the Option Price. Such value shall be determined in the manner specified in Section 5.8(b).
     (e) A SAR shall be exercisable only by written notice to the Treasurer of the Company or his or her designee.
     (f) To the extent not previously exercised, all SARs shall automatically be exercised on the last trading day prior to their expiration, so long as the value of a share of Campbell Stock exceeds the Option Price, unless prior to such day the holder instructs the Treasurer otherwise in writing. Such value shall be determined in the manner specified in Section 5.8(b).
     (g) Payment of the amount to which a Participant is entitled upon the exercise of a SAR shall be made in cash, Campbell Stock, or partly in cash and partly in Campbell Stock at the discretion of the Committee. The shares shall be valued in the manner specified in Section 5.8(b).
     (h) Each SAR shall expire on a date determined by the Committee at the time of grant.
 
     6.1 The Committee may make a Restricted Stock Award to any Key Employee, subject to this Article VI and to such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe.
Award of Restricted Stock.
     6.2 At the time of making a Restricted Stock Award, the Committee shall establish the Restriction Period applicable to such Award. The Committee may establish different Restriction Periods from time to time and each Restricted Stock Award may have a different Restriction Period, in the discretion of the Committee. Restriction Periods, when established for a Restricted Stock Award, shall not be changed except as permitted by Section 6.3.
Restriction Period.
     6.3 Campbell Stock, when awarded pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award, will be represented in a book entry account in the name of the Participant who receives the Restricted Stock Award, unless the Participant has elected to defer pursuant to Section 10.1. The Participant shall be entitled to receive dividends during the Restriction Period and shall have the right to vote such Restricted Stock and shall have all other Shareowner's rights, with the exception that (i) the Participant will not be entitled to delivery of the stock certificate during the Restriction Period, (ii) the Company will retain custody of the Restricted Stock during the Restriction Period, and (iii) a breach of a restriction or a breach of the terms and conditions established by the Committee pursuant to the Restricted Stock Award will cause a forfeiture of the Restricted Stock Award. The Participant may satisfy any amounts required to be withheld by the Company under applicable federal, state and local tax laws in effect from time to time, by electing to have the Company withhold a portion of the Restricted Stock Award to be delivered for the payment of such taxes. The Committee may, in addition, prescribe additional restrictions, terms, or conditions upon or to the Restricted Stock Award including the attainment of Performance Goals in accordance with Section 4.5.
Other Terms and Conditions.
     6.4 Each Restricted Stock Award shall be evidenced by an Award Statement or an agreement.
Restricted Stock Award Statement or Agreement.
     6.5 Subject to Article XII, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, establish rules pertaining to the Restricted Stock Award in the event of termination of employment (by retirement, disability, death, or otherwise) of a Participant prior to the expiration of the Restriction Period. If the employment of a Participant with the Campbell Group is terminated for Cause, any non-vested Restricted Stock Awards of such Participant shall immediately be forfeited and any rights thereunder shall terminate.
Termination of Employment.
     6.6 Restricted Stock Awards may be made by the Committee under which the Participant shall not be required to make any payment for the Campbell Stock or, in the alternative, under which the Participant, as a condition to the Restricted Stock Award, shall pay all (or any lesser amount than all) of the Fair Market Value of the Campbell Stock, determined as of the date the Restricted Stock Award is made. If the latter, such purchase price shall be paid in cash as provided in the Award Statement.
Payment for Restricted Stock.
     7.1 The Board will approve the compensation of non-employee Directors and such compensation may consist of Awards under the Plan. The Board retains the discretionary authority to make Awards to non-employee Directors. All such Awards shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and to such other terms and conditions consistent with the Plan as the Board deems appropriate. The Board may, in its sole discretion, subject to such terms and conditions
Award to Non-Employee Directors.
 
as the Board may prescribe, give non-employee Directors the opportunity to receive an Option Award in lieu of future cash compensation or other types of Awards.
     7.2 Each non-employee Director may elect to receive all or a portion (in 10% increments) of any cash compensation in shares of Campbell Stock, which will be issued quarterly. Only whole numbers of shares will be issued. For purposes of computing the number of shares earned and their taxable value each quarter, the value of each share shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of a share of Campbell Stock on the last business day of the quarter. If a Participant dies prior to payment of all shares earned, the balance due shall be payable in full to the Participant's designated beneficiary under the Deferred Compensation Plan, or, if none, to the Participant's estate, in cash.
Election by Non-employee Directors to Receive Campbell Stock.
     7.3 None of the actions of the Company in establishing the Plan, the actions taken by the Company, the Board, the Committee or the Administrator under the Plan, or the granting of any Award under the Plan shall be deemed (i) to create any obligation on the part of the Board to nominate any Director for reelection by the Company's Shareowners or (ii) to be evidence of any agreement or understanding, express or implied, that the Director has a right to continue as a Director for any period of time or at any particular rate of compensation.
No Right to Continuance as a Director.
     8.1 The Committee may make awards of unrestricted Campbell Stock to Key Employees in recognition of outstanding achievements or as an additional award for Key Employees who receive Restricted Stock Awards when Performance Goals are exceeded.
     9.1 The Committee may award Performance Units to any Key Employee. Each Performance Unit shall represent the right of a Participant to receive an amount equal to the value of the Performance Unit, determined in the manner established by the Committee at the time of Award.
Award of Performance Units.
     9.2 At the time of each Performance Unit Award, the Committee shall establish, with respect to each such Award, a Performance Period during which performance shall be measured. There may be more than one Performance Unit Award in existence at any one time, and Performance Periods may differ.
Performance Period.
     9.3 Performance Units shall be awarded to a Participant and earned contingent upon the attainment of Performance Goals in accordance with Section 4.5.
Performance Measures.
     9.4 Each Performance Unit shall have a maximum dollar value established by the Committee at the time of the Award. Performance Units earned will be determined by the Committee in respect of a Performance Period in relation to the degree of attainment of Performance Goals. The measure of a Performance Unit may, in the discretion of the Committee, be equal to the Fair Market Value of one share of Campbell Stock.
Performance Unit Value.
     9.5 In determining the number of Performance Units to be granted to any Participant, the Committee shall take into account the Participant's responsibility level, performance, potential, cash compensation level, other incentive awards, and such other considerations as it deems appropriate.
Award Criteria.
 
     9.6 (a) Following the end of the Performance Period, a Participant holding Performance Units will be entitled to receive payment of an amount, not exceeding the maximum value of the Performance Units, based on the achievement of the Performance Goals for such Performance Period, as determined by the Committee.
Payment.
     (b) Payment of Performance Units shall be made in cash, whether payment is made at the end of the Performance Period or is deferred pursuant to Section 10.1, except that Performance Units which are measured using Campbell Stock shall be paid in Campbell Stock. Payment shall be made in a lump sum or in installments and shall be subject to such other terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Committee.
     9.7 (a) Subject to Article XII, a Performance Unit Award shall terminate for all purposes if the Participant does not remain continuously in the employ of the Campbell Group at all times during the applicable Performance Period, except as may otherwise be determined by the Committee.
Termination of Employment.
     (b) In the event that a Participant holding a Performance Unit ceases to be an employee of the Campbell Group following the end of the applicable Performance Period but prior to full payment according to the terms of the Performance Unit Award, payment shall be made in accordance with terms established by the Committee for the payment of such Performance Unit.
     9.8 Each Performance Unit Award shall be evidenced by an Award Statement or agreement.
Performance Unit Award Statements or Agreements.
     10.1 Subject to the terms and conditions of the Performance Unit Award Statement or Agreement, a Participant may elect to defer all or a portion of any related earned Performance Units, Restricted Stock, unrestricted Campbell Stock or gain on any exercised Option or SAR pursuant to the terms of any Deferred Compensation Plan; provided, however, that the terms of any deferrals under this Section 10.1 shall comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, Section 409A of the Code. The value of the Performance Units, Restricted Stock, unrestricted Campbell Stock or Option or SAR gain so deferred shall be allocated to a Deferred Account established for the Participant under any Deferred Compensation Plan.
Election to Defer.
     11.1
Limits as to Transferability.
     (a) The Committee, may, in its discretion, permit a Nonqualified Stock Option to be transferred by the Participant, subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall specify. Any Nonqualified Stock Option so transferred may not be subsequently transferred by the Transferee except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Such transferred Nonqualified Stock Option shall continue to be governed by and subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and the corresponding Award Statement.
     (b) Incentive Stock Options shall not be transferable by the Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by the Participant. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, the Committee may in its discretion permit the transfer of an Incentive Stock Option by the Participant to a trust if, under Section 671 of the Code and applicable state law, the Participant is the sole beneficial owner of such Incentive Stock Option while it is held in trust.
 
     (c) Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, no SAR (except for any SAR issued in tandem with an Option), share of Restricted Stock, or Performance Unit under the Plan shall be transferable by the Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
     (b) Any transfer contrary to this Section 11.1 will nullify the Option, SAR, Performance Unit, or share of Restricted Stock.
     11.2 In case of any reorganization, recapitalization, reclassification, stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, extraordinary one-time dividend, distribution, combination of shares, merger, consolidation, spin-off, split-up, rights offering, or any other changes in the corporate structure or shares of the Company, appropriate adjustments may be made by the Committee (or if the Company is not the surviving corporation in any such transaction, the board of directors of the surviving corporation) in the aggregate number and kind of shares subject to the Plan, and the number and kind of shares and the price per share subject to outstanding Options or which may be issued under outstanding Restricted Stock Awards or pursuant to unrestricted Campbell Stock Awards. Appropriate adjustments may also be made by the Committee in the terms of any Awards under the Plan, subject to Article XII, to reflect such changes and to modify any other terms of outstanding Awards on an equitable basis, including modifications of Performance Goals and changes in the length of Performance Periods. Any such adjustments made by the Committee pursuant to this Section 11.2 shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes under the Plan.
Adjustments Upon Changes in Stock.
     11.3
Amendment, Suspension, and Termination of Plan.
     (a) The Board may suspend or terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any time, and may amend the Plan from time to time in such respects as the Board may deem advisable in order that any Awards thereunder shall conform to any change in applicable laws or regulations or in any other respect the Board may deem to be in the best interests of the Company; provided, however, that no such amendment shall, without Shareowner approval, (i) except as provided in Section 11.2, increase the number of shares of Campbell Stock which may be issued under the Plan, (ii) expand the types of awards available to Participants under the Plan, (iii) materially expand the class of employees eligible to participate in the Plan, (iv) materially change the method of determining the exercise price of Options; (v) delete or limit the provision in Section 5.4 prohibiting the repricing of Options; or (vi) extend the termination date of the Plan. No such amendment, suspension, or termination shall materially adversely alter or impair any outstanding Options, SARs, shares of Restricted Stock, or Performance Units without the consent of the Participant affected thereby.
     (b) The Committee may amend or modify any outstanding Options, SARs, Restricted Stock Awards, or Performance Unit Awards in any manner to the extent that the Committee would have had the authority under the Plan initially to award such Options, SARs, Restricted Stock Awards, or Performance Unit Awards as so modified or amended, including without limitation, to change the date or dates as of which such Options or SARs may be exercised, to remove the restrictions on shares of Restricted Stock, or to modify the manner in which Performance Units are determined and paid.
     (c) Anything to the contrary in the foregoing notwithstanding, the Board shall have broad authority to amend the Plan without the consent of a Participant to the extent the Board deems necessary or advisable (i) to comply with, or take into account changes in applicable tax laws, securities laws, accounting rules or other applicable laws, rules and regulations or (ii) to ensure that an Award is not subject to interest or penalties under Section 409A of the Code.
     11.4 The Committee's determinations under the Plan, including without limitation, (i) the determination of the Key Employees to receive Awards, (ii) the form, amount, and timing of such Awards, (iii) the terms and provisions of such Awards and (iv) the Award Statements evidencing the same, need not be uniform and may be made by it selectively among Key Employees who receive, or who are eligible to receive, Awards under the Plan, whether or not such Key Employees are similarly situated.
Nonuniform Determinations.
 
     11.5 Each Award under the Plan shall be subject to the condition that, if at any time the Committee shall determine that (i) the listing, registration, or qualification of the shares of Campbell Stock subject or related thereto upon any securities exchange or under any state or federal law (ii) the consent or approval of any government or regulatory body, or (iii) an agreement by the Participant with respect thereto, is necessary or desirable, then such Award shall not become exercisable in whole or in part unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent, approval, or agreement shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
General Restriction.
     11.6 None of the actions of the Company in establishing the Plan, the action taken by the Company, the Board, the Committee or the Administrator under the Plan, or the granting of any Award under the Plan shall be deemed (i) to create any obligation on the part of the Company to retain any person in the employ of the Campbell Group, or (ii) to be evidence of any agreement or understanding, express or implied, that the person has a right to continue as an employee for any period of time or at any particular rate of compensation.
No Right To Employment.
     11.7 The provisions of the Plan shall take precedence over any conflicting provision contained in an Award Statement. All matters relating to the Plan or to Awards granted hereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New Jersey without regard to the principles of conflict of laws.
Governing Law.
     11.8 All benefits under the Plan represent an unsecured promise to pay by the Company. The Plan shall be unfunded and the benefits hereunder shall be paid only from the general assets of the Company resulting in the Participants having no greater rights than the Company's general creditors; provided, however, nothing herein shall prevent or prohibit the Company from establishing a trust or other arrangement for the purpose of providing for the payment of the benefits payable under the Plan.
Trust Arrangement.
     11.9 The Company or any Subsidiary, as appropriate, shall have the right to require any Participant entitled to receive a payment in respect of an Award to remit to the Company or any Subsidiary, prior to such payment, an amount sufficient to satisfy any applicable tax withholding requirements. In case of an Award payable in shares of Campbell Stock, the Company or the Subsidiary, as appropriate, may permit such individual to satisfy, in whole or in part, such obligation to remit any minimum taxes by directing the Company to withhold shares of Campbell Stock that would otherwise be received by such Participant to satisfy the minimum statutory withholding rates for any applicable tax withholding purposes, in accordance with applicable laws and pursuant to such rules as the Committee may establish from time to time. The Company or a Subsidiary, as appropriate, also shall have the right to deduct from all cash payment made to a Participant (whether or not such payment is made in connection with an Award) any applicable taxes required to be withheld in connection with an Award.
Taxes.
     11.10 If any provision of the Plan or an Award Statement contravenes any regulations or Treasury guidance promulgated under Section 409A of the Code or could cause an Award to be subject to the interest and penalties under Section 409A of the Code, such provision of the Plan or any Award Statement shall be modified to maintain, to the maximum extent practicable, the original intent of the applicable provision without violating the provisions of Section 409A of the Code. Moreover, any discretionary authority that the Committee may have pursuant to the Plan shall not be applicable to an Award that is subject to Section 409A of the Code to the extent such discretionary authority will contravene Section 409A or the regulations or guidance promulgated thereunder. In addition, to the extent required to avoid a violation of the applicable rules under Section 409A by reason of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), any payment under an Award shall be delayed until the earliest date of payment that will result in compliance with the rules of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i).
Section 409A of the Code.
 
     12.1 Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary, the provisions of this Article XII shall govern and supersede any inconsistent terms or provisions of the Plan.
Contrary Provisions.
     12.2
Definitions.
     (a) For purposes of the Plan, "Change in Control" shall mean any of the following events:
Change in Control.
     (i) The acquisition in one or more transactions by any "Person" (as the term person is used for purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act) of "Beneficial Ownership" (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities (the "Voting Securities"), provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 12.2(a), the Voting Securities acquired directly from the Company by any Person shall be excluded from the determination of such Person's Beneficial Ownership of Voting Securities (but such Voting Securities shall be included in the calculation of the total number of Voting Securities then outstanding); or
     (ii) The individuals who, as of November 21, 2003, are members of the Board (the "Incumbent Board"), cease for any reason to constitute more than fifty percent of the Board; provided, however, that if the election, or nomination for election by the Company's Shareowners, of any new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Incumbent Board, such new director shall, for purposes of the Plan, be considered as a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a person other than the Board; or
     (iii) The consummation of a merger or consolidation involving the Company if the Shareowners of the Company, immediately before such merger or consolidation, do not own, directly or indirectly immediately following such merger or consolidation, more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the outstanding Voting Securities of the corporation resulting from such merger or consolidation in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Voting Securities immediately before such merger or consolidation; or
     (iv) Approval by Shareowners of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or an agreement for the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or
     (v) Acceptance of Shareowners of the Company of shares in a share exchange if the Shareowners of the Company, immediately before such share exchange, do not own, directly or indirectly immediately following such share exchange, more than fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the outstanding Voting Securities of the corporation resulting from such share exchange in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Voting Securities outstanding immediately before such share exchange.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the then outstanding Voting Securities is acquired by (i) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under one or more employee benefit plans maintained by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (ii) any corporation which, immediately prior to such acquisition, is owned directly or indirectly by the Shareowners of the Company in the same proportion as their ownership of stock in the Company immediately prior to such acquisition, (iii) any "Grandfathered Dorrance Family Shareowner" (as hereinafter defined) or (iv) any Person who has acquired such Voting Securities directly
 
from any Grandfathered Dorrance Family Shareowner but only if such Person has executed an agreement which is approved by two-thirds of the Board and pursuant to which such Person has agreed that he (or they) will not increase his (or their) Beneficial Ownership (directly or indirectly) to 30% or more of the outstanding Voting Securities (the "Standstill Agreement") and only for the period during which the Standstill Agreement is effective and fully honored by such Person. For purposes of this Section, "Grandfathered Dorrance Family Shareowner" shall mean at any time a "Dorrance Family Shareowner" (as hereinafter defined) who or which is at the time in question the Beneficial Owner solely of (v) Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by such individual on January 25, 1990, (w) Voting Securities acquired directly from the Company, (x) Voting Securities acquired directly from another Grandfathered Dorrance Family Shareowner, (y) Voting Securities which are also Beneficially Owned by other Grandfathered Dorrance Family Shareowners at the time in question, and (z) Voting Securities acquired after January 25, 1990 other than directly from the Company or from another Grandfathered Dorrance Family Shareowner by any "Dorrance Grandchild" (as hereinafter defined) provided that the aggregate amount of Voting Securities so acquired by each such Dorrance Grandchild shall not exceed five percent (5%) of the Voting Securities outstanding at the time of such acquisition. A "Dorrance Family Shareowner" who or which is at the time in question the Beneficial Owner of Voting Securities which are not specified in clauses (v), (w), (x), (y) and (z) of the immediately preceding sentence shall not be a Grandfathered Dorrance Family Shareowner at the time in question. For purposes of this Section, "Dorrance Family Shareowners" shall mean individuals who are descendants of the late Dr. John T. Dorrance, Sr. and/or the spouses, fiduciaries and foundations of such descendants. A "Dorrance Grandchild" means as to each particular grandchild of the late Dr. John T. Dorrance, Sr., all of the following taken collectively: such grandchild, such grandchild's descendants and/or the spouses, fiduciaries and foundations of such grandchild and such grandchild's descendants.
     Moreover, notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to occur solely because any Person (the "Subject Person") acquired Beneficial Ownership of more than the permitted amount of the outstanding Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company which, by reducing the number of Voting Securities outstanding, increases the proportional number of shares Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, provided that if a Change in Control would occur (but for the operation of this sentence) as a result of the acquisition of Voting Securities by the Company, and after such share acquisition by the Company, the Subject Person becomes the Beneficial Owner of any additional Voting Securities which increases the percentage of the then outstanding Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by the Subject Person, then a Change in Control shall occur.
     Notwithstanding anything contained in this Plan to the contrary, with respect to an Award that is subject to Section 409A of the Code and payment or settlement of the Award will accelerate upon a Change in Control, no event set forth in an Award Statement or other agreement applicable to a Participant or in clauses (a)(i)  (v) of this Section 12.2 shall constitute a Change in Control for purposes of the Plan and any Award unless such event also constitutes a "change in ownership", "change in effective control" or "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the company's assets" as defined under Section 409A of the Code and the regulations and guidance promulgated thereunder.
     Notwithstanding anything contained in this Plan to the contrary, if a Participant's employment is terminated by the Company without Cause within one year prior to a Change in Control and such termination (i) was at the request of a third party who effectuates a Change in Control or (ii) otherwise occurred in connection with or in anticipation of, a Change in Control, then for purposes of this Article XII only, the date of a Change in Control shall mean the date immediately prior to the date of such Participant's termination of employment.
     (b) For purposes of this Article XII only, with respect to any Participant, (i) "Cause" shall be defined as set forth in any individual agreement applicable to a Participant, or (ii) in the case of a Participant who does not have an individual agreement that defines Cause, then Cause shall mean the termination of a Participant's employment by reason of his or her (A) conviction of a felony or (B) engaging in conduct which constitutes willful gross misconduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Campbell Group, monetarily or otherwise. No act, nor failure to act, on the Participant's
Cause.
 
part, shall be considered "willful" unless he or she has acted, or failed to act, with an absence of good faith and without a reasonable belief that his or her action or failure to act was in the best interest of the Campbell Group.
     (c) For purposes of this Article XII, with respect to any Participant, (i) "Good Reason" shall be defined as set forth in any individual agreement applicable to a Participant, or (ii) in the case of a Participant who does not have an individual agreement that defines Good Reason, then Good Reason shall mean any of the following events or conditions:
Good Reason.
     (A) a reduction in the Participant's base salary or any failure to pay the Participant any compensation or benefits to which he or she is entitled within thirty (30) days of the date due;
     (B) the Campbell Group's requiring the Participant to be based at any place outside a 50-mile radius from his or her site of employment prior to the Change in Control, except for reasonably required travel on the Campbell Group's business which is not greater than such travel requirements prior to the Change in Control;
     (C) the failure by the Campbell Group to provide the Participant with compensation and benefits, in the aggregate, substantially equivalent (in terms of benefit levels and/or reward opportunities) to those provided for under compensation or employee benefit plans, programs and practices as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control (or as in effect following the Change in Control, if greater);
     (D) any purported termination of the Participant's employment for Cause which does not comply with the requirements of the definition of "Cause" as set forth in Section 12.2(b); or
     (E) the failure of the Company to obtain an agreement from any successor or assign of the Company to assume and agree to perform the Plan.
     12.3
Effect of Change in Control on Certain Awards.
     (a) If the Company is not the surviving corporation following a Change in Control, and the surviving corporation following such Change in Control or the acquiring corporation (such surviving corporation or acquiring corporation is hereinafter referred to as the "Acquiror") does not assume the outstanding Options, SARs or Restricted Stock (other than Restricted Performance Stock) or does not substitute equivalent equity awards relating to the securities of such Acquiror or its affiliates for such Awards, then all such Awards shall become immediately and fully exercisable (or in the case of Restricted Stock, fully vested and all restrictions will immediately lapse). In addition, the Board or its designee may, in its sole discretion, provide for a cash payment to be made to each Participant for the outstanding Options, SARs or Restricted Stock (other than Restricted Performance Stock) upon the consummation of the Change in Control, determined on the basis of the fair market value that would be received in such Change in Control by the holders of the Company's securities relating to such Awards. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Option intended to be an Incentive Stock Option under Section 422 of the Code shall be adjusted in a manner to preserve such status.
     (b) If the Company is the surviving corporation following a Change in Control, or the Acquiror assumes the outstanding Options, SARs or Restricted Stock (other than Restricted Performance Stock) or substitutes equivalent equity awards relating to the securities of such Acquiror or its affiliates for such Awards, then all such Awards or such substitutes therefore shall remain outstanding and be governed by their respective terms and the provisions of the Plan.
     (c) If (i) the employment of a Participant with the Campbell Group is terminated (A) without Cause (as defined in Section 12.2(b)) or (B) by the Participant for Good Reason, in either case within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control, and (ii) the Company is the surviving corporation following such Change in Control, or the Acquiror assumes the outstanding Options, SARs or Restricted Stock (other than Restricted Performance Stock) or substitutes equivalent equity awards relating to the
 
securities of such Acquiror or its affiliates for such Awards, then all outstanding Options, SARs or Restricted Stock (other than Restricted Performance Stock) shall become immediately and fully exercisable (or in the case of Restricted Stock, fully vested and all restrictions will immediately lapse).
     (d) If (i) the employment of a Participant with the Campbell Group is terminated for Cause within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control and (ii) the Company is the surviving corporation following such Change in Control, or the Acquiror assumes the outstanding Options, SARs or Restricted Stock (other than Restricted Performance Stock) or substitutes equivalent equity awards relating to the securities of such Acquiror or its affiliates for such Awards, then any Options or SARs of such Participant shall expire, and any non-vested Restricted Stock shall be forfeited, and any rights under such Awards shall terminate immediately.
     (e) Outstanding Options or SARs which vest in accordance with Section 12.3, may be exercised by the Participant in accordance with Section 5.6; provided, however, that a Participant whose Options or SARs become exercisable in accordance with Section 12.3(c) may exercise a SAR or an Option at any time within three years after such termination, except that an Option or SAR shall not be exercisable on any date beyond the expiration date of such Option or SAR, provided, further that any Participant who is eligible to retire at the date of such termination (or during any period during which such Participant receives severance payments) may exercise his or her Options or SARs in accordance with Section 5.6(h)), and provided, further, that in the event of a Participant's death after such termination the exercise of Options and SARs shall be governed by Sections 5.6(d)(f) or (g), as the case may be.
     12.4 (a) If the Company is not the surviving corporation following a Change in Control, and the Acquiror does not assume the Restricted Performance Stock or the Performance Units or does not substitute equivalent awards (including, in the case of equity or equity-related Awards, equivalent equity awards) for such Awards, then the Participant shall (i) become vested in, and restrictions shall lapse on, the greater of (A) fifty percent (50%) of the Restricted Performance Stock or Performance Units or (B) a pro rata portion of such Restricted Performance Stock or Performance Units based on the portion of the Performance Period that has elapsed to the date of the Change in Control and the aggregate vesting percentage determined pursuant to this clause (B) shall be applied to vesting first such Awards granted the farthest in time preceding the Change in Control and (ii) be entitled to receive (A) in respect of all Performance Units which become vested and with respect to which the restrictions lapse as a result of such Change in Control, a cash payment within thirty (30) days after such Change in Control equal to the product of the then current value of a Performance Unit multiplied by the number of Performance Units which become vested and with respect to which restrictions lapse in accordance with this subparagraph (a) and (B) in respect of all shares of Performance Restricted Stock which become vested and with respect to which restrictions lapse as a result of such Change in Control, the prompt delivery of such shares; provided, however, that the Board or its designee may, in its sole discretion, provide for a cash payment to be made to each Participant for the vested Restricted Performance Stock upon the consummation of the Change in Control, determined on the basis of the fair market value that would be received in such Change in Control by the holders of the Company's securities relating to such Award.
Effect of Change in Control on Restricted Performance Stock and Performance Units.
     (b) If the Company is the surviving corporation following a Change in Control, or the Acquiror assumes the Restricted Performance Stock or the Performance Units or substitutes equivalent awards (including, in the case of equity or equity-related Awards, equivalent equity awards), then all such Awards or such substitutes therefor shall remain outstanding and be governed by their respective terms and the provisions of the Plan.
     (c) If (i) the employment of a Participant with the Campbell Group is terminated (A) without Cause or (B) by the Participant for Good Reason, in either case within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control, and (ii) the Company is the surviving corporation following such Change in Control, or the Acquiror assumes the Restricted Performance Stock or the Performance Units or substitutes equivalent awards (including, in the case of equity or equity-related Awards, equivalent equity awards), then the Participant shall (i) become vested in, and restrictions shall lapse on, the greater of (A) fifty percent (50%)
 
of the Restricted Performance Stock or Performance Units or (B) a pro rata portion of such Restricted Performance Stock or Performance Units based on the portion of the Performance Period that has elapsed to the date of the termination of employment and the aggregate vesting percentage determined pursuant to this clause (B) shall be applied to vesting first such Awards granted the farthest in time preceding the termination of employment and (ii) be entitled to receive (A) in respect of all Performance Units which become vested and with respect to which the restrictions lapse as a result of such termination of employment, a cash payment within thirty (30) days after such termination of employment equal to the product of the then current value of a Performance Unit multiplied by the number of Performance Units which become vested and with respect to which restrictions lapse in accordance with this subparagraph (c) and (B) in respect of all shares of Performance Restricted Stock which become vested and with respect to which restrictions lapse as a result of such termination of employment, the prompt delivery of such shares.
     (d) If (i) the employment of a Participant with the Campbell Group is terminated for Cause within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control and (ii) the Company is the surviving corporation following such Change in Control, or the Acquiror assumes the Restricted Performance Stock or the Performance Units or substitutes equivalent awards (including, in the case of equity or equity-related Awards, equivalent equity awards), then any non-vested Performance Restricted Stock or non-vested Performance Units of such Participant shall immediately be forfeited and any rights thereunder shall terminate.
     (e) With respect to any shares of Performance Restricted Stock or Performance Units which do not become vested under Section 12.4(a) (the "Continuing Awards"), such shares or units (or the proceeds thereof) shall continue to be outstanding for the remainder of the applicable Performance Period (as if such shares or units were the only shares or units granted in respect of each such Performance Period) and subject to the applicable Performance Goals as modified in accordance with the provisions hereof.
     12.5 (a) This Article XII shall not be amended or terminated at any time if any such amendment or termination would adversely affect the rights of any Participant under the Plan.
Amendment or Termination.
     (b) For a period of twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control, the Plan shall not be terminated (unless replaced by a comparable long-term incentive plan) and during such period the Plan (or such replacement plan) shall be administered in a manner such that Participants will be provided with long-term incentive awards producing reward opportunities generally comparable to those provided prior to the Change in Control. Any amendment or termination of the Plan prior to a Change in Control which (i) was at the request of a third party who has indicated an intention or taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or in anticipation of a Change in Control, shall be null and void and shall have no effect whatsoever.
     (c) Following a Change in Control, the Plan shall be amended as necessary to make appropriate adjustments to the Performance Goals for the Continuing Awards for (i) any negative effect that the costs and expenses incurred by the Campbell Group in connection with the Change in Control may have on the achievement of Performance Goals under the Plan and (ii) any changes to the Company and/or its Subsidiaries (including, but not limited to, changes in corporate structure, capitalization and increased interest expense as a result of the incurrence or assumption by the Company of acquisition indebtedness) following the Change in Control so as to preserve the reward opportunities and Performance Goals for comparable performance under the Plan as in effect on the date immediately prior to the Change in Control.


