FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20080428163837.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.05
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
On April 28, 2008, Campbell Soup Company ("Campbell") approved a series of initiatives designed to improve Campbell's operational efficiency and long-term profitability.
Details of these initiatives include:
As a result of these initiatives, Campbell expects to incur aggregate pre-tax costs and charges of approximately $230 million, consisting of the following: approximately $115 million associated with impairment charges to reflect the net assets of the snack foods business at its estimated fair value, less costs to sell; approximately $67 million in employee severance and benefit costs, including the estimated impact of curtailment and other pension charges; approximately $38 million in asset write-offs and accelerated depreciation of property, plant and equipment; and approximately $10 million in other exit costs. Campbell expects to incur these charges primarily in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2008, with the remaining amounts recognized in fiscal
 
2009. Of the aggregate $230 million pre-tax costs and charges, the company expects approximately $65 million will be cash expenditures.
Item 2.06  Material Impairments
The information included in Item 2.05 above is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure
On April 28, 2008, Campbell issued a press release announcing the initiatives described under Item 2.05. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today announced a series of initiatives designed to improve the company's operational efficiency and enhance its long-term profitability. Details of Campbell's actions include:
CAMDEN, N.J. April 28, 2008Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
 
     In addition to these actions, Campbell plans, subject to legal requirements, to streamline its international management structure and eliminate certain overhead costs associated with businesses the company has divested.
     Campbell anticipates that it will incur pre-tax charges and implementation costs of approximately $230 million related to these initiatives. These charges will be incurred primarily in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2008. The company expects that the future savings from these actions will have a modestly favorable impact on earnings and cash flow beginning in its fiscal year 2009. Campbell will provide more detail on these initiatives through a public filing and when it reports third quarter results on May 19, 2008.
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "The actions announced today will continue to position Campbell as a high-performing focused food company. Through a relentless focus on our core businesses of simple meals, baked snacks and healthy beverages and by eliminating inefficiencies in our portfolio and operations, we will be able to meet the needs of customers and consumers faster, better and more completely than the competition and create greater value for our shareowners."
About Campbell Soup Company
Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high-quality foods and simple meals, including soup, baked snacks, and healthy beverages. Founded in 1869, the company has a portfolio of market-leading brands, including "Campbell's," "Pepperidge Farm," "Arnott's," and "V8." For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website at
www.campbellsoup.com.
Forward-Looking Statement
This release contains "forward-looking statements" that reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of cost-saving initiatives and portfolio strategies, including divestitures, on sales, earnings, cash flows and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates that could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement made by the company. Please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings for a further discussion of these risks and uncertainties. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.


