FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20091123084034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
     
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
     
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
     
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 23, 2009, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended November 1, 2009, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today reported its fiscal 2010 first-quarter results.
CAMDEN, N.J., Nov. 23, 2009Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
First-Quarter Highlights
     Net earnings for the quarter ended Nov. 1, 2009 were $304 million, or $0.87 per share, compared to $260 million, or $0.70 per share, in the prior year. Excluding items impacting comparability from the prior year, net earnings per share increased 14 percent in the current quarter from adjusted net earnings per share of $0.76 in the prior period. The items impacting comparability and a detailed reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2009 financial information to the reported information are included at the end of this news release.
     In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, Campbell adopted and retrospectively applied new accounting guidance related to the calculation of earnings per share. The retrospective application of these provisions resulted in a reduction of previously reported diluted net earnings per share of $0.01 for both the first quarter and full year of fiscal 2009.
 
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We feel good about our performance in the first quarter as we delivered solid earnings growth across all of our key businesses. We're especially pleased with the significant improvement in our gross margin, driven by increased productivity in our supply chain. Our U.S. Soup business faced difficult top-line comparisons with last year's first quarter when sales increased 12 percent. In this year's first quarter, we built momentum in the latter part of the quarter when, as planned, we significantly stepped up our marketing and merchandising programs. Looking ahead, we're optimistic about our U.S. Soup business, led by the renovated Campbell's Chunky' line, innovations in our condensed portfolio and our Swanson' broth business."
     Conant concluded, "While it is early in the fiscal year, we're raising our guidance based on our results in the quarter and our outlook for the remainder of the year, including currency."
Campbell Raises Fiscal 2010 Guidance
     Campbell now expects fiscal 2010 sales growth of 4 to 5 percent and adjusted earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) growth of 6 to 7 percent, up from its original guidance of 3 to 4 percent for sales and 5 to 6 percent for EBIT. The company now expects to deliver adjusted EPS growth of 9 to 11 percent from the fiscal 2009 adjusted base of $2.21, up from its original estimate of 5 to 7 percent. This guidance includes the impact of currency translation, which at quarter-end rates of exchange would be favorable by 3 to 4 percentage points.
First-Quarter Results
     For the first quarter, sales decreased 2 percent to $2.203 billion. The change in sales for the quarter reflected the following factors:
First-Quarter Financial Details
 
Summary of Fiscal 2010 First-Quarter Results by Segment
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
 
     Sales for U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $1.140 billion in the first quarter, a decrease of 5 percent compared with a year ago. The change in sales reflected the following factors:
     U.S. soup sales for the quarter decreased 3 percent, compared with a 12 percent increase a year ago that was driven by the launches of "Campbell's Select Harvest" soups, "Campbell's V8" premium soups and "Swanson" stock, and increased marketing support across the portfolio.
     The decline in the first quarter of 2010 was driven by the following:
     Further details of the sales results of this segment's other businesses included:
     Operating earnings were $331 million compared with $314 million in the prior-year period. The increase in operating earnings was due to an improvement in gross margin percentage and lower marketing expenses, partially offset by lower sales.
 
Baking and Snacking
     Sales for Baking and Snacking were $530 million in the first quarter, an increase of 4 percent from a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Further details of sales results included the following:
     Operating earnings were $100 million compared with $83 million in the prior-year period. The increase in operating earnings was fueled by margin-driven growth in both Arnott's and Pepperidge Farm and the favorable impact of currency.
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for International Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $374 million for the first quarter, a decrease of 2 percent compared with a year ago. The change in sales reflected the following factors:
 
     Further details of sales results included the following:
     Operating earnings were $44 million compared with $38 million in the year-ago period. The increase in operating earnings was driven by growth in Canada and the Asia Pacific region and the favorable impact of currency.
North America Foodservice
     Sales were $159 million for the first quarter, a decrease of 2 percent compared with a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Sales declined primarily due to continued weakness in the food service sector.
     Operating earnings were $26 million compared with $11 million in the prior period. The prior year included $7 million in costs related to a restructuring program. The remaining increase in operating earnings was primarily due to an improved gross margin percentage, reflecting productivity improvements, including benefits of closing the company's Listowel, Ontario, Canada plant, and lower administrative costs.
Unallocated Corporate Expenses
     Unallocated corporate expenses decreased from $47 million a year ago to $23 million in the current quarter. The decrease was due to $26 million of unrealized losses on commodity hedging included in the prior year.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
     A reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2009 financial information to the reported financial information is attached to this news release.
 
Conference Call
     The company will host a conference call to discuss these results on November 23, 2009 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-866-814-8470 and non-U.S. participants at 1-703-639-1369. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is "Campbell Soup" and the conference leader is Jennifer Driscoll. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at and can be accessed by clicking on the "Shareholder Event / Webcast" banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight December 7, 2009, by dialing 1-888-266-2081 or 1-703-925-2533. The access code is 1412165.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Reporting Segments
     Campbell Soup Company earnings results are reported for the following segments:
     includes the following retail businesses: "Campbell's" brand condensed and ready-to-serve soups, "Swanson" broth and canned poultry businesses, "Prego" pasta sauce, "Pace" Mexican sauce, "Campbell's Chunky" chili, "Campbell's" canned pasta, gravies and beans, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 V-Fusion" juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, "Campbell's" tomato juice, and "Wolfgang Puck" soups, stocks and broths.
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     includes the following businesses: "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products in U.S. retail, "Arnott's" biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific.
Baking and Snacking
     includes the soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Europe, Mexico, Latin America, the Asia Pacific regionas well as the emerging markets of Russia and China, and the retail business in Canada.
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
,
     includes the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
North America Foodservice
About Campbell Soup Company
     Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high-quality foods and simple meals, including soup, baked snacks, and healthy beverages. Founded in
 
1869, the company has a portfolio of market-leading brands, including "Campbell's," "Pepperidge Farm," "Arnott's," and "V8." For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website at .
www.campbellsoup.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" that reflect the company's current expectations about the impact of its future plans and performance on sales, earnings, and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates that could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause the company's actual results to vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement include (1) the impact of strong competitive responses to the company's efforts to leverage its brand power in the market; (2) the risks associated with trade and consumer acceptance of the company's initiatives; (3) the company's ability to realize projected cost savings and benefits; (4) the company's ability to manage changes to its business processes; (5) the increased significance of certain of the company's key trade customers; (6) the impact of fluctuations in the supply or costs of energy and raw and packaging materials; (7) the risks associated with portfolio changes; (8) the uncertainties of litigation; (9) the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, tax rates, interest rates, debt and equity markets, inflation rates, economic conditions and other external factors; (10) the impact of unforeseen business disruptions in one or more of the company's markets due to political instability, civil disobedience, armed hostilities, natural disasters or other calamities; and (11) other factors described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
 
In fiscal 2010, the company adopted and retrospectively applied new accounting guidance related to the calculation of earnings per share. The retrospective application of the provisions resulted in a reduction of previously reported basic and diluted net earnings per share of $.02 and $.01, respectively, for the three-month period ended November 2, 2008.
In fiscal 2009, the company recognized $26 ($16 after tax or $.04 per share) in cost of products sold related to unrealized losses on commodity hedges.
In fiscal 2009, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring related costs in cost of products sold of $7 ($5 after tax or $.01 per share) related to the initiatives announced in April 2008 to improve operational efficiency.
 
In fiscal 2010, the company adopted and retrospectively applied new accounting guidance related to the calculation of earnings per share. The retrospective application of the provisions resulted in a reduction of previously reported diluted net earnings per share of $.01 for the three-month period ended November 2, 2008.
In fiscal 2009, the company recognized $26 ($16 after tax or $.04 per share) in cost of products sold related to unrealized losses on commodity hedges. The losses are included in Unallocated corporate expenses.
In fiscal 2009, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring related costs in cost of products sold of $7 ($5 after tax or $.01 per share) related to the initiatives announced in April 2008 to improve operational efficiency. The restructuring related costs were recognized in the North America Foodservice segment.
 
Certain reclassifications were made to the prior year amounts to conform with the current year presentation.
 
Campbell Soup Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. These non-GAAP financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures.
Items Impacting Gross Margin and Net Earnings
The company believes that financial information excluding certain transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business improves the comparability of year-to-year results. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand its gross margin and earnings results if these transactions are excluded.
The following items impacted gross margin and/or net earnings:
     There were no items in fiscal 2010 that impacted comparability.
 
The tables below reconcile financial information, presented in accordance with GAAP, to financial information excluding certain transactions:
 
 
 


