FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20090629132139.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 25, 2009, the Board of Directors of Campbell Soup Company increased the size of the Board to 16 members and elected Nick Shreiber as a director, effective July 1, 2009. The Board also appointed Mr. Shreiber to the Governance Committee and the Finance and Corporate Development Committee, effective August 1, 2009.
Item 5.02(d)
Mr. Shreiber served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Tetra Pak Group, a Switzerland-based, global leader in packing and processing solutions for food products, from 2000 until his retirement in 2005. He joined Tetra Pak in 1987. Prior to joining Tetra Pak, he was a partner at McKinsey & Company, with responsibility for major industrial and service sector clients in Europe and Latin America. Since retiring from full-time corporate life in early 2006, he has been active in business through management consulting and executive coaching. Mr. Shreiber also spent 15 months as an Executive in Residence at the International Institute for Management Development in Switzerland.
Mr. Shreiber will be paid in accordance with the terms described in the section titled "Director Compensation" that begins on page 46 of Campbell Soup Company's proxy statement that was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 9, 2008.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On June 25, 2009, the Board of Directors of Campbell Soup Company approved an amendment to Article II, Section 1 of the company's By-Laws, effective July 1, 2009, to change the size of the Board from 15 to 16 directors. A copy of the By-Laws, as amended, is filed as Exhibit 3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
(Registrant)
CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY
Date: June 29, 2009
 

Exhibit 3
 
     Section 1. The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation in New Jersey, or at such other place, within or without New Jersey, as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, and on a date and at such time as may be fixed by the Board of Directors, for the purpose of electing directors of the Corporation, and for the transaction of such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting.
     Section 2. Special meetings of the stockholders shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation in New Jersey, or at such other place, within or without New Jersey, as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, upon the call of the Chairman of the Board or of the President, or upon the call of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors, and shall be called upon the written request of stockholders of record holding a majority of the capital stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at such meeting.
     Section 3. Notice of the time and place of every meeting of stockholders shall be delivered personally or mailed at least ten but not more than sixty calendar days before the meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
     Section 4. The holders of record of a majority of the shares of the capital stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders. If there be no such quorum present, the holders of a majority of such shares so present or represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until such quorum shall have been obtained, when any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as first convened, had there been a quorum. Once a quorum is established, the stockholders present in person or by proxy may continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
     Section 5. The Board of Directors shall in advance of each meeting of stockholders appoint one or more inspectors of election, to act unless the performance of the inspector's function shall be unanimously waived by the stockholders present in person or represented by proxy at such meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall first take and subscribe an oath or affirmation to execute the duties of inspector as prescribed by law at such meeting with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability. The inspector or inspectors shall take charge of
 
the polls and shall make a certificate of the results of the vote taken. No director or candidate for the office of director shall be appointed as such inspector.
     Section 6. All meetings of the stockholders shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, or if he shall not be present, by the Vice Chairman of the Board. If neither the Chairman of the Board nor the Vice Chairman of the Board shall be present, such meeting shall be presided over by the President. If none of the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board and the President shall be present, such meeting shall be presided over by a Vice President, or if none shall be present, then by a Chairman to be elected by the holders of a majority of the shares present or represented at the meeting.
     The Secretary of the Corporation, or if he is not present, an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, if present, shall act as secretary of the meeting. If neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present, then the Chairman shall appoint a Secretary of the meeting.
     Section 7. The Board of Directors shall fix in advance a date, not exceeding sixty nor less than ten calendar days preceding the date of any meeting of the stockholders or the date for the payment of any dividend, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of stock shall go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at any such meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend, or any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of stock, and in such case only stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to such notice of and to vote at such meeting, or to receive payment of such dividend, or allotment of rights, or exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the Corporation after any such record date fixed as aforesaid.
     Section 1. The business and property of the Corporation shall be managed and controlled by a board of sixteen directors. This number may be changed from time to time by amendment of these By-Laws, but the term of office of no director shall be shortened after his or her election by reduction in the number of directors.
     Upon election each director shall be the holder of at least two hundred shares of the Corporation's capital stock. Within one year of election, each director shall be the holder of at least two thousand shares of capital stock and within three years of election shall be the holder of at least six thousand shares of capital stock. In the event the number of shares of capital stock is increased at any time after February 11, 1997, by a stock split, stock dividend, or by any other extraordinary distribution of shares, the above share ownership requirements shall be proportionately adjusted. The director, upon ceasing to hold the required number of shares, shall cease to be a director.
     The directors shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until their successors are elected and shall have qualified.
     Section 2. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such times and at such places as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors. Special
 
meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time upon call of the Chairman of the Board or of the Vice Chairman of the Board or of the President or of three directors. Oral, telegraphic or written notice of the time and place of a special meeting shall be duly served on, or given or sent or mailed to, each director not less than two calendar days before the meeting. An organizational meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held, of which no notice shall be necessary, as soon as convenient after the annual meeting of the stockholders. Notice need not be given of regular meetings of the Board of Directors held at the times fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors. Meetings may be held at any time without notice if all of the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in writing.
     Section 3. Six members of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall have been obtained, when any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as first convened, had there been a quorum.
     Section 4. Any vacancy occurring among the directors may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining members of the Board of Directors at the time in office; provided that in case of an increase in the number of directors pursuant to an amendment to these By-Laws made by the stockholders, the stockholders may fill the vacancy or vacancies so created at the meeting at which such amendment is effected or may authorize the Board of Directors to fill such vacancy or vacancies.
     Section 5. The Board of Directors, by an affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors at the time in office, may appoint an Executive Committee to consist of such directors as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. The Executive Committee shall have and may exercise, when the Board of Directors is not in session, all of the powers vested in the Board of Directors, except as otherwise provided by law. The Board of Directors shall have the power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve, the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee may make rules for the conduct of its business and may appoint such committees and assistants as it shall from time to time deem necessary, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide. A majority of the members of the Executive Committee at the time in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. A record shall be kept of all proceedings of the Executive Committee, which shall be submitted to the Board of Directors at or before the next succeeding meeting of the Board of Directors.
     Section 6. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more other committees, to consist of such number of the directors and to have such powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. The Board of Directors shall have power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve, any such committee. A majority of any such committee may determine its action and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide.
     Section 7. In addition to reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred in attending meetings or otherwise in connection with his or her attention to the affairs of the Corporation, each director as such, as Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board and as a member of the Executive Committee or of any other committee of the Board of Directors, shall be entitled to receive such
 
remuneration as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors, in the form either of fees for attendance at meetings of the Board of Directors and committees thereof or annual retainers, or both; but no director who receives a salary or other remuneration as an employee of the Corporation or any subsidiary thereof shall receive any additional remuneration as a director or member of any committee of the Board of Directors.
     Section 1. The Board of Directors, at its organizational meeting or as soon as may be after the election of directors held in each year, shall elect one of its number Chairman of the Board and one of its number President, and shall also elect a Secretary and a Treasurer, and from time to time may elect or appoint one of its number Vice Chairman of the Board, one or more Vice Presidents, a Controller, and such Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and other officers, agents and employees as it may deem proper. More than one office may be held by the same person.
     Section 2. The term of office of all officers shall be until the next organizational meeting of the Board of Directors or until their respective successors are elected and have qualified, but any officer may be removed from office at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors at the time in office.
     Any other employee of the Corporation, whether appointed by the Board of Directors or otherwise, may be removed at any time by the Board of Directors or by any committee or officer or employee upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the By-Laws or by the Board of Directors.
     The Board of Directors shall have power to fill for the unexpired term any vacancy which shall occur in any office by reason of death, resignation, removal or otherwise.
     Section 3. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and shall perform such other duties as shall from time to time be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
     The Vice Chairman of the Board shall in the absence of the Chairman of the Board preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and shall perform such other duties as shall from time to time be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board.
     The President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall perform such duties as are usually performed by that officer; he shall, in the absence of the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board, preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors; and shall perform such other duties as shall from time to time be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
     The other officers of the Corporation shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as generally pertain to their offices respectively, as well as such powers and duties as shall from time to time be conferred by the Board of Directors.
 
     Section 1. The Corporation shall indemnify to the full extent from time to time permitted by law any present, former or future director, officer, or employee ("Corporate Agent") made, or threatened to be made, a party to, or a witness or other participant in, any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, arbitrative, legislative, investigative, or of any other kind, including by or in the right of the Corporation ("Proceeding"), by reason of the fact that such person is or was a Corporate Agent of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation or, while serving as a Corporate Agent of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation, serves or served another enterprise (including, without limitation, any sole proprietorship, association, corporation, partnership, joint venture or trust), whether or not for profit, at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent thereof (including service with respect to any employee benefit plan of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation), against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, penalties, excise taxes and amounts paid in settlement, actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such Proceeding or any appeal therein. No indemnification pursuant to this Article IV shall be required with respect to any settlement or other nonadjudicated disposition of any threatened or pending Proceeding unless the Corporation has given its prior consent to such settlement or other disposition.
     Section 2. Expenses incurred in connection with a Proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation for any Corporate Agent of the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such Proceeding promptly upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation. Such an undertaking shall not, however, be required of a nonparty witness.
     Section 3. The foregoing indemnification and advancement of expenses shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which any person indemnified may be entitled.
     Section 4. The rights provided to any person by this Article IV shall be enforceable against the Corporation by such person, who shall be presumed to have relied upon it in serving or continuing to serve as a Corporate Agent. No elimination of or amendment to this Article IV shall deprive any person of rights hereunder arising out of alleged or actual occurrences, acts or failures to act occurring prior to such elimination or amendment. The rights provided to any person by this Article IV shall inure to the benefit of such person's legal representative and shall be applicable to Proceedings commenced or continuing after the adoption of this Article IV, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after such adoption.
     Section 5. The Corporation's Board of Directors may from time to time delegate
(i) to a Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation or to independent legal counsel the authority to determine whether a Director or officer of the Corporation, and
(ii) to one or more officers of the Corporation the authority to determine whether an employee of the Corporation or any subsidiary, other than a Director or officer of the Corporation,
 
is entitled to indemnification or advancement of expenses pursuant to, and in accordance with, applicable law and this Article IV, subject to such conditions and limitations as the Board of Directors may prescribe.
     The fiscal year shall begin in each calendar year on the Monday following the Sunday which is nearest to July 31, and shall end on the Sunday which is nearest to July 31 of the following year.
     The Board of Directors shall provide a suitable seal, bearing the name of the Corporation, which seal shall be in the charge of the Secretary; provided that the use of a facsimile of such seal is hereby authorized.
     The Board of Directors shall have the power to make, amend and repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation by a vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors at the time in office at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors. The stockholders, by a majority of the votes cast at a meeting of the stockholders, may adopt, alter, amend or repeal the By-Laws, whether made by the Board of Directors or otherwise.


