FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20090911083811.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On September 11, 2009, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter and year ended August 2, 2009, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)   Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today reported net earnings for the quarter ended Aug. 2, 2009 of $69 million, or $0.20 per share, compared with $89 million, or $0.24 per share, in the year-ago period. The current quarter's reported net earnings included adjustments related to commodity hedging and a non-cash impairment charge related to certain European trademarks. Excluding all items impacting comparability in both periods, adjusted net earnings rose 11 percent to $107 million compared with $96 million in the prior year's quarter, and adjusted net earnings per share grew by 15 percent to $0.30 in the current quarter compared with $0.26 in the year-ago quarter. Reflecting a stronger U.S. dollar, adjusted net earnings per share for the quarter were negatively impacted by $0.02 due to currency translation.
CAMDEN, N.J., Sept. 11, 2009Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We completed the year with a solid fourth quarter and delivered a strong year of earnings growth. We were able to overcome currency headwinds and other macroeconomic challenges to achieve adjusted earnings per share growth within our long-term target of between 5 and 7 percent. We successfully introduced innovative new products, including Select Harvest' soups and Swanson' stock, and delivered strong sales growth across our
 
entire U.S. soup portfolio and sauces businesses. We delivered an outstanding year in our Asia Pacific business, produced a very solid year in Pepperidge Farm and continued to advance our plans in the emerging markets of Russia and China. We also improved our gross margins through a combination of pricing actions and productivity improvements and generated more than $1 billion in cash flow from operations."
     Conant concluded, "Over the last seven years, we have achieved consistent and sustainable business performance while improving our prospects for the future through investments in products, infrastructure and our geographic footprint. We have strong plans in place for the upcoming year and a broad slate of innovation across our portfolio of leading brands, especially in our U.S. soup business."
Fiscal 2010 Guidance Consistent with Long-term Growth Targets
     Campbell provided guidance for fiscal 2010 adjusted net earnings per share growth of between 5 and 7 percent from the fiscal 2009 adjusted base of $2.22. The company expects a rise in net sales of 3 to 4 percent and an increase in adjusted earnings before interest and taxes of 5 to 6 percent. This guidance is consistent with Campbell's long-term growth targets. The company anticipates benefits from its ongoing efforts to drive product innovation and expand margins through reduced costs and increased productivity, offset in part by the negative impact of an estimated $0.06 per share in increased pension expense.
Fourth-Quarter Financial Results
     In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, as a result of an annual review of intangible assets, the company recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $67 million ($47 million after tax or $0.13 per share) related to certain European trademarks. The current and prior quarter's net earnings included additional items that impacted comparability. These items are summarized below:
 
     A detailed reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2009 and 2008 financial information to the reported information is attached to this news release.
     For the fourth quarter, which included 13 weeks compared with 14 weeks in the year-ago quarter, sales decreased 11 percent to $1.528 billion. The change in sales for the quarter reflects the following factors:
Additional Fourth-Quarter Financial Details
 
Full Year Financial Results
     The current and prior year's net earnings included items that impacted comparability. These items are summarized below:
 
 
     Net earnings for fiscal 2009 were $736 million, or $2.06 per share, compared with $1.165 billion, or $3.06 per share, in the prior fiscal year.
     Excluding items impacting comparability, adjusted net earnings were $794 million for fiscal 2009 compared with $797 million in the prior fiscal year. Adjusted net earnings per share were $2.22 for the current fiscal year, an increase of 6 percent, compared with $2.09 for the prior fiscal year. Currency translation negatively impacted adjusted net earnings by $0.09 per share.
     For fiscal 2009, which had one less week than fiscal 2008, net sales were $7.586 billion, a decrease of 5 percent. The change in sales for the year reflects the following factors:
 
Additional Full Year Financial Details
 
Summary of Fiscal 2009 Fourth-Quarter Results by Segment
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Fourth-quarter sales for U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $650 million, a decrease of 3 percent. The change in sales reflects the following factors:
     On a reported basis, U.S. soup sales for the quarter increased 1 percent. Excluding the impact of one less week and the acquisition of "Wolfgang Puck" soups, broths and stocks, U.S. soup sales increased 7 percent, driven by the following:
Further details of the sales results of this segment's other businesses include:
 
     Fourth-quarter operating earnings for the segment totaled $148 million compared with $124 million in the prior-year period. The increase in operating earnings was primarily due to lower marketing expense and an improved gross margin percentage, as pricing and productivity improvements exceeded cost inflation, partly offset by the impact of one less week.
     For fiscal 2009, U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages sales increased 3 percent to $3.784 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     For the year, on a reported basis, U.S. soup sales increased 5 percent. Excluding the impact of one less week and the acquisition of "Wolfgang Puck" soups, broths and stocks, U.S. soup sales increased 5 percent, driven by the following:
     Operating earnings increased to $927 million compared with $891 million in the year-ago period, primarily due to pricing net of increased promotional spending, and productivity improvements, which more than offset cost inflation and lower volumes.
Baking and Snacking
     Fourth-quarter sales for Baking and Snacking were $466 million, a decrease of 13 percent from a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
 
     Further details of sales results include the following:
     Fourth-quarter operating earnings decreased to $69 million compared with $72 million a year ago. The decrease in operating earnings was due to the negative impact of currency, one less week and lower earnings in Arnott's, partially offset by increased earnings in Pepperidge Farm.
     For fiscal 2009, sales in this segment decreased by 10 percent to $1.846 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings were $262 million compared with $120 million in the year-ago period. The current year included $3 million in costs related to initiatives to improve operational efficiency and long-term profitability compared with $144 million in such costs in the prior year. Excluding these items, operating earnings increased, as earnings growth in Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's was mostly offset by the negative impact of currency and one less week.
 
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Fourth-quarter sales for International Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $289 million, a decrease of 20 percent compared to a year ago. The change in sales reflects the following factors:
     Further details of sales results include the following:
     The segment had a fourth-quarter operating loss of $48 million, compared with operating earnings of $27 million in the year-ago period. The current year included an impairment charge of $67 million related to certain European trademarks. The prior year included $3 million in costs associated with restructuring initiatives. Excluding these items, operating earnings declined, primarily due to the impact of currency, the impact of one less week and costs associated with establishing businesses in Russia and China, partially offset by gains in Canada.
     For fiscal 2009, sales decreased 16 percent to $1.357 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
 
     Operating earnings decreased to $69 million from $179 million in the year-ago period. The current year included an impairment charge of $67 million related to certain European trademarks. The prior year included $9 million of restructuring charges. Excluding these items, operating earnings declined, primarily due to the impact of currency and costs associated with establishing businesses in Russia and China.
North America Foodservice
     Fourth-quarter sales were $123 million, a decrease of 16 percent. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings were $0 in both the current and prior-year quarter. The prior-year quarter included $7 million of costs related to initiatives to improve operational efficiency and long-term profitability. Excluding these items, operating earnings declined due to lower volumes as the foodservice sector continued to be negatively impacted by the economy.
     For fiscal 2009, sales decreased 9 percent to $599 million. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings decreased to $34 million from $40 million in the prior-year period. Costs related to initiatives to improve operational efficiency and long-term
 
profitability totaled $19 million in the current year compared with $29 million in the prior period. Excluding these items, earnings decreased reflecting the reduction in sales.
Unallocated Corporate Expenses
     Unallocated corporate expenses decreased to $24 million in the current quarter from $35 million a year ago. The current year included a favorable net adjustment of $14 million related to commodity hedges.
     For the year, unallocated corporate expenses decreased to $107 million from $132 million. The decrease was primarily due to lower expenses associated with the company's North American SAP implementation.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
     A reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2009 and 2008 financial information to the reported financial information is attached to this news release.
Conference Call
     Campbell will host a conference call to discuss these results on September 11, 2009 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-866-814-1913 and non-U.S. participants at 1-703-639-1357. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is "Campbell Soup" and the conference leader is Jennifer Driscoll. The call and accompanying slides also will be broadcast live over the Internet at and can be accessed by clicking on the "Shareholder Event / Webcast" banner. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight, September 18, 2009 at 1-888-266-2081 or 1-703-925-2533. The access code is 1387520.
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
Reporting Segments
     Campbell Soup Company earnings results are reported for the following segments:
     includes the following retail businesses: "Campbell's" brand condensed and ready-to-serve soups, "Swanson" broth and canned poultry businesses, "Prego" pasta sauce, "Pace" Mexican sauce, "Campbell's Chunky" chili, "Campbell's" canned pasta, gravies and beans, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 V-Fusion" juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, "Campbell's" tomato juice and "Wolfgang Puck" soups, stocks and broths.
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
 
     includes the following businesses: "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products in U.S. retail, "Arnott's" biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific, and "Arnott's" salty snacks in Australia.
Baking and Snacking
     includes the soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Europe, Mexico, Latin America, the Asia Pacific region, as well as the emerging markets of Russia and China, and the retail business in Canada.
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     includes the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
North America Foodservice
About Campbell Soup Company
Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high-quality foods and simple meals, including soup, baked snacks, and healthy beverages. Founded in 1869, the company has a portfolio of market-leading brands, including "Campbell's," "Pepperidge Farm," "Arnott's," and "V8." For more information on the company, visit Campbell's website at .
www.campbellsoup.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" that reflect the company's current expectations about its future plans and performance, including statements concerning the impact of marketing investments and strategies, pricing, share repurchase, new product introductions and innovation, productivity and cost-saving initiatives, quality improvements, inflation, commodity hedging, currency translation and portfolio strategies, including acquisitions and divestitures, on sales, earnings, and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates that could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause the company's actual results to vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement include (1) the impact of strong competitive responses to the company's efforts to leverage its brand power in the market; (2) the risks associated with trade and consumer acceptance of the company's initiatives; (3) the company's ability to realize projected cost savings and productivity benefits; (4) the company's ability to manage changes to its business processes; (5) the increased significance of certain of the company's key trade customers; (6) the impact of fluctuations in the supply or costs of
 
energy and raw and packaging materials; (7) the risks associated with portfolio changes; (8) the uncertainties of litigation; (9) the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, tax rates, interest rates, debt and equity markets, inflation rates, economic conditions and other external factors; (10) the impact of unforeseen business disruptions in one or more of the company's markets due to political instability, civil disobedience, armed hostilities, natural disasters or other calamities; and (11) other factors described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
 
In fiscal 2009, the company recognized in cost of products sold a $14 ($9 after tax or $.03 per share) favorable net adjustment on commodity hedge positions.
In fiscal 2009, as part of the company's annual review of intangible assets, a non-cash impairment charge of $67 ($47 after tax or $.13 per share) was recorded in Other expenses/(income) related to certain European trademarks, primarily in Germany and Nordic, used in the International Soup, Sauces and Beverages segment.
In fiscal 2008, the company recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $3 and expenses in cost of products sold of $7 (aggregate impact of $7 after tax or $.02 per share) related to the initiatives announced in April 2008 to improve operational efficiency.
The period ended August 2, 2009 had 13 weeks. The period ended August 3, 2008 had 14 weeks.
 
In fiscal 2009, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring related costs in cost of products sold of $22 ($15 after tax or $.04 per share) related to the initiatives announced in April 2008 to improve operational efficiency. In fiscal 2008, the company recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $175 and $7 of expenses in cost of products sold (aggregate impact of $107 after tax or $.28 per share) related to the initiatives.
In fiscal 2009, as part of the company's annual review of intangible assets, a non-cash impairment charge of $67 ($47 after tax or $.13 per share) was recorded in Other expenses/(income) related to certain European trademarks, primarily in Germany and Nordic, used in the International Soup, Sauces and Beverages segment.
In fiscal 2009, the company recognized a $4 (or $.01 per share) tax benefit in discontinued operations related to the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business.
In fiscal 2008, the company recognized a $13 (or $.03 per share) tax benefit in continuing operations related to the favorable resolution of a state tax contingency.
In fiscal 2008, the company recognized an after-tax gain of $462 ($1.21 per share) in earnings from discontinued operations from the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business.
Fiscal 2009 had 52 weeks. Fiscal 2008 had 53 weeks.
The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal due to rounding.
 
In fiscal 2009, the company recognized in cost of products sold a $14 ($9 after tax or $.03 per share) favorable net adjustment on commodity hedge positions. The favorable net adjustment is included in Unallocated corporate expenses.
In fiscal 2009, as part of the company's annual review of intangible assets, a non-cash impairment charge of $67 ($47 after tax or $.13 per share) was recorded in Other expenses/(income) related to certain European trademarks, primarily in Germany and Nordic, used in the International Soup, Sauces and Beverages segment.
In fiscal 2008, the company recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $3 and expenses in cost of products sold of $7 (aggregate impact of $7 after tax or $.02 per share) related to the initiatives announced in April 2008 to improve operational efficiency. The restructuring charge and related costs were recognized in the following segments: International Soup, Sauces and Beverages  $3, and North America Foodservice  $7.
The period ended August 2, 2009 had 13 weeks. The period ended August 3, 2008 had 14 weeks.
 
In fiscal 2009, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring related costs in cost of products sold of $22 ($15 after tax or $.04 per share) related to the initiatives announced in April 2008 to improve operational efficiency. The restructuring related costs were recognized in the following segments: North America Foodservice  $19, and Baking and Snacking  $3. In fiscal 2008, the company recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $175 and $7 of expenses in cost of products sold (aggregate impact of $107 after tax or $.28 per share) related to the initiatives. The restructuring charge and related costs were recognized in the following segments: Baking and Snacking  $144, International Soup, Sauces and Beverages  $9, and North America Foodservice  $29.
In fiscal 2009, as part of the company's annual review of intangible assets, a non-cash impairment charge of $67 ($47 after tax or $.13 per share) was recorded in Other expenses/(income) related to certain European trademarks, primarily in Germany and Nordic, used in the International Soup, Sauces and Beverages segment.
In fiscal 2009, the company recognized a $4 (or $.01 per share) tax benefit in discontinued operations related to the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business.
In fiscal 2008, the company recognized a $13 (or $.03 per share) tax benefit in continuing operations related to the favorable resolution of a state tax contingency.
In fiscal 2008, the company recognized an after-tax gain of $462 ($1.21 per share) in earnings from discontinued operations from the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business.
Fiscal 2009 had 52 weeks. Fiscal 2008 had 53 weeks.
The sum of the individual per share amounts does not equal due to rounding.
 
 
Campbell Soup Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. These non-GAAP financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures.
Net Debt
The company believes that net debt is a non-GAAP measure that provides additional meaningful comparisons between the company's financial position at August 2, 2009 and August 3, 2008, and also a useful perspective on the financial condition of the business. Interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents partially offsets interest expense on debt. Cash and cash equivalents are available to repay outstanding debt upon maturity.
The table below summarizes information on total debt and cash and cash equivalents:
Items Impacting Gross Margin and Net Earnings
The company believes that financial information excluding certain transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business improves the comparability of year-to-year results. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand its gross margin and earnings results if these transactions are excluded.
The following items impacted gross margin and/or net earnings:
 
 
The tables below reconcile financial information, presented in accordance with GAAP, to financial information excluding certain transactions:
 
 


