FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20101123074220.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 23, 2010, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended October 31, 2010, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today reported its results for the first quarter of fiscal 2011.
CAMDEN, N.J., Nov. 23, 2010Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
First-Quarter Summary
          Net earnings for the quarter ended Oct. 31, 2010, were $279 million, or $0.82 per share, compared with $304 million, or $0.87 per share, in the prior year.
          Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and CEO, said, "In a challenging consumer spending environment, we delivered mixed results in our U.S. Soup business this quarter. Condensed cooking soups performed well, with sales up 7 percent, as our marketing efforts continued to resonate with consumers seeking convenient simple meals for their families. The key negative factor impacting our first-quarter results in U.S. soup was the performance of our ready-to-serve and condensed eating soups, where increased promotional spending did not produce the planned volume gains. This was due in part to even steeper promotions by competitors, which we chose not to match.
          "We intend to remain competitive in U.S. Soup through the height of the soup season, and it's likely that margin pressures will persist through the second quarter. In the second half, we plan to place greater focus on advertising and brand-building initiatives in our marketing efforts, as we adjust our promotional activity to achieve improved price realization."
          Conant concluded, "In recent years, we've shown success in our healthy beverages and baked snacks businesses, which represent a significant portion of our
 
portfolio. This year, our beverages business started off with another quarter of double-digit growth, driven by our continued innovation of V8 V-Fusion' beverages and effective advertising. Within baked snacks, our Pepperidge Farm business delivered solid performance, driven by innovations such as Deli Flats' rolls, Baked Naturals' crackers and the expansion of the Goldfish' brand. In both healthy beverages and baked snacks, our performance was driven by strong innovation, compelling advertising and effective promotional activities."
Fiscal 2011 Guidance
          As previously announced, including an estimated 1-point favorable impact from currency, Campbell expects net sales growth of 1 to 3 percent, EBIT comparable to the adjusted EBIT in the prior year and EPS growth of 2 to 4 percent from the fiscal 2010 adjusted base of $2.47.
          A detailed reconciliation of the fiscal 2010 adjusted financial information to the 2010 reported financial information is included at the end of this news release.
First-Quarter Results
          For the first quarter, sales decreased 1 percent to $2.172 billion. The change in sales for the quarter reflected the following factors:
First-Quarter Financial Details
 
Summary of Fiscal 2011 First-Quarter Results by Segment
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
          Sales for U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $1.103 billion for the first quarter, a decrease of 3 percent compared with a year ago. The change in sales was due to increased promotional spending.
          For the quarter, U.S. Soup sales decreased 5 percent.
          Beverage sales increased 10 percent driven by double-digit volume gains.
 
          Sales of "Prego" pasta sauce declined, as higher promotional spending was partly offset by volume gains. "Pace" Mexican sauce declined due to increased competitive activity.
          Operating earnings were $295 million, compared with $331 million in the prior-year period. The decrease in operating earnings was primarily due to increased promotional spending and cost inflation, partly offset by productivity improvements.
Baking and Snacking
          Sales for Baking and Snacking were $544 million in the first quarter, an increase of 3 percent from a year ago. The change in sales reflected the following factors:
          Further details of sales results included the following:
 
          For the quarter, operating earnings were $100 million, comparable to the prior-year period as the favorable impact of currency and higher earnings in Pepperidge Farm were offset by lower earnings in Australia.
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
          Sales for International Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $372 million for the first quarter, a decrease of 1 percent compared with a year ago. The change in sales reflected the following factors:
          Excluding the impact of currency, solid gains in Europe and the Asia Pacific region were primarily offset by declines in Latin America.
          Operating earnings were $51 million, compared with $44 million in the year-ago period. The increase in operating earnings was driven by growth in Europe.
North America Foodservice
          Sales were $153 million for the first quarter, a decrease of 4 percent compared with a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
          Reflecting the lower sales, operating earnings declined to $23 million compared with $26 million in the prior-year quarter.
 
Unallocated Corporate Expenses
          Unallocated corporate expenses increased to $25 million in the current quarter from $23 million a year ago.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
          A detailed reconciliation of the fiscal 2010 adjusted financial information to the 2010 reported financial information is included at the end of this news release.
Conference Call
          Campbell will host a conference call to discuss these results on Nov. 23, 2010, at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-866-847-7861 and non-U.S. participants at 1-703-639-1428. Participants should call at least ten minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is "Campbell Soup" and the conference leader is Jennifer Driscoll. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at and can be accessed by clicking on the "News & Events" button. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight Dec. 7, 2010, at 1-888-266-2081 or 1-703-925-2533. The access code is 1485158.
investor.campbellsoupcompany.com
Reporting Segments
          Campbell Soup Company earnings results are reported for the following segments:
          includes the following retail businesses: "Campbell's" condensed and ready-to-serve soups, "Swanson" broth, stock and canned poultry businesses, "Prego" pasta sauce, "Pace" Mexican sauce, "Campbell's" canned pasta, gravies and beans, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 V-Fusion" juices, "V8 V-Fusion + Tea" beverages, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, and "Campbell's" tomato juice.
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
          includes the following businesses: "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products in U.S. retail and "Arnott's" biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific.
Baking and Snacking
          includes the soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Europe, Mexico, Latin America, the Asia Pacific region, as well as the emerging markets of Russia and China, and the retail business in Canada.
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
 
          includes the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
North America Foodservice
About Campbell Soup Company
Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high-quality foods and simple meals, including soup and sauces, baked snacks and healthy beverages. Founded in 1869, the company has a portfolio of market-leading brands, including "Campbell's," "Pepperidge Farm," "Arnott's" and "V8." Through its corporate social responsibility program, the company strives to make a positive impact in the workplace, in the marketplace and in the communities in which it operates. Campbell is a member of the Standard & Poor's 500 and the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes. For more information, visit .
www.campbellsoup.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" that reflect the company's current expectations about the impact of its future plans and performance on sales, earnings, and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates that could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause the company's actual results to vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement include (1) the impact of strong competitive responses to the company's efforts to leverage its brand power in the market; (2) the risks associated with trade and consumer acceptance of the company's initiatives; (3) the company's ability to realize projected cost savings and benefits; (4) the company's ability to manage changes to its business processes; (5) the increased significance of certain of the company's key trade customers; (6) the impact of fluctuations in the supply or costs of energy and raw and packaging materials; (7) the impact of portfolio changes; (8) the uncertainties of litigation; (9) the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, tax rates, interest rates, debt and equity markets, inflation rates, economic conditions and other external factors; (10) the impact of unforeseen business disruptions in one or more of the company's markets due to political instability, civil disobedience, armed hostilities, natural disasters or other calamities; and (11) other factors described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update
 
the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
 
 
 
 
Campbell Soup Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. These non-GAAP financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures.
Items Impacting Earnings
The company believes that financial information excluding certain transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business improves the comparability of year-to-year results. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand its earnings results if these transactions are excluded.
The following items impacted earnings in fiscal 2010:
The table below reconciles financial information, presented in accordance with GAAP, to financial information excluding certain transactions:


