FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20100701135431.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01  Other Events
On June 30, 2010, Campbell Soup Company ("Campbell") announced an offering of $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes bearing interest at the rate of 3.050% per annum, due July 15, 2017 (the "Notes").
Campbell may redeem some or all of the Notes at any time on the terms specified in the Notes. The Notes are subject to customary event of default provisions.
The Notes were offered and sold pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") dated June 30, 2010 between Campbell and Barclays Capital Inc., as representative of the several underwriters named therein, under Campbell's automatic shelf registration statement (the "Registration Statement") on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-155626) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 24, 2008. Campbell has filed with the SEC a prospectus supplement, dated June 30, 2010, together with the accompanying prospectus, dated November 24, 2008, relating to the offering and sale of the Notes. The Notes are expected to be issued on July 6, 2010 pursuant to the Indenture dated as of November 24, 2008 between Campbell and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee, which was filed with the Registration Statement.
The above description of the Underwriting Agreement and the Notes is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Underwriting Agreement and the form of Note, each of which is incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibits 1.1 and 4.1, respectively.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION VERSION
From time to time, Campbell Soup Company, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), may enter into one or more underwriting agreements in the form of Annex A hereto that incorporate by reference these Standard Provisions (collectively with these Standard Provisions, an "Underwriting Agreement") that provide for the sale of the securities designated in such Underwriting Agreement (the "Securities") to the several Underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters"), for whom the Underwriter(s) named therein shall act as representative (the "Representative"). The Underwriting Agreement, including these Standard Provisions, is sometimes referred to herein as this "Agreement". The Securities will be issued pursuant to an indenture (the "Indenture") dated as of November 24, 2008 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the "Trustee").
1. . The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Securities Act"), a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-155626), including a prospectus (the "Basic Prospectus"), relating to the debt securities to be issued from time to time by the Company. The Company has also filed, or proposes to file, with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act a prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Securities (the "Prospectus Supplement"). The registration statement, as amended at the time it became effective, including the information, if any, deemed pursuant to Rule 430A, 430B or 430C under the Securities Act to be part of the registration statement at the time of its effectiveness, is referred to herein as the "Registration Statement"; and as used herein, the term "Prospectus" means the Basic Prospectus as supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement in the form first used (or made available upon request of purchasers pursuant to Rule 173 under the Securities Act) in connection with confirmation of sales of the Securities and the term "Preliminary Prospectus" means the preliminary Prospectus Supplement together with the Basic Prospectus. If the Company has filed an abbreviated registration statement pursuant to Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act (the "Rule 462 Registration Statement"), then any reference herein to the term "Registration Statement" shall be deemed to include such Rule 462 Registration Statement. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus. References herein to the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein. The terms "supplement", "amendment" and "amend" as used herein as used herein with respect to the Registration Statement, any Preliminary
Registration Statement
Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include any documents filed by the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the "Exchange Act") subsequent to the date of the Underwriting Agreement which are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Effective Time" means the effective date of the Registration Statement with respect to the offering of Securities, as determined for the Company pursuant to Section 11 of the Securities Act and Item 512 of Regulation S-K, as applicable.
At or prior to the time when sales of the Securities will be first made (the "Time of Sale"), the Company will prepare certain information (collectively, the "Time of Sale Information") which information will be identified in Schedule 3 to the Underwriting Agreement for such offering of Securities as constituting part of the Time of Sale Information.
2. . (a) The Company agrees to issue and sell the Securities to the several Underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement, and each Underwriter, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements set forth herein and subject to the conditions set forth herein, agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective principal amount of Securities set forth opposite such Underwriter's name in the Underwriting Agreement at the purchase price set forth in the Underwriting Agreement.
Purchase of the Securities by the Underwriters
(b) Payment for and delivery of the Securities will be made at the time and place set forth in the Underwriting Agreement. The time and date of such payment and delivery is referred to herein as the "Closing Date".
(c) The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement are acting solely in the capacity of an arm's length contractual counterparty to the Company with respect to any offering of Securities contemplated hereby (including in connection with determining the terms of the offering) and not as a financial advisor or a fiduciary to, or an agent of, the Company or any other person. Additionally, no such Underwriter is advising the Company or any other person as to any legal, tax, investment, accounting or regulatory matters in any jurisdiction. The Company shall consult with its own advisors concerning such matters and shall be responsible for making its own independent investigation and appraisal of the transactions contemplated hereby, and such Underwriters shall have no responsibility or liability to the Company with respect thereto. Any review by such Underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement of the Company, the transactions contemplated thereby or other matters relating to such transactions will be performed solely for the benefit of the Underwriters and shall not be on behalf of the Company.
 
3. . The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
(a) . The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement" as defined under Rule 405 of the Securities Act that has been filed with the Commission not earlier than three years prior to the date hereof; and no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of such registration statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act has been received by the Company. No order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued by the Commission and to the Company's knowledge, no proceeding for that purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act against the Company or related to the offering has been initiated or threatened by the Commission; as of the Effective Time, the Registration Statement complied in all material respects with the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Trust Indenture Act"), and did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading; and as of the date of the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto and as of the Closing Date, the Prospectus did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to (i) that part of the Registration Statement that constitutes the Statement of Eligibility and Qualification (Form T-1) of the Trustee under the Trust Indenture Act or (ii) any statements or omissions in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representative expressly for use therein.
Registration Statement and Prospectus
provided
(b) . The Time of Sale Information, at the Time of Sale and at the Closing Date did not and will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representative expressly for use in such Time of Sale Information. No statement of material fact included in the Prospectus has been omitted from the Time of Sale Information and no statement of material fact included in the Time of Sale Information that is required to be included in the Prospectus has been omitted therefrom.
Time of Sale Information
provided
(c) . The Company (including its agents and representatives, other than the Underwriters in their capacity as such) has not prepared, made, used, authorized, approved or referred to and will not prepare, make, use, authorize, approve or refer to any "written communication" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) that constitutes an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy the Securities (each such communication by the Company or its agents and
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 
representatives (other than a communication referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) below) an "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus") other than (i) any document not constituting a prospectus pursuant to Section 2(a)(10)(a) of the Securities Act or Rule 134 under the Securities Act, (ii) the Preliminary Prospectus, (iii) the Prospectus, (iv) the documents listed on Schedule 3 to the Underwriting Agreement as constituting the Time of Sale Information and (v) any electronic road show or other written communications, in each case approved in advance by the Representative. Each such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, has been or will be (within the time period specified in Rule 433) filed in accordance with the Securities Act (to the extent required thereby) and, when taken together with the Preliminary Prospectus accompanying, or delivered prior to delivery of, or filed prior to the first use of such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in each such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representative expressly for use in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
provided
(d) . The documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the Time of Sale Information, when filed with the Commission, conformed or will conform, as the case may be, in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
(e) . The issue and sale of the Securities and the compliance by the Company with all of the provisions of the Securities, the Indenture and this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions herein contemplated will not conflict with or result in a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, any material indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which the Company is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company is subject, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, or the By-Laws of the Company or any statute or any order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its properties, which conflict, breach, default or violation would have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries.
No Violation or Default
(f) . No consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any court or governmental agency or body of the United States of America or the State of New Jersey is required for the issuance and sale of the Securities or the consummation by the Company of the transactions
No Consents Required
 
contemplated by this Agreement or the Indenture except such as have been obtained under the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act and such consents, approvals, authorizations, registrations or qualifications as may be required under state securities or blue sky laws of any jurisdiction in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Securities by the Underwriters.
(g) . The Company maintains a system of internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act) that complies with the requirements of the Exchange Act and has been designed by the Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or under their supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; and the internal control over consolidated financial reporting of the Company is effective and the Company is not aware of any material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting.
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
(h) . The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act) that comply with the requirements of the Exchange Act; such disclosure controls and procedures have been designed to ensure that material information relating to the Company is made known to the Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer by others within the Company and its subsidiaries; and such disclosure controls and procedures are effective.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
4. . The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter that:
Further Agreements of the Company
(a) The Company will (i) pay the registration fees for this offering within the time period required by Rule 456(b)1(i) under the Securities Act (without giving effect to the proviso therein) and in any event prior to the Closing Date and (ii) file the Prospectus in a form approved by the Underwriters with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act not later than the close of business on the second business day following the date of determination of the public offering price of the Securities or, if applicable, such earlier time as may be required by Rule 424(b) and Rule 430A, 430B or 430C under the Securities Act. The Company will file any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (including the Term Sheet in the form of Schedule 4 to the Underwriting Agreement) to the extent required by Rule 433 under the Securities Act; and the Company will furnish copies of the Prospectus and each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (to the extent not previously delivered) to the Underwriters in New York City prior to 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on the business day next succeeding the date of this Agreement in such quantities as the Representative may reasonably request.
Filings with the Commission.
(b) . The Company will deliver, without charge, to each Underwriter during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below), as many copies
Delivery of Copies
 
of the Prospectus (including all amendments and supplements thereto and documents incorporated by reference therein) and each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (if applicable) as the Representative may reasonably request. As used herein, the term "Prospectus Delivery Period" means such period of time after the first date of the public offering of the Securities as in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters a prospectus relating to the Securities is required by law to be delivered (or required to be delivered but for Rule 172 under the Securities Act) in connection with sales of the Securities by any Underwriter or dealer.
(c) . Before making, preparing, using, authorizing, approving, referring to or filing any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and before filing any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, the Company will furnish to the Representative and counsel for the Underwriters a copy of the proposed Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, amendment or supplement for review and will not make, prepare, use, authorize, approve, refer to or file any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or file any such proposed amendment or supplement to which the Representative reasonably objects unless, in the case of a filing, the Company is required by law to make such filing.
Amendments or Supplements; Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
(d) . The Company will advise the Representative promptly (i) when any amendment to the Registration Statement has been filed or becomes effective; (ii) when any supplement to the Prospectus or any amendment to the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus has been filed; (iii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or the receipt of any comments from the Commission relating to the Registration Statement or any other request by the Commission for any additional information; (iv) of the issuance by the Commission of any order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for that purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act; (v) of the receipt by the Company of any notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act; and (vi) of the receipt by the Company of any notice with respect to any suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offer and sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose; and the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or suspending any such qualification of the Securities and, if any such order is issued, will obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
Notice to the Representative
(e) . If at any time prior to the Closing Date (i) any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which the Time of Sale Information as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances, not misleading or (ii) it is
Time of Sale Information
 
necessary to amend or supplement the Time of Sale Information to comply with law, the Company will immediately notify the Underwriters thereof and forthwith prepare and, subject to paragraph (c) above, file with the Commission (to the extent required) and furnish to the Underwriters and to such dealers as the Representative may designate, such amendments or supplements to the Time of Sale Information as may be necessary so that the statements in the Time of Sale Information as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances, be misleading or so that the Time of Sale Information will comply with law.
(f) . If during the Prospectus Delivery Period (i) any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which the Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading or (ii) it is necessary to amend or supplement the Prospectus to comply with law, the Company will immediately notify the Underwriters thereof and forthwith prepare and, subject to paragraph (c) above, file with the Commission and furnish to the Underwriters and to such dealers as the Representative may designate, such amendments or supplements to the Prospectus as may be necessary so that the statements in the Prospectus as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, be misleading or so that the Prospectus will comply with law.
Ongoing Compliance
(g) . The Company will make generally available to its security holders as soon as practicable an earning statement that satisfies the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 of the Commission promulgated thereunder covering a period of at least twelve months beginning with the first fiscal quarter of the Company occurring after the "effective date" (as defined in Rule 158) of the Registration Statement.
Earning Statement
(h) . The Company will, pursuant to reasonable procedures developed in good faith, retain copies of each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 433 under the Securities Act.
Record Retention
5. . Each Underwriter hereby represents and agrees that:
Certain Agreements of the Underwriters
(a) it has not and will not use, authorize use of, refer to, or participate in the planning for use of, any "free writing prospectus", as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act (which term includes use of any written information furnished to the Commission by the Company and not incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and any press release issued by the Company) other than (i) a free writing prospectus that, solely a result of use by such underwriter, would not trigger an obligation to file such free writing prospectus with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433, (ii) any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus listed on Schedule 3 to the Underwriting Agreement or prepared pursuant to Section 3(c) or Section 4(c) above (including any
 
electronic road show), or (iii) any free writing prospectus prepared by such underwriter and approved by the Company in advance in writing (each such free writing prospectus referred to in clauses (i) or (iii), an "Underwriter Free Writing Prospectus");
(b) notwithstanding the foregoing the Underwriters may use a term sheet substantially in the form of Schedule 4 to the Underwriting Agreement without the consent of the Company; and
(c) it is not subject to any pending proceeding under Section 8A of the Securities Act with respect to the offering (and will promptly notify the Company if any such proceeding against it is initiated during the Prospectus Delivery Period).
6. . The obligation of each Underwriter to purchase Securities on the Closing Date as provided herein is subject to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions:
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
(a) If a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement is required to be filed under the Securities Act, such post-effective amendment shall have become effective, and the Representative shall have received notice thereof, not later than 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on the date of the Underwriting Agreement; if applicable, the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement shall have become effective by 10:00 a.m. New York City time on the business day following the date of the Underwriting Agreement; no order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall be in effect, and no proceeding for such purpose, pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or pursuant to Section 8A under the Securities Act shall be pending before, or to the knowledge of the Company, threatened by the Commission; the Prospectus and each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus shall have been timely filed with the Commission under the Securities Act (in the case of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, to the extent required by Rule 433 under the Securities Act) and in accordance with Section 4(a) hereof.
Registration Compliance; No Stop Order.
(b) The Representative shall have received on the Closing Date a certificate signed by two officers of the Company satisfactory to the Representative (i) as to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company herein at and as of the Time of Sale and at and as of the Closing Date, (ii) as to the performance by the Company of all of its obligations hereunder to be performed at or prior to the Closing Date, (iii) at and as of the Time of Sale and at and as of the Closing Date, as to the absence subsequent to the date of the most recent financial statements in or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, of any material adverse change in the business, properties and financial position or results of operation of the Company except as set forth in or contemplated by the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information or the Prospectus, as amended and supplemented, as to the matters set forth in subsection (a) of this Section, and (iv) as to such other matters as the Representative may reasonably request.
Officer's Certificate.
 
(c) On the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP shall have furnished to the Representative, at the request of the Company, letters, dated the respective dates of delivery thereof and addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representative, containing statements and information of the type customarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus; that the letter delivered on the Closing Date shall use a "cut-off" date no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Comfort Letters.
provided
(d) Mark Migliaccio, Senior Corporate Counsel of the Company, shall have furnished to the Representative, at the request of the Company, his written opinion and 10b-5 Statement, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representative, to the effect set forth in Annexes B-1 and B-2 hereto.
Opinion and 10b-5 statement of Counsel of the Company.
(e) The Representative shall have received on and as of the Closing Date an opinion and 10b-5 statement of White & Case LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, with respect to such matters as the Representative may reasonably request, and such counsel shall have received such documents and information as they may reasonably request to enable them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion and 10b-5 Statement of Counsel for the Underwriters.
(f) . The Representative shall have received an opinion, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representative, dated the Closing Date, of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, counsel for the Company, to the effect set forth in Annex C hereto.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company
All opinions, letters, certificates and evidence mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions hereof only if they are in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters.
7. .
Indemnification and Contribution
(a) The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Underwriter may become subject, under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Time of Sale Information, the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be
Indemnification of the Underwriters.
 
stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and will reimburse each Underwriter for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Underwriter in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred; , , that the Company shall not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in any Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Time of Sale Information, the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or any such amendment or supplement (i) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein or (ii) contained in that part of the Registration Statement constituting the Statement of Eligibility and Qualification under the Trust Indenture Act (Form T-1) of the Trustee.
provided
however
(b) Each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, will indemnify and hold harmless the Company against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which the Company may become subject, under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Time of Sale Information, the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in any Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the Time of Sale Information, the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or any such amendment or supplement in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein; and will reimburse the Company for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Company in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim as such expenses are incurred.
Indemnification of the Company.
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above of notice of the commencement of any action (including any governmental investigation), such indemnified party shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under such subsection, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party otherwise than under such subsection. In case any such action shall be brought against any indemnified party and it shall notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party shall be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it shall wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be
Notice and Procedures.
 
counsel to the indemnifying party or represent two or more parties if such representation would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between or among them), and, after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party shall not be liable to such indemnified party under such subsection for any legal expenses of other counsel or any other expenses, in each case subsequently incurred by such indemnified party, in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation. No indemnifying party shall, without the written consent of the indemnified party, effect the settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, any pending or threatened action or claim in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified party is an actual or potential party to such action or claim) unless such settlement, compromise or judgment (i) includes an unconditional release of the indemnified party from all liability arising out of such action or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
(d) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 7 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriter on the other from the offering of the Securities to which such loss, claims, damage or liability (or action in respect thereof) relates. If, however, the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is not permitted by applicable law or if the indemnified party failed to give the notice required under subsection (c) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to such amount paid or payable by such indemnified party in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriter on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof), as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriter on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from such offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by such Underwriter. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company on the one hand or such Underwriter on the other and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contributions pursuant to this subsection (d) were determined by allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of
Contribution.
pro
rata
 
the equitable considerations referred to above in this subsection (d). The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to above in this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations in this subsection (d) to contribute are several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint.
(e) The obligations of the Company under this Section 7 shall be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have and shall extend, upon the same terms and conditions, to each officer and director of any Underwriter and to each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act; and the obligations of the Underwriters under this Section 7 shall be in addition to any liability which the respective Underwriters may otherwise have and shall extend, upon the same terms and conditions, to each officer and director of the Company and to each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act.
Non-Exclusive Remedies.
8. . This Agreement may be terminated in the discretion of the Representative, by notice to the Company, if after the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date there shall have occurred any of the following: (i) a suspension or material limitation in trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange; (ii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities in New York declared by either Federal or New York State authorities or any material disruption in securities settlement or clearance systems; or (iii) the outbreak or escalation of hostilities or any calamity or crisis on or after the date of this Agreement if the effect of any such event specified in this clause (iii) in the reasonable judgment of the Representative is material and adverse to the market for the Securities and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the public offering or the delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Prospectus as amended or supplemented.
Termination
9. . (a) If, on the Closing Date, any Underwriter defaults on its obligation to purchase the Securities that it has agreed to purchase hereunder, the non-defaulting Underwriters may in their discretion arrange for the purchase of such Securities by other persons satisfactory to the Company on the terms contained in this Agreement. If, within 36 hours after any such default by any Underwriter, the non-defaulting Underwriters do not arrange for the purchase of such Securities, then the Company shall be entitled to a further period of 36 hours within
Defaulting Underwriter
 
which to procure other persons satisfactory to the non-defaulting Underwriters to purchase such Securities on such terms. If other persons become obligated or agree to purchase the Securities of a defaulting Underwriter, either the non-defaulting Underwriters or the Company may postpone the Closing Date for up to five full business days in order to effect any changes that in the opinion of counsel for the Company or counsel for the Underwriters may be necessary in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus or in any other document or arrangement, and the Company agrees to promptly prepare any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement and the Prospectus that effects any such changes. As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes, for all purposes of this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires, any person not listed in the Underwriting Agreement that, pursuant to this Section 9, purchases Securities that a defaulting Underwriter agreed but failed to purchase.
(b) If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Securities of a defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters by the non-defaulting Underwriters and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Securities that remains unpurchased does not exceed one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities, then the Company shall have the right to require each non-defaulting Underwriter to purchase the principal amount of Securities that such Underwriter agreed to purchase hereunder plus such Underwriter's share (based on the principal amount of Securities that such Underwriter agreed to purchase hereunder) of the Securities of such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters for which such arrangements have not been made.
pro
rata
(c) If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Securities of a defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters by the non-defaulting Underwriters and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Securities that remains unpurchased exceeds one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities, or if the Company shall not exercise the right described in paragraph (b) above, then this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of the non-defaulting Underwriters. Any termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Section 9 shall be without liability on the part of the Company, except that the Company will continue to be liable for the payment of expenses as set forth in Section 10 hereof and except that the provisions of Section 7 hereof shall not terminate and shall remain in effect.
(d) Nothing contained herein shall relieve a defaulting Underwriter of any liability it may have to the Company or any non-defaulting Underwriter for damages caused by its default.
10. (a) Whether or not the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consummated or this Agreement is terminated, the Company will pay or cause to be paid all costs and expenses incident to the performance of its obligations hereunder, including without limitation, (i) the costs incident to the authorization, issuance, sale, preparation and delivery of the Securities and any taxes
Payment of Expenses.
 
payable in that connection; (ii) the costs incident to the preparation, printing and filing under the Securities Act of the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus (including all exhibits, amendments and supplements thereto) and the distribution thereof; (iii) the costs of reproducing and distributing the Indenture, the Securities and the Underwriting Agreement (collectively, the "Transaction Documents"); (iv) the fees and expenses of the Company's counsel and independent accountants; (v) any fees charged by rating agencies for rating the Securities; and (vi) the fees and expenses of the Trustee and any paying agent (including related fees and expenses of any counsel to such parties).
(b) If (i) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8, (ii) the Company for any reason fails to tender the Securities for delivery to the Underwriters or (iii) the Underwriters decline to purchase the Securities for any reason permitted under this Agreement (other than as permitted by Section 9), the Company agrees to reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket costs and expenses approved in writing by the Representative (including the fees and expenses of their counsel) reasonably incurred by the Underwriters in connection with this Agreement and the offering contemplated hereby.
11. . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and any controlling persons referred to herein, and the affiliates of each Underwriter referred to in Section 7 hereof. Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any other person any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision contained herein. No purchaser of Securities from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor merely by reason of such purchase.
Persons Entitled to Benefit of Agreement
12. . The respective indemnities, rights of contribution, representations, warranties and agreements of the Company and the Underwriters contained in this Agreement or made by or on behalf of the Company or the Underwriters pursuant to this Agreement or any certificate delivered pursuant hereto shall survive the delivery of and payment for the Securities and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any termination of this Agreement or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Company or the Underwriters.
Survival
13. . For purposes of this Agreement, (a) except where otherwise expressly provided, the term "affiliate" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act; (b) the term "business day" means any day other than a day on which banks are permitted or required to be closed in New York City; and (c) the term "subsidiary" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
Certain Defined Terms
14. . (a)  Any action by the Underwriters hereunder may be taken by the Representative on behalf of the Underwriters, and any such action taken by the Representative shall be binding upon the Underwriters.
Miscellaneous
Authority of the Representative.
 
(b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted and confirmed by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be given to the Representative at the address set forth in the Underwriting Agreement. Notices to the Company shall be given to it at Campbell Place, Camden, New Jersey, 08103-1799, (fax:(856) 342-3889); Attention: Corporate Secretary, or if different, to the address set forth in the Underwriting Agreement.
Notices.
(c) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
(d) No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor any consent or approval to any departure therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
Amendments or Waivers.
(e) The headings herein are included for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be part of, or to affect the meaning or interpretation of, this Agreement.
Headings.
 
Annex A
June 30, 2010                            
Barclays Capital Inc.
BNP Paribas Securities Corp.
and
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
Barclays Capital Inc.
  As Representative of the
  several Underwriters listed
  in Schedule 1 hereto
c/o Barclays Capital Inc.
745 Seventh Avenue
New York, New York 10019
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Campbell Soup Company, a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several Underwriters listed in Schedule 1 hereto (the "Underwriters"), for whom you are acting as representative (the "Representative"), $400,000,000 principal amount of its 3.050% Senior Notes due 2017 having the terms set forth in Schedule 2 hereto (the "Securities"). The Securities will be issued pursuant to an indenture (the "Indenture") dated as of November 24, 2008 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the "Trustee").
The Company agrees to issue and sell the Securities to the several Underwriters as provided in this Agreement, and each Underwriter, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements set forth herein and subject to the conditions set forth herein, agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective principal amount of Securities set forth opposite such Underwriter's name in Schedule 1 hereto at a price equal to 99.086% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, from July 6, 2010 to the Closing Date (as defined below). The Company will not be obligated to deliver any of the Securities except upon payment for all the Securities to be purchased as provided herein.
The Company understands that the Underwriters intend to make a public offering of the Securities as soon after the effectiveness of this Agreement as in the
 
judgment of the Representative is advisable, and initially to offer the Securities on the terms set forth in the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus. Schedule 3 hereto sets forth the Time of Sale Information made available at the Time of Sale. The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Underwriters may offer and sell Securities to or through any affiliate of an Underwriter and that any such affiliate may offer and sell Securities purchased by it to or through any Underwriter.
Payment for and delivery of the Securities shall be made at the offices of White & Case LLP at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on July 6, 2010, or at such other time or place on the same or such other date, not later than the fifth business day thereafter, as the Representative and the Company may agree upon in writing (the "Closing Date").
Payment for the Securities shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the account(s) specified by the Company to the Representative against delivery to the nominee of The Depository Trust Company, for the account of the Underwriters, of one or more global notes representing the Securities (collectively, the "Global Note"), with any transfer taxes payable in connection with the sale of the Securities duly paid by the Company. The Global Note will be made available for inspection by the Representative not later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the business day prior to the Closing Date.
The Company and the Underwriters acknowledge and agree that the only information relating to any Underwriter that has been furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter through the Representative expressly for use in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any Time of Sale Information consists of the following: (a) the second sentence of the third paragraph of text under the caption "Underwriting" in the preliminary Prospectus Supplement and the Prospectus Supplement, concerning market making by the Underwriters, (b) the fourth paragraph of text under the caption "Underwriting" in the preliminary Prospectus Supplement and the Prospectus Supplement, concerning the terms of the offering by the Underwriters and (c) the sixth paragraph of text under the caption "Underwriting" in the preliminary Prospectus Supplement and the Prospectus Supplement, concerning short sales and stabilization by the Underwriters, and related matters.
All provisions contained in the document entitled Campbell Soup Company Debt Securities Underwriting Agreement Standard Provisions are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Underwriting Agreement to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein, except that if any term defined in such Underwriting Agreement Standard Provisions is otherwise defined herein, the definition set forth herein shall control.
This Agreement may be signed in counterparts (which may include counterparts delivered by any standard form of telecommunication), each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please indicate your acceptance of this Agreement by signing in the space provided below.
 
Accepted: June 30, 2010
 
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
Representative and Address for Notices:
Barclays Capital Inc.
745 Seventh Avenue
New York, NY 10019
Attention: Syndicate Registration
Facsimile No: 1-646-834-8133
Certain Terms of the Securities:
 
The Securities will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Securities or (ii) as determined by a Quotation Agent (as defined in the Prospectus), the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption) discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate (as defined in the Prospectus), plus 10 basis points plus accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption.
 
Schedule 3
Time of Sale Information
Pricing Term Sheet dated June 30, 2010
Preliminary Prospectus dated June 30, 2010
 
Schedule 4
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Barclays Capital Inc. toll free at 1-888-603-5847 (or emailing Barclays Capital Inc. at barclaysprospectus@broadridge.com), BNP Paribas Securities Corp. toll free at 1-800-854-5674 or J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. collect at 1-212-834-4533.
 
Annex B-1
(1) The Company is duly incorporated and validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of New Jersey, with corporate power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Prospectus as amended or supplemented.
(2) To the best knowledge of such counsel, there are no pending or threatened legal or governmental proceedings required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information or the Prospectus as amended or supplemented which are not described therein as required in all material respects.
(3) The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
(4) The issuance and sale of the Securities have been duly authorized by the Company and the Securities have been duly executed and delivered by the Company.
(5) The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
(6) The issue and sale of the Securities and the compliance by the Company with all of the provisions of the Securities, the Indenture and the Underwriting Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated in the Underwriting Agreement will not conflict with or result in a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, any material indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which the Company is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company is subject, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, or the By-Laws of the Company or any statute or any order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its properties, which conflict, breach, default or violation would have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries.
(7) No consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any court or governmental agency or body of the United States of America or the State of New Jersey is required for the issuance and sale of the Securities or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated by this Underwriting Agreement or the Indenture, except such as have been obtained under the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act and such consents, approvals, authorizations, registrations or qualifications as may be required under state securities or blue sky laws of any jurisdiction in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Securities by the Underwriters.
 
(8) The Securities and the Indenture conform to the descriptions thereof in the Prospectus.
(9) The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement" as defined under Rule 405 under the Securities Act that has been filed with the Commission not earlier than three years prior to the date hereof; and no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of such registration statement pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act has been received by the Company; each of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus was filed with the Commission pursuant to subparagraph (2) of Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act on , 2010 and on , 2010 respectively; and no order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued, no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of such registration statement pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act has been received by the Company and no proceeding for that purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act against the Company or in connection with the offering has been initiated or, to the best knowledge of such counsel, threatened by the Commission.
        
        
In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials that are furnished to the Underwriters.
The opinion of counsel of the Company described above shall be rendered to the Underwriters at the request of the Company and shall so state therein.
 
Annex B-2
(1) The Registration Statement and the Prospectus (including all incorporated documents) appear on their face to be appropriately responsive in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act and the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder; and
(2) nothing has come to the attention of such counsel that causes such counsel to believe that, insofar as relevant to the offering of the Securities:
(a) on the date of the Underwriting Agreement, the Registration Statement contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading,
(b) at on June , 2010, the Time of Sale Information contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or
        
    
(c) the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto as of the date of the Underwriting Agreement or as of the date hereof contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials that are furnished to the Underwriters.
The opinion of counsel of the Company described above shall be rendered to the Underwriters at the request of the Company and shall so state therein.
 
Annex C
(1) The Indenture became qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, upon the filing of the Company's registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-155626) with the Commission on November 24, 2008 pursuant to Rule 462(e) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
(2) Assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by the Company, the Indenture is a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, concepts of reasonableness and equitable principles of general applicability; that such counsel need not express any opinion as to the enforceability of any waiver of rights under any usury or stay law.
provided
(3) Assuming the due authorization of the Securities by the Company, the Securities, when executed and authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, will be valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, concepts of reasonableness and equitable principles of general applicability, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture pursuant to which such Securities are to be issued; that such counsel need not express any opinion as to the enforceability of any waiver of rights under any usury or stay law.
provided
(4) The execution and delivery by the Company of, and the performance by the Company of its obligations under, the Indenture, the Securities and the Underwriting Agreement (collectively, the "Documents") will not contravene any provision of the laws of the State of New York or any federal law of the United States of America that in such counsel's experience is normally applicable to general business corporations in relation to transactions of the type contemplated by the Documents; that such counsel need not express any opinion as to federal or state securities laws.
provided
In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials that are furnished to the Underwriters.
The opinion of counsel for the Company described above shall be rendered to the Underwriters at the request of the Company and shall so state therein.
 

Exhibit 4.1
THIS SECURITY IS A BOOK-ENTRY SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITORY. THIS SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN SUCH LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.
 
CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of New Jersey (herein called the "", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of FOUR HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS ($400,000,000) on July 15, 2017 and to pay interest thereon from July 6, 2010, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year, commencing January 15, 2011 at the rate of 3.050% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the January 1 or July 1 (whether or not a Business Day) next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Except as otherwise provided in the Indenture, any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Company
Payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security may be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in New York, New York.
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse side hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof, directly or through an Authenticating Agent, by manual signature of an authorized signatory, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated:                     , 2010
 
[seal]
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated:                     , 2010
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of November 24, 2008 (herein called the ""), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee (herein called the "", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof.
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
The Securities of this series are subject to redemption, as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at any time at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of such Securities or (2) as determined by a Quotation Agent, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate, plus 10 basis points; plus, in each case (1) and (2), accrued interest on such Securities to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
Adjusted Treasury Rate
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by a Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities.
Comparable Treasury Issue
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than three such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
 
"" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
Quotation Agent
"" means (1) Barclays Capital Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and their respective successors; , that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer (a ""), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided, however
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
Notice of redemption will be given by mail to Holders of Securities, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, all as provided in the Indenture.
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the Securities or portions of the Securities called for redemption.
In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. Upon payment (i) of the amount of principal so declared due and payable and (ii) of interest on any overdue principal and overdue interest (in each case to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), all of the Company's obligations in respect of the payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on the Securities of this series shall terminate.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in
 
principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding (with each series voting as a separate class in certain cases specified in the Indenture, or with all series voting as one class, in certain other cases specified in the Indenture), on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notification of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Security of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series shall have made written request, and offered reasonable indemnity, to the Trustee to institute such proceeding as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceedings within 60 days; , that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on this Security on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
provided, however
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the times, places and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on such Security are payable), duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
The Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to the conflicts of laws provisions thereof.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 


