FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20101130163508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On November 29, 2010, Campbell Soup Company ("Campbell") received a notice from the Plan Administrator of the Campbell Soup Company Savings Plus Plan for Salaried Employees and the Campbell Soup Company Savings Plus Plan for Hourly Paid Employees (collectively, the "401(k) plan") notifying Campbell of a 401(k) plan blackout period. The blackout period is required due to changes being made to the 401(k) plan in connection with the replacement of its current service provider. During the blackout period, 401(k) plan participants will be unable to make contribution rate and future investment changes, investment election changes, loan repayments or requests and withdrawals/distributions under the 401(k) plan, including with respect to Campbell common stock. The blackout period will begin at 4:00pm Eastern Time on December 30, 2010, and end during the week of January 9, 2011 (such period, the "Blackout Period"). Campbell received the notice required by section 101(i)(2)(E) of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 relating to the Blackout Period on November 29, 2010.
On November 30, 2010, Campbell sent a notice to its directors and executive officers informing them of the Blackout Period and the Campbell common stock trading restrictions (including with respect to derivatives) that apply to them during the Blackout Period. This notice was required pursuant to Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Section 104 of Regulation BTR under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
A copy of the notice to the directors and executive officers is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. During the Blackout Period and for a period of two years after the ending date of the Blackout Period, shareowners or other interested parties may obtain, without charge, information about the beginning date and the actual ending date of the Blackout Period by contacting:
99.1       Notice to Directors and Executive Officers dated November 30, 2010.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Important Notice of Blackout Period to Directors and Executive Officers of Campbell Soup Company
November 30, 2010
Federal securities laws require us to send you a notice whenever restrictions are imposed on your trading in Campbell Soup Company common stock (including derivatives) due to a blackout of the Campbell Soup Company Savings Plus Plan for Salaried Employees and the Campbell Soup Company Savings Plus Plan for Hourly Paid Employees (collectively, the "401(k) plan") that lasts for a period of more than three consecutive business days. As some of you may know, the blackout, which will begin at 4:00pm Eastern Time on December 30, 2010 and end during the week of January 9, 2011 (the "Blackout Period"), is necessary to make changes to the 401(k) plan related to the replacement of the plan's current service provider. During the Blackout Period, 401(k) plan participants will be unable to make contribution rate and future investment changes, investment election changes, loan repayments or requests and withdrawals/distributions under the 401(k) plan, including with respect to the Campbell stock fund.
Federal securities laws provide that, during the Blackout Period, all directors and executive officers of Campbell are prohibited, with limited exceptions, from purchasing, selling or otherwise acquiring or transferring any Campbell common stock (including exercising Company stock options) or any derivatives of Campbell common stock, regardless of whether the director or officer participates in the 401(k) plan. As a director or executive officer of Campbell, these prohibitions apply to you and to members of your immediate family who share your household, as well as by trusts, corporations and other entities whose stock ownership may be attributed to you. The trading prohibition does not apply, however, to certain transactions, such as qualified Rule 10b5-1 trading plan transactions and bona fide gifts.
Although the Blackout Period falls during a period in which your trading is already restricted under our trading window policy, we are required to provide you with this notice in order to comply with federal securities laws.
If you engage in a transaction that violates these rules, you may be required to disgorge your profits from the transaction, and you may be subject to civil and criminal penalties.
If you have questions regarding the Blackout Period, including when it has started or ended, you may contact the following service providers without any charge:


