FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20100524070831.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
   
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
   
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
   
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 24, 2010, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended May 2, 2010, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
today reported its fiscal 2010 third-quarter results.
CAMDEN, N.J., May 24, 2010Campbell Soup Company (NYSE: CPB)
Third-Quarter Summary
     Net earnings for the quarter ended May 2, 2010, were $168 million, or $0.49 per share, compared with $174 million, or $0.49, in the prior year. Excluding all items impacting comparability in both periods, adjusted net earnings rose 9 percent to $186 million compared with $171 million in the prior year's quarter, and adjusted net earnings per share grew 13 percent to $0.54 in the current quarter compared with $0.48 in the year-ago quarter. The current quarter's reported net earnings included adjustments related to the previously announced restructuring program and a deferred tax expense related to the enactment of U.S. health care legislation in March 2010. A detailed reconciliation of current and prior-year adjusted financial information to the reported information is included at the end of this news release.
 
     Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's President and CEO, said, "We delivered another quarter of strong adjusted earnings growth, driven by an improvement in volume trends, coupled with continued gains from productivity and favorable currency. Our U.S. beverages and sauces businesses had an outstanding quarter with strong top- and bottom-line performance, led by V8 V-Fusion' juices and Prego' and Pace' sauces. In addition, U.S. soup delivered strong volume gains, particularly in ready-to-serve soups. The promotional plans we executed in the third quarter drove volume growth in all formatscondensed, ready-to-serve and broth. We also were pleased with the earnings growth of our Baking and Snacking segment, led by Pepperidge Farm.
     "Importantly, our products used to prepare meals at home continued to resonate with consumers. Meal makerswhich include condensed cooking soups, broth and saucesare crucial to how we will compete and win in the simple meals category."
     Conant concluded, "Based on our third-quarter performance and outlook for the remainder of the year, we expect adjusted net earnings per share growth to be at the high end of our range."
Fiscal 2010 Guidance
     Campbell expects sales growth of 2.5 to 3.5 percent, adjusted earnings growth before interest and taxes (EBIT) of 6 to 7 percent and adjusted net earnings per share growth (EPS) at the high end of the 9- to 11-percent range from the fiscal 2009 adjusted base of $2.21. This guidance includes the anticipated impact of currency translation.
Third-Quarter Results
     For the third quarter, sales increased 7 percent to $1.802 billion. The increase in sales reflected the following factors:
Third-Quarter Financial Details
 
Nine-Month Results
     Net earnings for the first nine months were $731 million, or $2.09 per share, compared with $667 million, or $1.83 per share, in the year-ago period. Excluding all items impacting comparability in both periods, adjusted net earnings per share increased by 13 percent.
     For the first nine months of fiscal 2010, sales were $6.158 billion, an increase of 2 percent over the year-ago period. The change in sales for the period reflected the following factors:
 
Year-to-Date Financial Details
 
Summary of Fiscal 2010 Third-Quarter and Year-to-Date Results by Segment
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $848 million for the third quarter, an increase of 5 percent compared with a year ago. The change in sales reflected the following factors:
     Soup sales for the quarter increased 2 percent, as 5-percent volume growth was partly offset by increased promotional spending.
     Beverage sales increased 13 percent driven by volume gains.
     Sauces sales improved reflecting good gains in "Prego" pasta sauce and double-digit growth in "Pace" Mexican sauce.
 
     Operating earnings were $214 million, compared with $195 million in the prior-year period. The increase in operating earnings was primarily due to higher sales and improved gross margin performance.
     For the first nine months, U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages sales decreased 2 percent to $3.056 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     For the first nine months, U.S. soup sales declined 4 percent due to a 10-percent decrease in ready-to-serve soups. Sales of condensed soup fell 1 percent, with an increase in cooking varieties more than offset by a decline in eating varieties. Broth sales increased 2 percent.
     Operating earnings were $804 million, compared with $779 million in the year-ago period. The increase in operating earnings was due to improved gross margin performance and lower advertising expense, partially offset by lower sales.
Baking and Snacking
     Sales for Baking and Snacking were $477 million in the third quarter, an increase of 11 percent from a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Further details of sales results included the following:
 
     Operating earnings were $76 million, compared with $57 million in the prior-year period. The prior-year quarter included $1 million in costs related to the restructuring program. The increase in operating earnings was due to the favorable impact of currency and margin growth in Pepperidge Farm.
     For the first nine months, sales increased 8 percent to $1.496 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Operating earnings were $249 million, compared with $193 million in the year-ago period. The prior-year period included $3 million in costs related to the restructuring program. The increase in operating earnings was due to the favorable impact of currency and margin growth in both Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's.
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     Sales for International Soup, Sauces and Beverages were $331 million for the third quarter, an increase of 11 percent compared with a year ago. The change in sales reflected the following factors:
     Further details of sales results included the following:
 
     Operating earnings were $37 million, compared with $29 million in the year-ago period. The increase in operating earnings was due to the favorable impact of currency and margin growth in Europe, partly offset by declines in Canada.
     For the first nine months, sales increased 7 percent to $1.142 billion. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Excluding the impact of currency and divestitures, declines in Europe and Canada were partly offset by gains in Asia Pacific.
     Operating earnings were $155 million, compared with $117 million in the year-ago period. The increase in operating earnings was primarily driven by the favorable impact of currency and growth in Europe.
North America Foodservice
     Sales were $146 million for the third quarter, a decrease of 3 percent compared with a year ago. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
     Sales declined primarily due to continued weakness in the food service sector.
     There was an operating loss of $3 million compared with a $13 million gain in the prior-year quarter. The current quarter included a $12 million restructuring charge, while the prior-year quarter included $5 million in restructuring-related costs. The remaining decrease was primarily due to lower sales.
     For the first nine months, sales were $464 million compared with $476 million in the year-ago period. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
 
     Operating earnings were $40 million, compared with $34 million in the prior period. The current year included a $12 million restructuring charge, while the prior-year period included $18 million in restructuring-related costs. Excluding these items, operating earnings were comparable to a year ago.
Unallocated Corporate Expenses
     Unallocated corporate expenses increased to $32 million in the current quarter from $8 million a year ago. The prior year included a favorable net adjustment of $11 million related to commodity hedging. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher equity-related benefit costs. Unallocated expenses for the first nine months were $87 million versus $83 million in the prior year. The prior year included $14 million of unrealized losses on commodity hedges. The remaining increase was primarily due to higher equity-related benefit costs.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
     A reconciliation of the adjusted fiscal 2010 and 2009 financial information to the reported financial information is attached to this news release.
Conference Call
     Campbell will host a conference call to discuss these results on May 24, 2010, at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-866-238-1640 and non-U.S. participants at 1-703-639-1161. Participants should call at least five minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is "Campbell Soup" and the conference leader is Jennifer Driscoll. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at and can be accessed by clicking on the "News & Events" button. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight June 7, 2010, at 1-888-266-2081 or 1-703-925-2533. The access code is 1457585.
investor.campbellsoupcompany.com
Reporting Segments
     Campbell Soup Company earnings results are reported for the following segments:
 
     includes the following retail businesses: "Campbell's" brand condensed and ready-to-serve soups, "Swanson" broth, stock and canned poultry businesses, "Prego" pasta sauce, "Pace" Mexican sauce, "Campbell's" canned pasta, gravies and beans, "V8" vegetable juices, "V8 V-Fusion" juices, "V8 Splash" juice beverages, "Campbell's" tomato juice, and "Wolfgang Puck" soups, stocks and broths.
U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     includes the following businesses: "Pepperidge Farm" cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products in U.S. retail and "Arnott's" biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific.
Baking and Snacking
     includes the soup, sauce and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Europe, Mexico, Latin America, the Asia Pacific region, as well as the emerging markets of Russia and China, and the retail business in Canada.
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
     includes the Away From Home business in the U.S. and Canada.
North America Foodservice
About Campbell Soup Company
Campbell Soup Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of high-quality foods and simple meals, including soup and sauces, baked snacks and healthy beverages. Founded in 1869, the company has a portfolio of market-leading brands, including "Campbell's," "Pepperidge Farm," "Arnott's" and "V8." Through its corporate social responsibility program, the company strives to make a positive impact in the workplace, in the marketplace and in the communities in which it operates. Campbell is a member of the Standard & Poor's 500 and the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes. For more information, visit .
www.campbellsoup.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" that reflect the company's current expectations about the impact of its future plans and performance on sales, earnings, and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates that could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause the company's actual results to vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement include (1) the impact of strong competitive responses to the company's efforts to leverage its brand power in the market; (2) the risks associated with trade and consumer acceptance of the company's initiatives; (3) the company's ability to realize projected cost savings and benefits; (4) the
 
company's ability to manage changes to its business processes; (5) the increased significance of certain of the company's key trade customers; (6) the impact of fluctuations in the supply or costs of energy and raw and packaging materials; (7) the risks associated with portfolio changes; (8) the uncertainties of litigation; (9) the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, tax rates, interest rates, debt and equity markets, inflation rates, economic conditions and other external factors; (10) the impact of unforeseen business disruptions in one or more of the company's markets due to political instability, civil disobedience, armed hostilities, natural disasters or other calamities; and (11) other factors described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the company adopted and retrospectively applied new accounting guidance related to the calculation of earnings per share. The retrospective application of the provision resulted in a reduction of the previously reported basic net earnings per share of $.01 for the third quarter of fiscal 2009. There was no change to the previously reported diluted net earnings per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2009.
In fiscal 2010, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring charges of $12 ($8 after tax or $.02 per share) for pension benefit costs associated with the initiatives announced in April 2008 to improve operational efficiency. In fiscal 2009, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring-related costs in cost of products sold of $6 ($4 after tax or $.01 per share) related to the previously announced initiatives.
In fiscal 2010, the company recorded deferred tax expense of $10, or $.03 per share, due to the enactment of U.S. health care legislation in March 2010.
In fiscal 2009, the company recognized in cost of products sold an $11 ($7 after tax or $.02 per share) favorable net adjustment on commodity hedge positions.
 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the company adopted and retrospectively applied new accounting guidance related to the calculation of earnings per share. The retrospective application of the provision resulted in a reduction of the previously reported basic earnings per share from continuing operations and net earnings of $.03 and of the previously reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations and net earnings of $.02 for the nine-month period ended May 3, 2009. There was no change to the basic and diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations for the nine-month period ended May 3, 2009.
In fiscal 2010, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring charges of $12 ($8 after tax or $.02 per share) for pension benefit costs associated with the initiatives announced in April 2008 to improve operational efficiency. In fiscal 2009, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring-related costs in cost of products sold of $21 ($14 after tax or $.04 per share) related to the previously announced initiatives.
In fiscal 2010, the company recorded deferred tax expense of $10, or $.03 per share, due to the enactment of U.S. health care legislation in March 2010.
In fiscal 2009, the company recognized expense of $14 ($9 after tax or $.03 per share) in cost of products sold related to unrealized losses on commodity hedges.
In fiscal 2009, the company recognized a $4 (or $.01 per share) tax benefit in discontinued operations related to the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business.
 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the company adopted and retrospectively applied new accounting guidance related to the calculation of earnings per share. There was no change to the previously reported diluted net earnings per share for the third quarter of fiscal 2009.
In fiscal 2010, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring charges of $12 ($8 after tax or $.02 per share) for pension benefit costs associated with the initiatives announced in April 2008 to improve operational efficiency. The restructuring charges were recognized in the North America Foodservice segment. In fiscal 2009, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring-related costs in cost of products sold of $6 ($4 after tax or $.01 per share) related to the previously announced initiatives. The restructuring-related costs were recognized in the following segments: North America Foodservice - $5 and Baking and Snacking - $1.
In fiscal 2010, the company recorded deferred tax expense of $10, or $.03 per share, due to the enactment of U.S. health care legislation in March 2010.
In fiscal 2009, the company recognized in cost of products sold an $11 ($7 after tax or $.02 per share) favorable net adjustment on commodity hedge positions. The favorable net adjustment is included in Unallocated corporate expenses.
 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the company adopted and retrospectively applied new accounting guidance related to the calculation of earnings per share. The retrospective application of the provision resulted in a reduction of the previously reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations and net earnings of $.02 for the nine-month period ended May 3, 2009. There was no change to the diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations for the nine-month period ended May 3, 2009.
In fiscal 2010, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring charges of $12 ($8 after tax or $.02 per share) for pension benefit costs associated with the initiatives announced in April 2008 to improve operational efficiency. The restructuring charges were recognized in the North America Foodservice segment. In fiscal 2009, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring-related costs in cost of products sold of $21 ($14 after tax or $.04 per share) related to the previously announced initiatives. The restructuring-related costs were recognized in the following segments: North America Foodservice - $18 and Baking and Snacking - $3.
In fiscal 2010, the company recorded deferred tax expense of $10, or $.03 per share, due to the enactment of U.S. health care legislation in March 2010.
In fiscal 2009, the company recognized expense of $14 ($9 after tax or $.03 per share) in cost of products sold related to unrealized losses on commodity hedges. The losses are included in Unallocated corporate expenses.
In fiscal 2009, the company recognized a $4 (or $.01 per share) tax benefit in discontinued operations related to the sale of the Godiva Chocolatier business.
 
Certain reclassifications were made to prior year amounts to conform with the current year presentation.
 
Campbell Soup Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. These non-GAAP financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures.
Items Impacting Gross Margin and Earnings
The company believes that financial information excluding certain transactions not considered to be part of the ongoing business improves the comparability of year-to-year results. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand its gross margin and earnings results if these transactions are excluded.
The following items impacted gross margin and/or earnings:
 
The tables below reconcile financial information, presented in accordance with GAAP, to financial information excluding certain transactions:
(millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
(millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
(millions, except per share amounts)
 


