FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20110701163033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
   
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
   
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
   
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
The Compensation and Organization Committee of the Board of Directors of Campbell Soup Company (the "Company") authorized the issuance on July 1, 2011 of 29,456 restricted stock units to B. Craig Owens, Senior Vice President  Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer, and 23,565 restricted stock units to Ellen O. Kaden, Senior Vice President  Law and Government Affairs, pursuant to the Company's 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Each unit represents a right to receive one share of Company common stock upon vesting. The units will vest on June 30, 2013, provided that the executive continues to be employed by the Company. The units will be prorated in the event of an involuntary termination, death or disability occurring at least six months after the grant date, as more fully described in the grant agreement attached hereto.
The full terms and conditions of the grants are set forth in the form of agreement filed as an exhibit to this Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 1, 2011
 

Exhibit 10.1
     TIME-LAPSE RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT (the "Agreement"), dated as of the 1 day of July, 2011 (the "Grant Date") between Campbell Soup Company (the "Company") and ____________ (the "Participant"), an employee of the Company.
st
     WHEREAS, the Company desires to award the Participant restricted stock units, which each represent a right to receive one share of Capital Stock of the Company (the "Restricted Stock Units") as hereinafter provided, under the Campbell Soup Company 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Except as otherwise provided, the terms used herein shall have the same meaning as in the Plan.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of valuable considerations the legal sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
     1. . The Company hereby confirms the award to the Participant on the Grant Date by the Compensation and Organization Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") of ______ Restricted Stock Units. The Restricted Stock Units are in all respects limited and conditioned as hereinafter provided, and are subject in all respects to the Plan's terms and conditions, as amended.
Award of Restricted Stock Units
     2. . Subject to the terms of this Agreement and the Plan and provided that the Participant remains continuously employed until June 30, 2013, all _____ Restricted Stock Units will vest on that date (the "Vesting Date"). Except as otherwise provided below, the Company shall deliver to the Participant one share of the Company's Capital Stock for a vested Restricted Stock Unit during the month following the Vesting Date. In lieu of issuing fractional shares of the Company's Capital Stock, the Company shall round the shares to the nearest whole share. Unless terminated earlier under Section 4 below, a Participant's rights under this Agreement shall terminate with respect to each Restricted Stock Unit at the time such Restricted Stock Unit is converted into the Company's Capital Stock.
Restriction Period; Payment
     3.  After the Vesting Date, Participant shall be paid in cash the accumulated amount equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid on the Company's Capital Stock underlying the Restricted Stock Units to the extent the Company's Board of Directors had approved and declared a dividend on its Capital Stock. Such dividend equivalent amount shall be paid during the month following the Vesting Date. Subject to Section 4 below, the dividend equivalent payment shall be forfeited for any Restricted Stock Units terminated under Section 4 if the Participant is no longer employed by the Company or its subsidiaries and an exception does not apply.
Dividend Equivalent Payment.
     4. . The Restricted Stock Units shall terminate and become null and void if and when the Participant ceases for any reason to be an employee of the Company or its subsidiaries, except as provided in below:
Early Termination of Restricted Stock Unit; Termination of Employment
1
 
     5. . The Company or the subsidiary which employs the Participant shall be entitled to require, as a condition of making any payments or issuing any shares upon vesting of the Restricted Stock Units, that the Participant or other person entitled to such shares or other payment pay any sums required to be withheld by federal, state, local, or other applicable tax law with respect to such vesting or payment. Alternatively, the Company or such subsidiary, in its discretion, may make such provisions for the withholding of taxes as it deems appropriate (including, without limitation, withholding the taxes due from compensation otherwise payable to the Participant or reducing the number of shares otherwise deliverable with respect to the award (with the value based on the closing price on the NYSE composite tape on the tax date) by the amount necessary to satisfy such withholding obligations).
Withholding of Taxes
     6. . Participant's right in the Restricted Stock Units awarded under this Agreement and any interest therein may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner, other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution. Restricted Stock Units shall not be subject to execution, attachment or other process.
Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units
     7. . If one or more of the provisions of this Award Agreement shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent permissible by law, any provisions which could be deemed null and void shall first be construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this Agreement to be construed so as to foster the intent of this Agreement and the Plan.
Severability
     8. . This Agreement shall be interpreted, operated, and administered in a manner so as not to subject Participant to the assessment of additional taxes or interest under Code section 409A to the extent such Participant or any payment under this Agreement is subject to U.S. tax laws, and this Agreement shall be amended as the Company, in its sole discretion, determines is necessary and appropriate to avoid the application of any such taxes or interest.
Internal Revenue Code Section 409A
2
 
     9. . The terms of the Plan and this Agreement when signed by Participant will constitute the entire agreement with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement supersedes any prior agreements, representations or promises of the parties relating to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
     10. . This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with, and its interpretation shall otherwise be governed by, New Jersey law.
Governing Law
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed by a duly authorized executive, and the Participant has hereunto set his or her hand and seal, all as of the day and year first above written.
3


