FILE:CPB/CPB-8K-20121120073653.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report
(Date of Earliest Event Reported):
November 20, 2012
One Campbell Place
Camden, New Jersey 08103-1799
Principal Executive Offices
Telephone Number: (856) 342-4800
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-(c))
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 20, 2012, Campbell Soup Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended October 28, 2012, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
99.1    Release dated November 20, 2012 announcing financial results for the quarter ended October 28, 2012.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACTS:
        
Carla Burigatto (Media)
(856) 342-3737
carla_burigatto@campbellsoup.com
    
Jennifer Driscoll (Analysts/Investors)
(856) 342-6081
jennifer_driscoll@campbellsoup.com
                
CAMPBELL REPORTS FIRST-QUARTER RESULTS
First-Quarter Adjusted Net Earnings per Share Increased 7 Percent to $0.88
First-Quarter Sales Rose 8 Percent to $2.336 Billion
Fiscal 2013 Guidance Confirmed
CAMDEN, N.J., Nov. 20, 2012-Campbell Soup Company (NYSE:CPB)
today reported its results for the first quarter of fiscal 2013.
First-Quarter Overview
Net earnings for the quarter ended Oct. 28, 2012, were $245 million, or $0.78 per share, compared with $265 million, or $0.82 per share, in the prior year. The current quarter's reported net earnings included transaction costs associated with the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms, as well as charges associated with the Sept. 2012 restructuring program. Excluding these items impacting comparability, adjusted net earnings increased 5 percent to $279 million, and adjusted net earnings per share increased 7 percent to $0.88 in the current quarter. A detailed reconciliation of the reported financial information to the adjusted information is included at the end of this news release.
Denise Morrison, Campbell's President and Chief Executive Officer, said,
We are encouraged by our performance in the first quarter and feel good about the progress we've made in executing our three growth strategies.
In our largest business, U.S. Simple Meals, we generated sales growth both in U.S. Soup and in U.S. Sauces, driven by innovation in our base business and by new product introductions. Our recently acquired Bolthouse Farms business performed very well in the quarter, and we remain excited about the growth platform it provides Campbell in the packaged fresh foods category. We delivered continued solid performance at Pepperidge Farm in the crackers business, while our bakery business declined in the quarter. Our Asia Pacific business delivered good results, driven by improved performance in Australia and strong sales growth in Malaysia and Indonesia. In U.S. Beverages, our core business in original 'V8' vegetable juice and 'V8 V-Fusion' beverages continued to be challenged by slackening consumer demand.
            Morrison concluded, Overall, our fiscal year 2013 is off to a solid start. We remain focused on returning our company to sustainable, profitable net sales growth. We know we have more work to do to change Campbell's growth trajectory and achieve our long-term targets on our base business.
Campbell Confirms Fiscal 2013 Guidance
The company confirmed its previous fiscal 2013 guidance. Campbell expects to grow sales between 10 and 12 percent, adjusted EBIT between 4 and 6 percent and adjusted EPS between 3 and 5 percent. The company expects adjusted EPS to be between $2.51 and $2.57. This guidance includes the estimated impact of the Bolthouse Farms business and excludes the impact of acquisition transaction costs and restructuring charges. In fiscal 2013, Campbell expects Bolthouse Farms to contribute approximately $750 million to sales and add $0.05 to $0.07 to adjusted EPS, including the impact of the suspension of Campbell's strategic share repurchase program.
Restructuring Program
On Sept. 27, 2012, Campbell announced a program to improve its U.S. supply chain cost structure and increase asset utilization across its U.S. thermal plant network. This initiative includes plans to close the company's South Plainfield spice plant by March 2013 and its Sacramento plant by July 2013. In the
aggregate, the company expects to incur pre-tax costs of approximately $115 million, most of which will be incurred in fiscal 2013. In the first quarter, Campbell recorded pre-tax costs of $43 million, $27 million after tax or $0.09 per share, related to these initiatives.
First-Quarter Results
For the first quarter, sales increased 8 percent to $2.336 billion. The increase in sales for the quarter reflected the following factors:
The acquisition of Bolthouse Farms added 8 percent
Price and sales allowances added 2 percent
Increased promotional spending subtracted 1 percent
Currency subtracted 1 percent
First-Quarter Financial Details
Summary of Fiscal 2013 First-Quarter Results by Segment
U.S. Simple Meals
Sales for U.S. Simple Meals were $896 million for the first quarter, an increase of 3 percent compared with the year-ago period. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
U.S. Soup sales increased 2 percent compared to the year-ago quarter.
U.S. Sauces sales increased 4 percent compared to the year-ago quarter. The growth was primarily driven by strong gains in Prego pasta sauces, the launch of Campbell's Skillet Sauces and growth in Pace Mexican sauces. Sales of gravy declined.
U.S. Simple Meals operating earnings increased 5 percent to
$274 million compared with $260 million in the prior-year period. The increase in operating earnings was driven by earnings gains in U.S. Soup, partly offset by a decline in U.S. Sauces. For the segment, benefits from productivity improvements; higher selling prices net of related volume impacts; and lower marketing expenses were partly offset by cost inflation.
Global Baking and Snacking
Sales for Global Baking and Snacking were $574 million for the first quarter, an increase of 1 percent from a year ago. The change in sales reflected the following factors:
Further details of sales results included the following:
Operating earnings for the quarter were $85 million compared with $88 million in the prior year, reflecting lower earnings in Arnott's and Pepperidge Farm. Both businesses were negatively impacted by increased promotional spending.
International Simple Meals and Beverages
Sales for International Simple Meals and Beverages were $354 million for the first quarter, a decrease of 1 percent. Organic sales increased 2 percent. The change in sales reflected the following factors:
Volume and mix subtracted 1 percent
Price and sales allowances added 3 percent
Currency subtracted 3 percent
Excluding the impact of currency, higher sales in the Asia Pacific region, Latin America and Canada were partially offset by declines in Europe.
Operating earnings were $47 million compared with $43 million in the year-ago period. The increase in operating earnings was primarily driven by higher organic sales and an increase in gross margin percentage.
U.S. Beverages
Sales for U.S. Beverages were $189 million for the first quarter, a decrease of 5 percent compared to the year-ago period. A breakdown of the change in sales follows:
Volume and mix subtracted 4 percent
Increased promotional spending subtracted 1 percent
The decrease in sales was due to declines in V8 vegetable juice and V8 V-Fusion beverages, partially offset by an increase in V8 Splash beverages.
Operating earnings for the quarter were $30 million, comparable to the prior year. The impact of lower volume was offset by lower advertising and consumer promotion expenses.
Bolthouse and Foodservice
The balance of the portfolio includes the Bolthouse Farms business, which was acquired on Aug. 6, 2012, and the North America Foodservice business.
Sales were $323 million for the first quarter, with the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms contributing $171 million. Organic sales in North America Foodservice declined 6 percent compared with a year ago. A breakdown of the change in organic sales follows:
Volume and mix subtracted 3 percent
Increased promotional spending subtracted 3 percent
North America Foodservice sales decreased primarily due to declines in frozen and canned soup sales, partially offset by volume-driven gains in fresh chilled soup sold at retail.
Operating earnings increased by $7 million to $34 million driven by the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms, partially offset by lower earnings in North America Foodservice.
Unallocated Corporate Expenses
Unallocated corporate expenses for the quarter were $63 million compared with $30 million a year ago. The current quarter included $21 million of restructuring-related costs and $10 million of transaction costs related to the Bolthouse Farms acquisition.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
A detailed reconciliation of the reported financial information to the adjusted financial information is included at the end of this news release.
    
Conference Call
Campbell will host a conference call to discuss these results on Nov. 20, 2012, at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. U.S. participants may access the call at 1-866-835-8906 and non-U.S. participants at 1-703-639-1413. Participants should call at least ten minutes prior to the starting time. The passcode is Campbell Soup and the conference leader is Jennifer Driscoll. The call will also be broadcast live over the Internet at
investor.campbellsoupcompany.com
and can be accessed by clicking on the News & Events button. A recording of the call will be available approximately two hours after it is completed through midnight on Dec. 4, 2012, at 1-888-266-2081 or 1-703-925-2533. The access code is 1596039.
Reporting Segments
Campbell Soup Company earnings results are reported for the following segments:
U.S. Simple Meals
aggregates the U.S. Soup and U.S. Sauces businesses. The U.S. Soup business includes the following products: Campbell's condensed and ready-to-serve soups, and Swanson broth and stocks. The U.S. Sauces business includes Prego pasta sauce, Pace Mexican sauce, Swanson canned poultry, Campbell's canned pasta, gravies, and beans.
Baking and Snacking
aggregates the following: Pepperidge Farm cookies, crackers, breads and frozen products in U.S. retail; and Arnott's biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific.
International Simple Meals and Beverages
aggregates the following: soup, sauce and beverage products outside of the United States, including Europe, Latin America, Asia Pacific, China and the retail business in Canada.
U.S. Beverages
represents the following products: V8 vegetable juices, V8 V-Fusion juices and juice beverages,
V8 Splash juice beverages, and Campbell's tomato juice.
Bolthouse and Foodservice
includes the Bolthouse Farms and North America Foodservice businesses. Bolthouse Farms consists of the following products: super-premium refrigerated beverages, refrigerated salad dressings and carrot products, including fresh carrots, juice concentrate and fiber. North America Foodservice represents the distribution of products such as soup, specialty entrees, beverage products, other prepared foods and Pepperidge Farm products through various food service channels in the United States and Canada.
About Campbell Soup Company
Campbell Soup Company is a manufacturer and marketer of high-quality foods and simple meals, including soup and sauces, baked snacks and healthy beverages. Founded in 1869, the company has a portfolio of market-leading brands, including Campbell's, Pepperidge Farm, Arnott's, V8 and Bolthouse Farms. Through its corporate social responsibility program, the company strives to make a positive impact in the workplace, in the marketplace and in the communities in which it operates. Campbell is a member of the Standard & Poor's 500 and the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes. For more information, visit
www.campbellsoupcompany.com
.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current expectations about the impact of its future plans and performance on sales, earnings, and margins. These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates that could be inaccurate and which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause the company's actual results to vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statement include (1) the impact of strong competitive responses to the company's efforts to leverage its brand power in the market; (2) the risks associated with trade and consumer acceptance of the company's initiatives; (3) the company's ability to realize projected cost savings and benefits; (4) the company's ability to manage changes to its business processes; (5) the increased significance of certain of the company's key trade customers; (6) the impact of fluctuations in the supply or costs of energy and raw and packaging materials; (7) the impact of
portfolio changes, including the Bolthouse Farms acquisition; (8) the uncertainties of litigation; (9) the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, tax rates, interest rates, debt and equity markets, inflation rates,
economic conditions and other external factors; (10) the impact of unforeseen business disruptions in one or more of the company's markets due to political instability, civil disobedience, armed hostilities, natural disasters or other calamities; and (11) other factors described in the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company disclaims any obligation or intent to update the forward-looking statements in order to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release.
CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (unaudited)
(millions, except per share amounts)
 
In fiscal 2013, the company recorded pre-tax transaction costs of $10 ($7 after tax or $.02 per share) associated with the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms, which closed on August 6, 2012. The costs are included in Other expenses.
In fiscal 2013, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring charges of $22 and restructuring-related costs of $21 in Cost of products sold (aggregate impact of $27 after tax or $.09 per share) associated with the initiatives announced in September 2012 to improve its U.S. supply chain cost structure and increase asset utilization across its U.S. thermal plant network.
 
CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE OF SALES AND EARNINGS (unaudited)
(millions, except per share amounts)
 
In fiscal 2013, the company recorded pre-tax transaction costs of $10 ($7 after tax or $.02 per share) associated with the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms, which closed on August 6, 2012. The costs are included in Unallocated corporate expenses.
In fiscal 2013, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring charges of $22 and restructuring-related costs of $21 in Unallocated corporate expenses (aggregate impact of $27 after tax or $.09 per share) associated with the initiatives announced in September 2012 to improve its U.S. supply chain cost structure and increase asset utilization across its U.S. thermal plant network.
CAMPBELL SOUP COMPANY
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited)
(millions)
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Measures
First Quarter Ended
October 28, 2012
Campbell Soup Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission in certain communications. These non-GAAP financial measures are measures of performance not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, not in lieu of, GAAP reported measures.
Net Debt
The company believes that net debt is a non-GAAP measure that provides additional meaningful comparisons between the company's financial position at October 28, 2012 and October 30, 2011, and also a useful perspective on the financial condition of the business. Interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents partially offsets interest expense on debt. Cash and cash equivalents are available to repay outstanding debt upon maturity.
The table below summarizes information on total debt and cash and cash equivalents:
Organic Net Sales
The company believes that organic net sales, which exclude the impact of acquisitions and currency, improves the comparability of year-to-year results. A reconciliation of net sales as reported to organic net sales follows.
Items Impacting Gross Margin and Earnings
The company believes that financial information excluding certain transactions that are not considered to be part of the ongoing business improves the comparability of year-to-year results. Consequently, the company believes that investors may be able to better understand its gross margin and earnings results excluding these transactions.
The following items impacted gross margin and/or earnings:
In fiscal 2011, the company announced a series of initiatives to improve supply chain efficiency and reduce overhead costs across the organization to help fund plans to drive the growth of the business. The company also announced its intent to close its office in Moscow and exit the Russian market. In fiscal 2012, the company recorded pre-tax restructuring charges of $10 million ($6 million after tax or $.02 per share) related to the initiatives.
(2) In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, the company announced its intent to acquire Bolthouse Farms. In the first quarter of fiscal 2013, the company incurred transaction costs of $10 million ($7 million after tax or $.02 per share) associated with the acquisition, which closed on August 6, 2012. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, the company incurred transaction costs of $5 million ($3 million after tax or $.01 per share) associated with the acquisition.
(3) Bolthouse Farms contributed $14 million to earnings before interest and taxes in fiscal 2013.
The tables below reconcile financial information, presented in accordance with GAAP, to financial information excluding certain transactions:
 
Earnings before Interest and Taxes Excluding Acquisition


