FILE:KMX/KMX-8K-20021003140356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.    OTHER EVENTS
 
The Separation
 
On October 1, 2002, Circuit City Stores, Inc. ("Circuit City Stores") completed the separation of the CarMax Group from Circuit City Stores in accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, dated May 21, 2002 (the "Separation Agreement"), between Circuit City Stores and CarMax, Inc. ("CarMax" or "CarMax, Inc."). As a result, CarMax, Inc. has become an independent, separately traded public company that holds all of the businesses, assets and liabilities of the former CarMax Group. The separation was effected by redeeming all of the outstanding shares of CarMax Group Common Stock in exchange for shares of CarMax, Inc. common stock and distributing shares of CarMax, Inc. common stock to holders of Circuit City Group Common Stock. The holders of CarMax Group Common Stock received one share of CarMax, Inc. common stock in exchange for each share of CarMax Group Common Stock held and the holders of Circuit City Group Common Stock received 0.313879 of a share of CarMax, Inc. common stock for each share of Circuit City Group Common Stock held. The record date for holders of Circuit City Group Common Stock to participate in the distribution was September 16, 2002. In addition, immediately following the separation, the Circuit City Group Common Stock was redesignated "Common Stock" of Circuit City Stores and is the only class of common stock of Circuit City Stores. A copy of the CarMax press release announcing the completion of the separation is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In connection with the separation, effective as of October 1, 2002, W. Alan McCollough, Michael T. Chalifoux and Philip J. Dunn resigned as officers and directors of CarMax, Inc. and the following eight individuals were elected to the CarMax board of directors, divided into three classes: Jeffrey E. Garten, Beth A. Stewart and William R. Tiefel, are Class 1 directors, with a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders to be held in 2003; Keith D. Browning, Hugh G. Robinson and Richard L. Sharp are Class 2 directors, with terms expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders to be held in 2004; and W. Austin Ligon and John W. Snow are Class 3 directors, with terms expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders to be held in 2005. Mr. Sharp was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors. In addition, the CarMax board of directors named W. Austin Ligon, the president of CarMax, to serve as the chief executive officer of CarMax.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 3, 2002
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
The name of the Corporation is CarMax, Inc.
 
 
The purpose for which the Corporation is organized is to engage in any lawful business not required by the Virginia Stock Corporation Act to be stated in the Articles of Incorporation.
 
 
A.        The aggregate number of shares that the Corporation shall have authority to issue and the par value per share are as follows:
Authorized Stock.
 
 
B.        No holder of outstanding shares of any class of stock shall have any preemptive right with respect to (i) any shares of any class of stock of the Corporation or other security that the Corporation may determine to issue, whether the shares of stock or other security to be issued is now or hereafter authorized, (ii) any warrants, rights or options to purchase any such stock or other security, or (iii) any obligations convertible into any such stock or other security or into warrants, rights or options to purchase any such stock or other security.
Preemptive Rights.
 
 
A.        Certain provisions relating to the Preferred Stock and the relative rights of the Preferred Stock and the holders of the outstanding shares thereof, regardless of series, are set forth below.
General.
 
(1)        The Board of Directors is authorized to issue the Preferred Stock from time to time in one or more series and to provide for the relative rights and preferences of each series by the adoption of an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation fixing:
Issuance in Series.
 
(a)    The maximum number of shares in a series and the designation of the series, which designation shall distinguish the shares thereof from the shares of any other series or class;
 
(b)    Any right of holders of shares of the series to distributions, calculated in any manner, including the rate or rates of dividend, the time of payment, whether dividends shall be cumulative and if so, the dates from which they shall be cumulative, and the extent of participation rights, if any;
 
(c)    Any voting rights, including any right to vote with holders of shares of any other series or class and any right to vote as a class, either generally or as a condition to specified corporate action; provided that the shares of the series shall have those voting rights which are required by law;
 
(d)    The price at and the terms and conditions on which shares may be redeemed;
 
(e)    The amount payable upon shares in the event of involuntary liquidation;
 
(f)    The amount payable upon shares in the event of voluntary liquidation;
 
(g)    Sinking fund provisions for the redemption or purchase of shares;
 
(h)    The terms and conditions on which shares may be converted, if the shares of any series are issued with the privilege of conversion; and
 
(i)    Any other designations, rights, preferences or limitations that are now or hereafter permitted by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia and are not inconsistent with the provisions of paragraph (A)(1) of this Article.
 
(2)        Before the issuance of any shares of a series of the Preferred Stock, Articles of Amendment establishing such series shall be filed with and made effective by the State Corporation Commission of Virginia, as required by law.
Articles of Amendment.
 
(3)        All shares of the Preferred Stock, regardless of series, shall be identical with each other in all respects except as is permitted in paragraph (A)(1) of this Article.
Parity of All Shares.
 
 
A.        The holders of outstanding shares of Common Stock shall, to the exclusion of the holders of any other class of stock of the Corporation, have the sole power to vote for the election of directors and for all other purposes without limitation, except (i) as
Voting Rights.
otherwise provided herein or in the Articles of Amendment establishing any series of Preferred Stock or (ii) as may be required by law.
 
B.        Subject to the rights of any holders of shares of Preferred Stock, or of any other stock ranking senior to the Common Stock as to dividends or rights in the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, the holders of the shares of Common Stock shall be entitled to distributions, including dividends, when declared by the Board of Directors and to the net assets of the Corporation upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
Distributions.
 
 
The number of directors shall be fixed by the bylaws. In the absence of such a provision in the bylaws, the number of directors shall be ten. In no event, however, shall the number of directors exceed fourteen or be less than three. The directors of the corporation shall be divided into three classes as nearly equal in number as possible. The term of office of the first class of directors shall expire at the first annual meeting of stockholders after the initial election dividing directors into such classes, that of the second class shall expire at the second annual meeting after such election and that of the third class at the third annual meeting after such election. At each annual meeting of stockholders, successors to the class of directors whose terms shall then expire and any other nominees for election as a director of such class shall be elected to hold office until the third succeeding annual meeting. If the number of directors is changed, any newly created directorships or decrease in directorships shall be so apportioned among the classes as to make all classes as nearly equal in number as possible. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the holders of one or more series of Preferred Stock voting as a separate class shall become entitled to elect members of the Board pursuant to the provisions of the Articles of Amendment establishing such series, the terms of all members of the Board of Directors previously elected shall expire at the time of such election and each director shall then serve until the next meeting of stockholders at which directors are elected; and whenever the holders of any series of Preferred Stock are no longer entitled to so elect directors voting as a separate class, all of the directors shall be elected by classes at the next annual meeting of stockholders held for such purpose in the manner provided hereinabove in this paragraph with respect to the initial election dividing directors into such classes. Subject to the foregoing, at each annual meeting of stockholders the successors to the class of directors whose terms shall then expire and any other nominees for election as a director of such class shall be elected to hold office until the third succeeding annual meeting.
 
 
A.        For purposes of this Article the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions.
 
"Corporation" means this Corporation only and no predecessor entity or other legal entity;
 
"expenses" include counsel fees, expert witness fees, and costs of investigation, litigation and appeal, as well as any amounts expended in asserting a claim for indemnification;
 
"liability" means the obligation to pay a judgment, settlement, penalty, fine, or other such obligation, including, without limitation, any excise tax assessed with respect to an employee benefit plan;
 
"legal entity" means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise;
 
"predecessor entity" means a legal entity the existence of which ceased upon its acquisition by the Corporation in a merger or otherwise; and
 
"proceeding" means any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, proceeding or appeal whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative and whether formal or informal.
 
B.        The Corporation shall indemnify any individual who is, was or is threatened to be made a party to a proceeding because the individual is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or, while a director or officer of the Corporation, is or was serving the Corporation or any other legal entity in any capacity at the request of the Corporation against all liabilities and reasonable expenses incurred in the proceeding except such liabilities and expenses as are incurred because of the individual's willful misconduct or knowing violation of the criminal law (regardless of whether the proceeding is by or in the right of the Corporation). Service as a director or officer of a legal entity controlled by the Corporation shall be deemed service at the request of the Corporation. The determination that indemnification under this Paragraph B is permissible and the evaluation as to the reasonableness of expenses in a specific case shall be made, in the case of a director, as provided by law, and in the case of an officer, as provided in Paragraph C of this Article; provided, however, that if a majority of the directors of the Corporation has changed after the date of the alleged conduct giving rise to a claim for indemnification, such determination and evaluation shall, at the option of the person claiming indemnification, be made by special legal counsel agreed upon by the Board of Directors and such person. Unless a determination has been made that indemnification is not permissible, the Corporation shall make advances and reimbursements for expenses incurred by a director or officer in a proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking from such person to repay the same if it is ultimately determined that such person is not entitled to indemnification. Such undertaking shall be an unlimited, unsecured general obligation of the director or officer and shall be accepted without reference to such person's ability to make repayment. The termination of a proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent shall not of itself create a presumption that a director or officer acted in such a manner as to make such person ineligible for indemnification. The Corporation may contract in advance to indemnify, and make advances and reimbursements for expenses to, any person entitled to indemnity under this Paragraph B to the same extent provided in this Paragraph B.
Indemnification of Directors and Officers.
 
C.        The Corporation may, to a lesser extent or to the same extent that the Corporation is required to provide indemnification and make advances and reimbursements for expenses to its directors and officers, provide indemnification and make
Indemnification of Others.
advances and reimbursements for expenses to its employees and agents, the directors, officers, employees and agents of its subsidiaries and predecessor entities, and any person serving any other legal entity in any capacity at the request of the Corporation, and, if authorized by general or specific action of the Board of Directors, may contract in advance to do so. The determination that indemnification under this Paragraph C is permissible, the authorization of such indemnification and the evaluation as to the reasonableness of expenses in a specific case shall be made as authorized from time to time by general or specific action of the Board of Directors, which action may be taken before or after a claim for indemnification is made, or as otherwise provided by law. No person's rights under Paragraph B of this Article shall be limited by the provisions of this Paragraph C.
 
D.        The rights of each person entitled to indemnification, advances and reimbursements under or pursuant to this Article shall inure to the benefit of such person's heirs, executors and administrators. Every reference in this Article to persons who are or may be entitled to indemnification shall include all persons who formerly occupied any of the positions referred to herein. Special legal counsel selected to make determinations under this Article may be counsel for the Corporation. Indemnification pursuant to this Article shall not be exclusive of any other right of indemnification to which any person may be entitled including indemnification pursuant to a valid contract, indemnification by legal entities other than the Corporation and indemnification under policies of insurance purchased and maintained by the Corporation or others. However, no person shall be entitled to indemnification by the Corporation to the extent he is indemnified by another, including an insurer. The Corporation is authorized to purchase and maintain insurance against any liability it may have under this Article or to protect any of the persons named above against any liability arising from their service to the Corporation or any other legal entity at the request of the Corporation regardless of the Corporation's power to indemnify against such liability. The provisions of this Article shall not be deemed to prohibit the Corporation from entering into contracts otherwise permitted by law with any individuals or legal entities, including those named above, for the purposes of conducting the business of the Corporation. No amendment, modification or repeal of this Article shall diminish the rights provided hereunder to any person arising from conduct, events or conditions occurring or existing before the adoption of such amendment, modification or appeal. If any provision of this Article or its application to any person or circumstance is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this Article, and to this end the provisions of this Article are severable.
Miscellaneous.
 
 
To the full extent that the Virginia Stock Corporation Act, as it now exists or is hereafter amended, permits the limitation or elimination of the liability of directors or officers, a director or officer of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders.
 
 
As to each voting group entitled to vote on an amendment or restatement of the Articles of Incorporation, the vote required for approval shall be (i) the vote required by the Virginia Stock Corporation Act (as applied without regard to the effect of clauses (ii) and (iii) of this Article) if the effect of the amendment or restatement is (a) to reduce the shareholder vote required to approve a merger, a statutory share exchange, a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation or the dissolution of the Corporation, (b) to modify any provision of Article VI of these Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, or (c) to delete all or any part of this clause (i) of this Article; (ii) the vote required by the terms of the Articles of Incorporation, in effect at the time, if such terms require the approval of more than a majority of the votes entitled to be cast thereon by such voting group; or (iii) a majority of the votes entitled to be cast thereon if neither clause (i) nor clause (ii) of this Article is applicable.

 
Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
1.    The name of the corporation is CarMax, Inc. (the "Company").
Name.    
 
2.        The text of the amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit A. The amendment sets forth Paragraph B of Article IV of the Articles of Incorporation, which designates 300,000 shares of the Preferred Stock as the Cumulative Participating Preferred Stock, Series A and provides for the relative rights and preferences of such series.
Text of the amendment.
 
3.    .    The Board of Directors of the Company adopted the amendment of the Articles of Incorporation on May 21, 2002, without shareholder action.
Board Action
 
4.    .    Pursuant to Paragraph A of Article IV of the Articles of Incorporation, no shareholder action was required.
Shareholder Action
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed the Articles of Amendment on behalf of the Company as of May 21, 2002.
 
Exhibit A
 
B.    Series A Preferred Stock.
 
The Board of Directors of the Corporation has heretofore designated 300,000 shares of the Preferred Stock as the Cumulative Participating Preferred Stock, Series A ("Series A Stock"). Such number may from time to time be decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series A Stock then outstanding) by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. The relative rights and preferences of such series and the holders of the outstanding shares thereof are as set forth in this Section B.
 
(1)    .
Dividends and Distributions
 
(a)    The holders of shares of the Series A Stock, in preference to the holders of shares of the Common Stock and of any other junior stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the fifteenth day (or, if not a business day, the preceding business day) of January, April, July and October in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of the Series A Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $1.00 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 1000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 1000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock, or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of the Series A Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of the Series A Stock declare or pay any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount per share to which holders of shares of the Series A Stock shall be entitled under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying the amount per share to which holders of shares of the Series A Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
 
(b)    The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Stock as provided in paragraph (B)(1)(a) of this Article immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend
Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $1.00 per share on the Series A Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
 
(c)    Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of the Series A Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares of the Series A Stock, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of the Series A Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of the Series A Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of the Series A Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
 
(2)    .    The holders of shares of the Series A Stock shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights
 
(a)    Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of the Series A Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 1,000 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of the Series A Stock declare or pay any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of the Series A Stock shall be entitled shall be adjusted by multiplying the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of the Series A Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
 
(b)    Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, the holders of shares of the Series A Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of the Corporation.
 
(c)    Except as set forth herein or as provided by law, holders of the Series A Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to
the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
 
(3)    .
Certain Restrictions
 
(a)    Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Stock as provided in paragraph (B)(1) of this Article are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of the Series A Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
 
(i)    declare, set apart or pay dividends on or make any other distributions on the Common Stock or any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Stock;
 
(ii)    declare or pay dividends on or make any other distributions on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled; or
 
(iii)    redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of the Series A Stock, any such parity stock or any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Stock, or set aside for or pay to any sinking fund therefor.
 
(b)    The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (B)(3)(a) of this Article, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
 
(4)    .    Any shares of the Series A Stock redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and canceled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, par value $20.00 per share, and may be reissued as a new series or a part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors or as part of an existing series of Preferred Stock.
Reacquired Shares
 
(5)    .
Redemption
 
(a)    The Corporation may, at its option and at any time and from time to time after May 21, 2062, redeem all or any portion of the outstanding shares of Series A Stock.
 
(b)    The redemption price shall be an amount per share equal to the greater of (i) $140,000 or (ii) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 1000 times the current market price per share of Common Stock on the date fixed for redemption, plus in each such case an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date fixed for redemption. The current market price per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the daily closing prices per share of such Common Stock for the 30 consecutive trading days immediately prior to such date. The closing price for each day shall be the last sale price, regular way, or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the NYSE, as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted price or, if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked prices in the over-the counter market, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations Systems ("NASDAQ") or such other system then in use, or, if on any such date the Common Stock is not quoted by any such organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker making a market in the Common Stock. If no professional market maker is then making a market in the Common Stock, the current market price per share of the Common Stock shall be deemed to be $1.00. As used herein, the term trading day shall mean a day on which the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading is open for the transaction of business or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, a business day. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of the Series A Stock declare or pay any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount per share to which holders of shares of the Series A Stock shall be entitled under the provisions of the first sentence of this paragraph shall be adjusted by multiplying the amount per share to which holders of shares of the Series A Stock should have been entitled immediately prior to such event under the provisions of the first sentence of this paragraph by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
 
(c)    In case less than all of the outstanding shares of Series A Stock are to be redeemed, not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption the Corporation shall select the shares to be redeemed. Such shares shall be selected by lot or designated ratably or in such other equitable manner as the Corporation may determine. The
Corporation in its discretion may select the particular certificates (if there are more than one) representing shares registered in the name of a holder that are to be redeemed.
 
(d)    Not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption, notice of redemption shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the holders of record of the outstanding shares of the Series A Stock to be redeemed at their last known addresses shown in the Corporation's share transfer records. The notice of redemption shall set forth the paragraph of this Article pursuant to which the shares are being redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed, the date fixed for redemption, the applicable redemption price, and the place or places where certificates representing shares to be redeemed may be surrendered. In case less than all of the outstanding shares of the Series A Stock are to be redeemed the notice of redemption shall also set forth the numbers of the certificates representing shares to be redeemed and, in case less than all shares represented by any such certificate are to be redeemed, the number of shares represented by such certificate to be redeemed.
 
(e)    If notice of redemption of any outstanding shares of Series A Stock shall have been duly mailed as herein provided, then on or before the date fixed for redemption the Corporation shall deposit cash sufficient to pay the redemption price of such shares in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares to be redeemed with any bank or trust company in the City of Richmond, Commonwealth of Virginia, having capital and surplus aggregating at least $50,000,000 as of the date of its most recent report of financial condition and named in such notice, to be applied to the redemption of the shares so called for redemption against surrender for cancellation of the certificates representing such shares. From and after the time of such deposit all shares for the redemption of which such deposit shall have been made shall, whether or not the certificates therefor shall have been surrendered for cancellation, no longer be deemed to be outstanding for any purpose, and all rights with respect to such shares shall thereupon cease and terminate except the right to receive payment of redemption price but without interest. Any interest earned on funds so deposited shall be paid to the Corporation from time to time. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of five years from the date fixed for redemption shall be repaid to the Corporation, free of trust, and the holders of the shares called for redemption who shall not have surrendered their certificates representing such shares prior to such repayment shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for the amount of the redemption price and shall look only to the Corporation for payment thereof, without interest, subject to the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.
 
(f)    The Corporation shall also have the right to acquire outstanding shares of Series A Stock otherwise than by redemption pursuant to paragraph (B)(5)(a) of this Article, from time to time for such consideration as may be acceptable to the holders thereof; provided, however, that if all dividends accrued on all outstanding shares of Series A Stock shall not have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart, neither the Corporation nor any subsidiary shall so acquire any shares of Series A Stock except in accordance with a purchase offer made on the same terms to all the holders of the outstanding shares of Series A Stock.
 
(6)        In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination, statutory share exchange or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case the shares of the Series A Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed in an amount per share (subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth) equal to 1000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. If the Corporation shall at any time after the first issuance of any shares of the Series A Stock declare or pay any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of the Series A Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Consolidation, Merger, etc.
 
(7)    .    Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made (a) to the holders of shares of Common Stock or of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of the Series A Stock shall have received an amount per share equal to the greater of (i) $140,000 or (ii) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 1,000 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of Common Stock, plus in each such case an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment, or (b) to the holders of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Stock, except distributions made ratably on the Series A Stock and all other such parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of the Series A Stock declare or pay any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount per share to which holders of shares of the Series A Stock shall be entitled under the provision of clause (a) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying the amount per share to which holders of shares of the Series A Stock would have been entitled immediately prior to such event under the provision of clause (a) of the preceding sentence by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up
 
(8)    .    The Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of more than two-thirds of the outstanding shares of the Series A Stock, voting together as a single voting group.
Amendment

 
Exhibit 3.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Meetings of shareholders shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation or at such place, either within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia, and at such time as may be provided in the notice of the meeting and approved by the Board of Directors.
1.1    Place and Time of Meetings.
 
    The Chairman or, in the Chairman's absence, the President shall serve as chairman at all meetings of the shareholders. In the absence of both of the foregoing persons or if both of them decline to serve, a majority of the shares entitled to vote at a meeting may appoint any person entitled to vote at the meeting to act as chairman. The Secretary or, in the Secretary's absence, an Assistant Secretary shall act as secretary at all meetings of the shareholders. In the event that neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present, the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
1.2    Organization and Order of Business.
 
The Chairman shall have the authority to make such rules and regulations, to establish such procedures and to take such steps as he or she may deem necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of each meeting of the shareholders, including, without limitation, the authority to make the agenda and to establish procedures for (i) dismissing of business not properly presented, (ii) maintaining of order and safety, (iii) placing limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, (iv) placing restrictions on attendance at a meeting by persons or classes of persons who are not shareholders or their proxies, (v) restricting entry to a meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and (vi) commencing, conducting and closing voting on any matter.
 
Any business which might properly have been conducted on an original meeting date may come before an adjourned meeting when reconvened.
 
    The annual meeting of shareholders shall be held in the month of June of each year on such day and convening at such time as shall be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. If such day is a legal holiday, then the annual meeting of shareholders shall be held on the next succeeding business day. Alternatively, the annual meeting may be held on such other day as may be provided in the notice of the meeting and approved by the Board of Directors.
1.3    Annual Meeting.
 
At each annual meeting of shareholders, only such business shall be conducted as is proper to consider and has been brought before the meeting (i) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of the meeting, (ii) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) by a shareholder
who is a shareholder of record of a class of shares entitled to vote on the business such shareholder is proposing and who is such a shareholder of record, both at the time of the giving of the shareholder's notice hereinafter described in this Section 1.3 and on the record date for such annual meeting, and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.3.
 
In order to bring before an annual meeting of shareholders any business which may properly be considered and which a shareholder has not sought to have included in the Corporation's proxy statement for the meeting, a shareholder who meets the requirements set forth in the preceding paragraph must give the Corporation timely written notice. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be given, either by personal delivery to the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary at the principal office of the Corporation or by first class United States mail, with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the Secretary at the principal office of the Corporation. Any such notice must be received (i) on or after February 1st and before March 1st of the year in which the meeting will be held, if clause (ii) is not applicable, or (ii) not less than 90 days before the date of the meeting if the date of such meeting, as prescribed in these bylaws, has been changed by more than 30 days.
 
Each such shareholder's notice shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (i) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's stock transfer books, of the shareholder proposing business, (ii) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by such shareholder, (iii) a representation that such shareholder is a shareholder of record at the time of the giving of the notice and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to present the business specified in the notice, (iv) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, including the complete text of any resolutions to be presented and the reasons for wanting to conduct such business and (v) any interest which the shareholder may have in such business.
 
The Secretary or Assistant Secretary shall deliver each shareholder's notice that has been timely received to the Chairman for review.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.3, a shareholder seeking to have a proposal included in the Corporation's proxy statement for an annual meeting of shareholders shall comply with the requirements of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or with any successor regulation.
 
    Special meetings of the shareholders may be called only by the Chairman, the President or the Board of Directors. Only business within the purpose or purposes described in the notice for a special meeting of shareholders may be conducted at the meeting.
1.4    Special Meetings.
 
    The Board of Directors shall fix, in advance, a record date to make a determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or to receive any dividend or for any purpose, such date to be not more than 70 days before the meeting or action requiring a determination of shareholders.
1.5    Record Dates.
 
When a determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders has been made, such determination shall be effective for any adjournment of the
meeting unless the Board of Directors fixes a new record date, which it shall do if the meeting is adjourned to a date more than 120 days after the date fixed for the original meeting.
 
    Written notice stating the place, day and hour of each meeting of shareholders and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be given by mail not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting (except when a different time is required in these Bylaws or by law) to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. Such notice shall be deemed to be effective when deposited in first class United States mail with postage thereon prepaid and addressed to the shareholder at his or her address as it appears on the share transfer books of the Corporation.
1.6    Notice of Meetings.
 
Notice of a shareholder's meeting to act on (i) an amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, (ii) a plan of merger or share exchange, (iii) the sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially all the property of the Corporation otherwise than in the usual and regular course of business or (iv) the dissolution of the Corporation, shall be given, in the manner provided above, not less than 25 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting. Any notice given pursuant to this section shall state that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is to consider such action and shall be accompanied by (x) a copy of the proposed amendment, (y) a copy of the proposed plan of merger or share exchange or (z) a summary of the agreement pursuant to which the proposed transaction will be effected. If only a summary of the agreement is sent to the shareholders, the Corporation shall also send a copy of the agreement to any shareholder who requests it.
 
If a meeting is adjourned to a different date, time or place, notice need not be given if the new date, time or place is announced at the meeting before adjournment. However, if a new record date for an adjourned meeting is fixed, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to shareholders as of the new record date unless a court provides otherwise.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no notice of a meeting of shareholders need be given to a shareholder if (i) an annual report and proxy statements for two consecutive annual meetings of shareholders or (ii) all, and at least two, checks in payment of dividends or interest on securities during a 12-month period, have been sent by first-class United States mail, with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the shareholder at his or her address as it appears on the share transfer books of the Corporation, and returned undeliverable. The obligation of the Corporation to give notice of meetings of shareholders to any such shareholder shall be reinstated once the Corporation has received a new address for such shareholder for entry on its share transfer books.
 
    A shareholder may waive any notice required by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws before or after the date and time of the meeting that is the subject of such notice. The waiver shall be in writing, be signed by the shareholder entitled to the notice and be delivered to the Secretary for inclusion in the minutes or filing with the corporate records.
1.7    Waiver of Notice; Attendance at Meeting.
 
A shareholder's attendance at a meeting (i) waives objection to lack of notice or defective notice of the meeting unless the shareholder, at the beginning of the meeting, objects to holding
the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and (ii) waives objection to consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose or purposes described in the meeting notice unless the shareholder objects to considering the matter when it is presented.
 
    Unless otherwise required by law, a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on a matter constitutes a quorum for action on that matter. Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is or shall be set for that adjourned meeting. If a quorum exists, action on a matter, other than the election of directors, is approved if the votes cast favoring the action exceed the votes cast opposing the action unless a greater number of affirmative votes is required by law. Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the shares entitled to vote in the election at a meeting at which a quorum is present. Less than a quorum may adjourn a meeting.
1.8    Quorum and Voting Requirements.
 
A shareholder may vote his or her shares in person or by proxy. A shareholder may appoint a proxy to vote or otherwise act for such shareholder by signing an appointment form, either personally or by his or her attorney-in-fact. An appointment of a proxy is effective when received by the Secretary or other officer or agent authorized to tabulate votes and is valid for eleven (11) months unless a longer period is expressly provided in the appointment form. An appointment of a proxy is revocable by the shareholder unless the appointment form conspicuously states that it is irrevocable and the appointment is coupled with an interest.
1.9    Proxies.    
 
The death or incapacity of the shareholder appointing a proxy does not affect the right of the Corporation to accept the proxy's authority unless notice of the death or incapacity is received by the Secretary or other officer or agent authorized to tabulate votes before the proxy exercises his or her authority under the appointment. An irrevocable appointment is revoked when the interest with which it is coupled is extinguished. A transferee for value of shares subject to an irrevocable appointment may revoke the appointment if the transferee did not know of its existence when the shares were acquired and the existence of the irrevocable appointment was not noted conspicuously on the certificate representing the shares or on the information statement for shares without certificates. Subject to any legal limitations on the right of the Corporation to accept the vote or other action of a proxy and to any express limitation on the proxy's authority appearing on the face of the appointment form, the Corporation is entitled to accept the proxy's vote or other action as that of the shareholder making the appointment. Any fiduciary who is entitled to vote any shares may vote such shares by proxy.
 
    The officer or agent having charge of the share transfer books of the Corporation shall make, at least ten days before each meeting of shareholders, a complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting or any adjournment thereof, with the address of and the number of shares held by each. For a period of ten days prior to the meeting, such list shall be kept on file at the registered office of the Corporation or at its principal office or at the office of its transfer agent or registrar and shall be subject to inspection by any shareholder at any time during usual business hours. Such list shall also be produced and kept open at the time and place of the meeting and shall be subject to the inspection of any shareholder during the whole time of the meeting for the purpose thereof. The original share transfer books shall be
1.10    Voting List.
prima facie evidence as to which shareholders are entitled to examine such list or transfer books or to vote at any meeting of the shareholders. The right of a shareholder to inspect such list prior to the meeting shall be subject to the conditions and limitations set forth by law. If the requirements of this section have not been substantially complied with, the meeting shall, on the demand of any shareholder in person or by proxy, be adjourned until such requirements are met. Refusal or failure to prepare or make available the shareholders' list does not affect the validity of action taken at the meeting prior to the making of any such demand, but any action taken by the shareholders after the making of any such demand shall be invalid and of no effect.
 
 
    The Corporation shall have a Board of Directors. All corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the authority of, and the business and affairs of the Corporation managed under the direction of, its Board of Directors, and such officers and agents as the Board of Directors may elect to employ, subject to any limitation set forth in the Articles of Incorporation.
2.1    General Powers.
 
The number of directors shall be eight (8). This number may be increased or decreased from time to time by amendment to these Bylaws to the extent permitted by law and by the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation. Except as provided in Section 2.5, directors shall be elected for terms of three (3) years in the manner set forth in the Articles of Incorporation and shall serve until the election of their successors. No decrease in the number of directors shall have the effect of changing the term of any incumbent director. Unless a director resigns or is removed by the majority vote of the shareholders, every director shall hold office for the term elected or until a successor to such director shall have been elected.
2.2    Number and Term.    
 
    Nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board of Directors or by any shareholder entitled to vote in the election of directors generally. However, any such shareholder may nominate one or more persons for election as directors at a meeting only if written notice of such shareholder's intent to make such nomination or nominations has been given, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Corporation not later than (i) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of shareholders 120 days in advance of such meeting or (ii) with respect to a special meeting of shareholders for the election of directors, the close of business on the seventh day following the date on which notice of such meeting is first given to shareholders.
2.2    Nomination of Directors.
 
Each such notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address of the shareholder who intends to make the nomination and of the person or persons to be nominated; (b) a representation that the shareholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the shareholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the shareholder; (d) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such shareholder as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities
and Exchange Commission, had the nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the Board of Directors; and (e) the consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation if so elected. The Chairman may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure.
 
    Except as provided in Section 2.5, the directors shall be elected by the holders of the common shares at each annual meeting of shareholders or at a special meeting called for such purpose. Those persons who receive the greatest number of votes shall be deemed elected even though they do not receive a majority of the votes cast. No individual shall be named or elected as a director without such individual's prior consent.
2.4    Election.
 
    The shareholders may remove one or more directors with or without cause. If a director is elected by a voting group, only the shareholders of that voting group may elect to remove the director. Unless the Articles of Incorporation require a greater vote, a director may be removed if the number of votes cast to remove the director constitutes a majority of the votes entitled to be cast at an election of directors of the voting group or voting groups by which such director was elected. A director may be removed by the shareholders only at a meeting called for the purpose of removing such director and the meeting notice must state that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is removal of the director.
2.5    Removal; Vacancies.
 
A vacancy on the Board of Directors, including a vacancy resulting from the removal of a director or an increase in the number of directors, may be filled by (i) the shareholders, (ii) the Board of Directors or (iii) the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors and may, in the case of a resignation that will become effective at a specified later date, be filled before the vacancy occurs but the new director may not take office until the vacancy occurs. Any director elected by the Board of Directors shall serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders or until the election of a successor to such director.
 
    An annual meeting of the Board of Directors, which shall be considered a regular meeting, shall be held immediately following each annual meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing officers and carrying on such other business as may properly come before the meeting. The Board of Directors may also adopt a schedule of additional meetings which shall be considered regular meetings. Regular meetings shall be held at such times and at such places, within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia, as the Chairman, the President or the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time. If no place is designated, regular meetings shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation.
2.6    Annual and Regular Meetings.
 
    Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the President, the Board of Directors or any two Directors of the Corporation and shall be held at such times and at such places, within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia, as the person or persons calling the meetings shall designate. If no such place is designated in the notice of a meeting, it shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation.
2.7    Special Meetings.
 
    No notice need be given of regular meetings of the Board of Directors.
2.8    Notice of Meetings.
 
Notices of special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be given to each director in person or delivered to his or her residence or business address (or such other place as the director may have directed in writing) not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the meeting by mail, email, messenger, telecopy, telegraph or other means of written communication or by telephoning such notice to the director. Any such notice shall set forth the time and place of the meeting.
 
    A director may waive any notice required by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws before or after the date and time stated in the notice and such waiver shall be equivalent to the giving of such notice. Except as provided in the next paragraph of this section, the waiver shall be in writing, signed by the director entitled to the notice and filed with the minutes or corporate records.
2.9    Waiver of Notice; Attendance at Meeting.
 
A director's attendance at or participation in a meeting waives any required notice to such director of the meeting unless the director, at the beginning of the meeting or promptly upon arrival, objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and does not thereafter vote for or assent to action taken at the meeting.
 
    A majority of the number of directors fixed in these Bylaws shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at a meeting of the Board of Directors. If a quorum is present when a vote is taken, the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present is the act of the Board of Directors. A director who is present at a meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board of Directors when corporate action is taken is deemed to have assented to the action taken unless (i) the director objects, at the beginning of the meeting or promptly upon arrival, to holding it or transacting specified business at the meeting or (ii) the director votes against or abstains from the action taken.
2.10    Quorum; Voting.
 
    The Board of Directors may permit any or all directors to participate in a regular or special meeting by, or conduct the meeting through the use of, any means of communication by which all directors participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. A director participating in a meeting by this means is deemed to be present in person at the meeting.
2.11    Telephonic Meetings.
 
    Action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if the action is taken by all members of the Board. The action shall be evidenced by one or more written consents stating the action taken, signed by each director either before or after the action is taken and included in the minutes or filed with the corporate records. Action taken under this section shall be effective when the last director signs the consent unless the consent specifies a different effective date in which event the action taken is effective as of the date specified therein provided the consent states the date of execution by each director.
2.12    Action Without Meeting.
 
    Directors shall not receive a stated salary for their services, but directors may be paid a fixed sum and expenses for attendance at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or any meeting of any Committee and such other compensation as the Board of Directors shall determine. A director may serve or be employed by the Corporation in any other capacity and receive compensation thereafter.
2.13    Compensation.
 
    The Chairman of the Board, if one is designated by the Board of Directors, shall preside at all meetings of the Board and of shareholders and perform such other duties as the Board shall assign from time to time. The Vice Chairman of the Board, if one is designated by the Board of Directors, shall at the request of or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, preside at meetings of the Board and of shareholders and, when requested to do so by the Board, shall perform all of the functions of the Chairman of the Board during the absence or incapacity of the latter.
2.14    Chairman and Vice Chairman.
 
 
    The Board of Directors may create one or more committees and appoint members of the Board of Directors to serve on them. Unless otherwise provided in these Bylaws, each committee shall have two or more members who serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The creation of a committee and appointment of members to it shall be approved by a majority of all of the directors in office when the action is taken.
3.1    Committees.
 
    To the extent specified by the Board of Directors, each committee may exercise the authority of the Board of Directors, except that a committee may not (i) approve or recommend to shareholders action that is required by law to be approved by shareholders, (ii) fill vacancies on the Board of Directors or on any of its committees, (iii) amend the Articles of Incorporation, (iv) adopt, amend, or repeal these Bylaws, (v) approve a plan of merger not requiring shareholder approval, (vi) authorize or approve a distribution, except according to a general formula or method prescribed by the Board of Directors or (vii) authorize or approve the issuance or sale or contract for sale of shares, or determine the designation and relative rights, preferences, and limitations of a class or series of shares, except that the Board of Directors may authorize a committee, or a senior executive officer of the Corporation, to do so within limits specifically prescribed by the Board of Directors.
3.2    Authority of Committees.
 
    The Board of Directors may appoint an Executive Committee consisting of not less than two directors which committee shall have all of the authority of the Board of Directors except to the extent such authority is limited by the provisions of Section 3.2.
3.3    Executive Committee.
 
    The Board of Directors shall appoint each year an Audit Committee, which shall be composed of at least three members of the Board, all of whom have no relationship to the Corporation that may, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, interfere with the exercise of their independence from management and the Corporation. In addition, the members of the Committee shall satisfy the requirements for audit committee membership imposed by the New York Stock Exchange on audit committees of listed public companies and any eligibility requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission with regard to companies whose securities are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Audit Committee shall assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its responsibility relating to the corporate accounting and reporting practices of the Corporation. Subject to the approval of the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee shall adopt and from time to time assess and revise a written charter which will specify how the Committee will carry out its
3.4    Audit Committee.
responsibilities and such other matters as the Board and the Audit Committee determine are necessary or desirable.
 
    The Board of Directors shall appoint each year a Nominating and Governance Committee, which shall be composed of at least three members of the Board, a majority of whom shall be independent directors (as defined in Section 6.1). The functions of this Committee shall include the following:
3.5    Nominating and Governance Committee.
 
(a)    Review the performance and contributions of existing directors for the purpose of recommending whether they be nominated for a successive term.
 
(b)    Recommend policies with regard to the size, composition and function of the Board.
 
(c)    Suggest persons to fill vacancies on the Board and maintain files on names submitted.
 
(d)    Assist the Chairman of the Board in carrying out an orientation program for new directors.
 
(e)    Review and recommend to the Board changes and improvements in the functioning of the Board.
 
(f)    Review and recommend compensation levels for non-management directors.
 
    The Board of Directors shall appoint each year a Compensation and Personnel Committee, which shall be composed of at least three members of the Board, all of whom shall be independent directors (as defined in Section 6.1), and which shall have the following duties:
3.6    Compensation and Personnel Committee.
 
(a)    Review and recommend to the Board current management compensation programs including salaries, bonuses and fringe benefits and the creation of new officerships.
 
(b)    Review and report to the Board on the funding and adequacy of existing retirement programs, and recommend new programs, if appropriate. (This responsibility does not include investment policy and other responsibilities of the Trustees of the Retirement Plan.)
 
(c)    Award and administer pursuant to existing authority, the Corporation's stock incentive programs and review and recommend similar future programs, if any.
 
(d)    Review top management organization, assist the CEO in determining that the Corporation has adequate depth and breadth of management to carry out its expansion programs and to provide for succession in the event of retirement or the unanticipated departure of a key executive.
 
(e)    Review the Corporation's programs for attracting, developing and compensating management personnel at lower and middle levels.
 
    The provisions of these Bylaws which govern meetings, action without meetings, notice and waiver of notice, and quorum and voting requirements of the Board of Directors shall apply to committees of directors and their members as well.
3.7    Committee Meetings; Miscellaneous
.
 
 
    The officers of the Corporation shall be a President, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer, and, in the discretion of the Board of Directors or the President, one or more Vice-Presidents and such other officers as may be deemed necessary or advisable to carry on the business of the Corporation. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
4.1    Officers.
 
    Officers shall be elected by the Board of Directors. The President may, from time to time, appoint other officers. Officers elected by the Board of Directors shall hold office, unless sooner removed, until the next annual meeting of the Board of Directors or until their successors are elected. Officers appointed by the President shall hold office, unless sooner removed, until their successors are appointed. The action of the President in appointing officers shall be reported to the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors after it is taken. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board of Directors or the President and such resignation shall be effective when notice is delivered unless the notice specifies a later effective date.
4.2    Election; Term.
 
The Board of Directors may remove any officer at any time, with or without cause. The President may remove any officer he appointed by the President at any time, with or without cause. Such action shall be reported to the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors after it is taken.
4.3    Removal of Officers.    
 
The President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and a member of the Board of Directors. The President, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Vice Chairman of the Board, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and shareholders, shall have power to call special meetings of the shareholders and directors for any purpose; may hire, appoint and discharge employees and agents of the Corporation and fix their compensation; may make and sign deeds, mortgages, deeds of trust, notes, leases, powers of attorney, contracts and agreements in the name and on behalf of the Corporation; shall have power to carry into effect all directions of the Board of Directors; and shall have general supervision of the business of the Corporation, except as may be limited by the Board of Directors, the Articles of Incorporation, or these bylaws.
4.4    Duties of the President.    
 
    Such Vice Presidents, in the order designated by the Board of Directors from time to time, shall exercise all of the functions of the President during the absence or incapacity of the latter and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors or the President.
4.5    Duties of the Vice President.
 
    The Secretary shall be the ex-officio clerk of the Board of Directors and shall give, or cause to be given, notices of all meetings of shareholders and directors, and all other notices required by law or by these Bylaws. The Secretary shall record
4.6    Duties of the Secretary.
the proceedings of the meetings of the shareholders, Board of Directors and committees of the Board of Directors, in books kept for that purpose and shall keep the seal of the Corporation and attach it to all documents requiring such impression unless some other officer is designated to do so by the Board of Directors. The Secretary shall also perform such other duties as may be assigned by the Board of Directors or the President.
 
    The Chief Financial Officer shall keep or cause to be kept full and accurate books of account, and may make and sign deeds, mortgages, deeds of trust, notes, leases, contracts and agreements in the name and on behalf of the Corporation. Whenever required by the Board of Directors or the President, the Chief Financial Officer shall render a financial statement showing all transactions of the Corporation and the financial condition of the Corporation.
4.7    Duties of the Chief Financial Officer.
 
    There may be one or more Assistant Secretaries who shall exercise all of the functions of the Secretary during the absence or incapacity of the latter and such other duties as may be assigned from time to time by the Board of Directors or the President.
4.8    Duties of the Assistant Secretary.
 
    The other officers of the Corporation, which may include Assistant Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, Assistant Treasurers, a Controller or Assistant Controllers, shall have such authority and perform such duties as shall be prescribed by the Board of Directors or by officers authorized by the Board of Directors to appoint them to their respective offices. To the extent that such duties are not so stated, such officers shall have such authority and perform the duties which generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the control of the President or the Board of Directors.
4.9    Duties of Other Officers.
 
    Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, each of the President or the Chief Financial Officer, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, may appoint from time to time himself or herself or any other person (or persons) proxy, attorney or agent for the Corporation to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as a shareholder, member or otherwise in any other corporation, partnership or other legal entity, domestic or foreign, whose stock, interests or other securities are held by the Corporation, or to consent in writing to any action by such other entity, or to exercise any or all other powers of this Corporation as the holder of the stock, interests or other securities of such other entity. Each of the President or the Chief Financial Officer may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent and may execute or cause to be executed on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal such written proxies, consents, waivers, or other instruments as may be deemed necessary or proper. Each of the President or the Chief Financial Officer may attend any meeting of the holders of stock, interests or other securities of any such other entity and vote or exercise any or all other powers of this Corporation as the holder of the stock, interest or other securities of such other entity.
4.10    Voting Securities of Other Corporations.
 
The compensation of all officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors or the Compensation and Personnel Committee.
4.11    Compensation.    
 
The Board of Directors may require that any or all officers, employees and agents of the Corporation give bond to the Corporation, with sufficient sureties, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of their respective offices or positions.
4.12    Bonds.    
 
 
    Shares of the Corporation shall, when fully paid, be evidenced by certificates containing such information as is required by law and approved by the Board of Directors. Alternatively, the Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of some or all shares without certificates. In such event, within a reasonable time after issuance, the Corporation shall mail to the shareholder a written confirmation of its records with respect to such shares containing the information required by law. When issued, certificates shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President or a Vice President designated by the Board and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and may (but need not) be sealed with the seal of the Corporation. The seal of the Corporation and any or all of the signatures on a share certificate may be facsimile. If any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such individual were such officer, transfer agent or registrar on the date of issue.
5.1    Form.
 
    The Board of Directors may make rules and regulations concerning the issue, registration and transfer of shares and/or certificates representing the shares of the Corporation. Transfers of shares and/or of the certificates representing such shares shall be made upon the books of the Corporation by surrender of the certificates representing such shares, if any, accompanied by written assignments given by the record owners thereof or their attorneys-in-fact.
5.2    Transfer.
 
    A lawful restriction on the transfer or registration of transfer of shares is valid and enforceable against the holder or a transferee of the holder if the restriction complies with the requirements of law and its existence is noted conspicuously on the front or back of any certificate representing the shares or has been otherwise communicated in accordance with the requirements of law. Unless so noted or communicated, a restriction is not enforceable against a person without knowledge of the restriction.
5.3    Restrictions on Transfer.
 
    The Corporation may issue a new share certificate or a written confirmation of its records with respect to shares in the place of any certificate theretofore issued which is alleged to have been lost or destroyed and may require the owner of such certificate, or such owner's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond, with or without surety, or such other agreement, undertaking or security as the Board of Directors shall determine is appropriate, to indemnify the Corporation against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss or destruction or the issuance of any such new certificate.
5.4    Lost or Destroyed Share Certificates.
 
    The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the owner thereof and, accordingly, shall not be bound
5.5    Registered Shareholders.
to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person. The Corporation shall not be liable for registering any transfer of shares which are registered in the name of a fiduciary unless done with actual knowledge of facts which would cause the Corporation's action in registering the transfer to amount to bad faith.
 
 
    As used in these Bylaws, the term "independent" has the following meaning: A director is considered to be independent if the individual has no relationship to the Corporation that may, in the business judgment of the Board of Directors, interfere with the exercise of his or her independence from management and the Corporation.
6.1    Certain Definitions.
 
    The corporate seal of the Corporation shall be circular and shall have inscribed thereon, within and around the circumference, the name of the Corporation. In the center shall be the word "SEAL".
6.2    Corporate Seal.
 
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of March of each year and end on the last day of February in the next succeeding year.
6.3    Fiscal Year.    
 
    The power to alter, amend or repeal the Bylaws or adopt new bylaws shall be vested in the Board of Directors unless otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation. Bylaws adopted by the Board of Directors may be repealed or changed or new bylaws adopted by the shareholders, and the shareholders may prescribe that any bylaw adopted by them may not be altered, amended or repealed by the Board of Directors.
6.4    Amendments.
 
    Any matters not specifically covered by these Bylaws shall be governed by the applicable provisions of the Code of Virginia in force at the time.
6.5    General.

Exhibit 3.4
 
 
 
A full statement of the designations, relative rights, preferences and limitations applicable to each class of stock that the Corporation is authorized to issue and the variations in rights, preferences and limitations determined for the shares of each series of Common Stock and Preferred Stock that the Corporation authorized to issue so far as the same have been fixed and determined (and the authority of the board of directors to determine variations in rights, preferences and limitations of subsequent series) will be furnished to the holder hereof without charge upon request in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation or to the Transfer Agent named on the face hereof.
 
This certificate also evidences and entitles the holder hereof to certain Rights as set forth in a Rights Agreement between CarMax, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, N.A. (the "Rights Agent"), dated as of May 21, 2002, as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to time hereafter (the "Rights Agreement"), the terms of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference and a copy of which is on file at the principal executive offices of CarMax, Inc Under certain circumstances, as set forth in the Rights Agreement, such Rights will be evidenced by separate certificates and will no longer be evidenced by this certificate. The Rights will expire at the Close of Business on May 21, 2012 unless exercised or redeemed prior thereto. CarMax, Inc. will mail to the holder of this certificate a copy of the Rights Agreement, as in effect on the date of mailing, without charge promptly after receipt of a written request therefor. Under certain circumstances set forth in the Rights Agreement, Rights issued to, or held by, any Person who is, was or becomes an Acquiring Person or any Affiliate or Associate thereof (as such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement), whether currently held by or on behalf of such Person or by any subsequent holder, may become null and void.
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws and regulations:
 
 
For value received____________ hereby sell, assign and transfer unto
 
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER
IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
 
 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
____________________________________________________________________________________Shares of the capital stock represented by the within Certificate, and do hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint_______________________________________________________________________ Attorney to transfer the said stock on the books of the within-named Corporation with full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated ___________________
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Richmond, Va., October 1, 2002  CarMax, Inc. (NYSE: KMX) announced today that its tax-free separation from Circuit City Stores, Inc. (NYSE: CC) was effective at 9:00 a.m. EDT and that it will now be an independent, separately traded public company.
 
CarMax, Inc. common stock will trade on the New York Stock Exchange with the ticker symbol "KMX."
 
"Today is an exciting day both for CarMax and for Circuit City," said W. Austin Ligon, president of CarMax. "The separation gives both companies the ability to concentrate solely on the specific needs of their businesses and to direct their resources to most effectively pursue each organization's current and future opportunities. We would like to thank the management of Circuit City and the more than 40,000 Circuit City Associates for their help, advice and support. We also are grateful to the Circuit City board of directors  both current and former members  for their consistent support during the decade of our development."
 
Investor Information About the Separation
 
In the separation, each share of outstanding CarMax Group Common Stock was redeemed in exchange for one share of new CarMax, Inc. common stock. Concurrent with the redemption, a stock dividend of 0.314 of a share of CarMax, Inc. common stock was distributed to shareholders of Circuit City Group Common Stock. Cash will be paid in lieu of the issuance of any fractional shares of CarMax, Inc. common stock.
 
CarMax is the nation's leading specialty retailer of used cars. It operates 37 used car superstores in 17 markets. CarMax also operates 17 new car franchises, 15 of which are integrated or co-located with its used car superstores. During the 12 months ended with CarMax's second quarter on August 31, 2002, the company sold 202,300 cars and light trucks, of which 178,800, or 88 percent, were used. For more information, access the company's Web site at .
www.carmax.com
 
This release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Additional discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projections, forecasts, estimates and expectations is contained in the CarMax, Inc. SEC filings.
 
 
Contact:    Dandy Barrett, Director of Investor Relations, (804) 935-4591

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
This AMENDED AND RESTATED TAX ALLOCATION AGREEMENT is dated as of October 1, 2002, by and among Circuit City Stores, Inc. ("Circuit City"), a Virginia corporation, and those corporations listed on Exhibit A hereto (together with Circuit City, the "Parties").
 
WHEREAS, as of the date hereof, Circuit City is the common parent of an affiliated group of domestic corporations within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Code, and the members of the affiliated group have heretofore joined in filing consolidated federal income Tax returns (the "Affiliated Group");
 
WHEREAS, Circuit City and members of its Affiliated Group previously executed that certain Tax Allocation Agreement dated as of May 1, 1994 (the "Original Tax Allocation Agreement");
 
WHEREAS, Circuit City intends to separate the business of the CarMax Group from the rest of Circuit City Stores (the "Separation") such that following the Separation CarMax, Inc., a Virginia corporation and currently a wholly-owned subsidiary of Circuit City, will become an independent separately traded public company;
 
WHEREAS, the Separation will be consummated by Circuit City Stores by means of (i) the redemption (the "Redemption") of all of the issued and outstanding shares of CarMax Group Stock in exchange for shares of common stock, par value $.50 per share, of CarMax (the "CarMax Common Stock") and (ii) the distribution ("the "Distribution") of CarMax Common Stock to the holders of Circuit City Group Stock as a pro rata dividend;
 
WHEREAS, as a result of the Separation, the Parties desire to amend and restate the Original Tax Allocation Agreement to provide for certain Tax matters, including the assignment of responsibility for the preparation and filing of Tax Returns, the payment of Taxes (including Taxes with respect to the Separation), and the prosecution and defense of any Tax controversies;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements, provisions and covenants contained in this Agreement, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
 
 
       Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not defined herein shall have the meanings that such terms have in the Separation Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
SECTION 1.1.
General
.
 
"Agreement" shall mean this Tax Allocation Agreement.
 
"Benefit Amount" shall mean the amount derived by adding (i) a Loss Company's net operating loss multiplied by the highest marginal corporate income tax rate applicable for the taxable period to (ii) total credits generated by the Loss Company.
 
"Business Day" or "Business Days" shall mean a day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which the Federal Reserve banks are authorized or required by law to close.
 
"CarMax" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals hereof.
 
"CarMax Group" shall mean CarMax, and each Subsidiary of CarMax, immediately after the Separation.
 
"Circuit City" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals hereof.
 
"Circuit City Group" shall mean Circuit City, and each Subsidiary of Circuit City, immediately after the Separation.
 
"Circuit City Return" shall mean the federal income tax return of Circuit City prepared on a stand-alone basis for all taxable periods.
 
"Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, including any successor legislation.
 
"Consolidated Return" shall mean any federal income tax return where Circuit City and at least one Subsidiary jointly file.
 
"Control" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 355(a) of the Code.
 
"Final Determination" shall mean the final resolution of liability for any Tax for any taxable period, including any related interest or penalties, by or as a result of: (1) a final and unappealable decision, judgment, decree or other order by any court of competent jurisdiction; (2) a closing agreement or accepted offer in compromise under Section 7121 or 7122 of the Code, or comparable agreement under the laws of other jurisdictions which resolves the entire Tax liability for any taxable period; or (3) any allowance of a refund or credit in respect of an overpayment of Tax, but only after the expiration of all periods during which such refund may be recovered by the jurisdiction imposing the Tax.
 
"Indemnified Liability" shall mean any liability imposed upon or incurred by any Member of the Circuit City Group for which it is indemnified and held harmless under Section 4.3(a).
 
"IRS" shall mean the Internal Revenue Service.
 
"Loss Company" shall mean any Member whose Separate Return shows a net operating loss.
 
"Member" shall mean each corporation that is a member of the Affiliated Group.
 
"Member Return" shall mean the federal income tax return of a Member prepared on a stand-alone basis for all taxable periods.
 
"Party" shall mean any of Circuit City or the corporations listed on Exhibit A hereto.
 
"Person" shall mean any natural person, corporation, business trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership or government, or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
 
"Proceeding" shall mean any audit, examination or other proceeding brought by a Taxing Authority with respect to Taxes.
 
"Prohibited Acts" shall have the meaning specified in Section 4.2.
 
"Ruling" shall mean the private letter ruling issued by the IRS to Circuit City dated April 10, 2002.
 
"Restricted Period" shall mean the two-year period commencing with the Separation.
 
"Separate Return" shall mean (i) for a Member other than Circuit City, the Member Return, after consideration of intercompany adjustments and eliminating entries, that is involved in the Consolidated Return and (ii) for Circuit City, the Circuit City Return, after consideration of intercompany adjustments and eliminating entries, that is involved in the Consolidated Return.
 
"Separation" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals hereof.
 
"Separation Agreement" shall mean the agreement between Circuit City and CarMax dated as of May 21, 2002.
 
"Separation Date" shall mean the Business Day on which the Separation is effected.
 
"Subsidiary" shall mean an entity more than 50% of the equity interest in which is owned directly or indirectly by Members.
 
"Tax" or "Taxes" shall mean any taxes, charges, fees, levies, imposts, duties, or other assessments of a similar nature, including without limitation, income, alternative or add-on minimum, gross receipts, excise, employment, sales, use, transfer, license, payroll, franchise, severance, stamp, occupation, windfall profits, withholding, Social Security, unemployment, disability, ad valorem, estimated, highway use, commercial rent, capital stock, paid up capital, recording, registration, property, real property gains, value added, business license, custom duties, or other tax or governmental fee of any kind
whatsoever, imposed or required to be withheld by any Taxing Authority including any interest, additions to tax, or penalties applicable thereto.
 
"Taxing Authority" shall mean any governmental authority (whether United States or non-United States, and including, without limitation, any state, municipality, political subdivision or governmental agency) responsible for the imposition of any Tax.
 
"Tax Due" shall mean all federal income taxes, alternative minimum taxes, environmental taxes, penalties, interest, and any other amount properly included as being due for the return in question net of all available credits and deductions. Tax Due may not be less than zero.
 
"Tax Returns" shall mean all reports or returns (including information returns) required to be filed or that may be filed for any period with any Taxing Authority in connection with any Tax or Taxes (whether domestic or foreign).
 
       References in this Agreement to any gender include references to all genders, and references to the singular include references to the plural and vice versa. The words "include", "includes" and "including" when used in this Agreement shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Agreement to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be deemed references to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, such Agreement. Unless the context otherwise requires, the words "hereof", "hereby" and "herein" and words of similar meaning when used in this Agreement refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular Article, Section or provision of this Agreement.
SECTION 1.2.
References; Interpretation
.
 
 
  
SECTION 2.1.
Allocation of Tax Liabilities.
 
(a) The Affiliated Group shall apportion its consolidated federal income tax liability among the Members on a separate company basis. Each Member shall be allocated liability for the Tax Due shown on its Separate Return.
 
For each taxable period, Circuit City will compute each Member's Tax Due on a Separate Return basis. Circuit City will then allocate the tax liability to each Member based on the following method:
 
 
 
 
(b)    If Tax Due on a Separate Return changes as the result of the filing of amended tax returns, carrybacks, carryovers, tax audits or for any other reasons, Circuit City shall recalculate the allocation of tax liability and pay to the applicable Member or the applicable Member shall pay to Circuit City, as the case may be, such amount within 90 days of the date such change is finally determined.
 
      Circuit City will calculate each Member's share of the Affiliated Group's estimated tax payments consistent with the provisions of Section 2.1 and each Member will pay that amount to Circuit City within a reasonable time before the due date of the estimated tax payment. Any amounts paid under this Section 2.2 shall be credited against the amounts payable to Circuit City pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof. Circuit City will solely be responsible for making the required tax payments and will be responsible for any penalty or interest due with respect to any amount not paid timely.
SECTION 2.2.
Estimated Tax Payments.
 
SECTION 2.3.
  Procedures.
 
(a)    The Affiliated Group shall file a Consolidated Return for each taxable year with respect to which this Agreement is in effect and for which the Affiliated Group is required or permitted to file a Consolidated Return, unless the Parties elect not to file a Consolidated Return by mutual consent. Circuit City shall execute and file any consents, elections, and other documents required or appropriate for the proper filing of such Returns.
 
(b)    Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties in writing, Circuit City will deliver to each Member for its review and consent (which will not be unreasonably withheld) a draft of its Member Return as prepared on a separate basis, together with an explanation of applicable intercompany adjustments and eliminating entries, upon the request of each Member, not later than 30 days prior to the due date, including extensions, for the applicable Consolidated Return. If the Parties cannot agree with respect to such Member Return, the Parties will negotiate in good faith to resolve any such disagreement, and if it cannot be resolved will be subject to the provisions of Section 2.5, provided that notwithstanding this Section 2.3 Circuit City shall be entitled to file any Tax Return before its due date (including extensions). Each Member will allow Circuit City access to all work papers and other materials needed in the preparation of the Member Return and warrants that it will respond to any information requested concerning these items on a timely basis. In connection with the foregoing and other matters covered by this Agreement, Circuit City agrees to furnish accounting, administrative, technical and any other similar tax and accounting assistance requested by any Member for an agreed-on fee that shall be not less than the cost of such services to Circuit City.
 
(c)    Circuit City will prepare the Circuit City Return and the Affiliated Group's Consolidated Return. Circuit City will be responsible for and bear all additional costs and efforts associated with the preparation of the Consolidated Return.
 
(d)    Circuit City will provide each Member with a complete copy of the Consolidated Return, upon the request of each Member, within a reasonable time after filing such return, and will grant each Member access to the work papers used to prepare the Member Return.
 
SECTION 2.4.
  Audit.
 
(a)    Circuit City will defend on audit the Consolidated Returns. Each Party agrees (1) to notify the other of any contact that may be construed as indicating that a Tax Authority may or will question, or is questioning the treatment of any items covered by this Agreement, and (2) keep the other party appropriately informed of all matters relating to audits, submissions to tax authorities, protests, conferences, litigation, and similar items.
 
(b)    Within 90 days after any amended return is filed, any audit is settled, or any other event that causes a change in a Consolidated Return is finally resolved, the Tax Due for the applicable return will be recomputed and payment made on the basis set forth in Section 2.1 hereof.
 
      If there is a conflict between any Member and Circuit City relating to any matters covered by this Agreement, such dispute shall be resolved by a mutually agreed upon nationally recognized firm of certified public accountants.
SECTION 2.5.
Dispute Resolution.
 
    This Article will apply to all taxable years for which the Affiliated Group files a Consolidated Return, and shall terminate except as otherwise specifically provided herein with respect to any party when such party ceases to be a Member of the Affiliated Group. Notwithstanding termination of this Agreement or the filing of Consolidated Returns, this Agreement shall continue in effect with respect to any payment or refunds due or other matters relating to all taxable periods (or portions thereof) for which this Agreement was in effect.
SECTION 2.6.
  Application.
 
      State and local taxes which are based upon net income shall be treated in a manner consistent with the methods applicable to federal income taxes if and when the Members file jointly on a consolidated, combined or unitary basis with respect to such taxes.
SECTION 2.7.
Miscellaneous.
 
 
  
SECTION 3.1.
Short Period.
 
For the taxable period that includes the Separation Date, Circuit City shall include the Members of the CarMax Group in the Consolidated Return of the Affiliated Group for the portion of the taxable year ending on the Separation Date (the "Short Period") on the basis of the closing of the books method. Any tax liability of the Members of the CarMax Group for the Short Period shall be determined under Article II hereof. To the extent permitted by law or administrative practice with respect to other Tax Returns, the taxable period of the Members of the CarMax Group shall be treated as ending on the Separation Date, and if the taxable period
does not end on the Separation Date, the Parties shall apportion all tax items between the portions of the taxable period before and after the Separations Date on the closing of the books method.
 
    Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, CarMax shall pay all Taxes and shall be entitled to receive and retain all refunds of Taxes with respect to taxable periods beginning on or after the Separation Date that are attributable to any Member of the CarMax Group.
SECTION 3.2.
  Post-Separation CarMax Group Taxes.
 
  
SECTION 3.3.
Post-Separation CarMax Group Tax Returns.
 
(a)    The filing of all Tax Returns relating to Members of the CarMax Group for periods beginning on or after the Separation Date shall be the responsibility of CarMax.
 
(b)    In the case of any partnership in which a Member of the CarMax Group is the designated Tax matters partner, CarMax shall cause such Member to continue to prepare and file such partnership's Tax Returns.
 
  
SECTION 3.4.
Manner of Preparation.
 
(a)    Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties in writing, with regard to Tax Returns to be prepared and filed by Circuit City or any other Member of the Circuit City Group with respect to which CarMax has liability under this Agreement, Circuit City shall submit such Tax Return to CarMax at least 30 days prior to the date on which such Tax Return is due (including extensions). CarMax shall submit its comments to Circuit City within 10 days of receipt of such Tax Return.
 
(b)    All Tax Returns filed on or after the Separation Date shall be prepared in a manner that is consistent with the rulings obtained from the IRS or any other Taxing Authority in connection with the Separation (in the absence of a Final Determination to the contrary) and shall be filed on a timely basis (including pursuant to extensions) by the Party responsible for such filing under this Agreement. In the absence of a Final Determination to the contrary and unless deviation from past practice would have no material adverse effect on either Circuit City or CarMax, all Tax Returns filed after the date of this Agreement shall be prepared on a basis consistent with the elections, accounting methods, conventions, assumptions and principles of taxation used for the most recent taxable periods for which Tax Returns of the Affiliated Group have been filed.
 
      In the event any net operating loss, capital loss or credit of the CarMax Group for any taxable period ending after the Separation Date is eligible to be carried back to a taxable period beginning prior to the Separation Date (any such amount, an "Eligible Amount"), CarMax shall, where applicable, elect to carry such Eligible Amount forward to subsequent taxable periods. If such Eligible Amount must be carried back to a taxable period of the Affiliated Group beginning prior to the Separation Date, any refund payable to CarMax shall be determined under the principles of Section 2.1 hereof.
SECTION 3.5.
Carrybacks.
 
  
SECTION 3.6.
Retention of Records; Access.
 
(a)    Circuit City and CarMax shall, and shall cause each of their Subsidiaries to, retain adequate records, documents, accounting data and other information (including computer data) necessary for the preparation and filing of all Tax Returns required to be filed by any Member of the Circuit City Group or the CarMax Group and for any Proceeding relating to such Tax Returns or to any Taxes payable by any Member of the Circuit City Group or the CarMax Group.
 
(b)    Circuit City and CarMax shall, and shall cause each of their Subsidiaries to, provide reasonable access to (i) all records, documents, accounting data and other information (including computer data) necessary for the preparation and filing of all Tax Returns required to be filed by any Member of the Circuit City Group or the CarMax Group and for any Proceeding relating to such Tax Returns or to any Taxes payable by any Member of the Circuit City Group or the CarMax Group and (ii) its personnel and premises, for the purpose of the review or audit of such reports or returns to the extent relevant to an obligation or liability of a Party under this Agreement and in accordance with the procedures provided in Section 7.4 of the Separation Agreement.
 
(c)    The obligations set forth above in Sections 3.6(a) and 3.6(b) shall continue until the longer of (i) the time of a Final Determination or (ii) expiration of all applicable statutes of limitations, to which the records and information relate. For purposes of the preceding sentence, each Party shall assume that no applicable statute of limitations has expired unless such Party has received notification or otherwise has actual knowledge that such statute of limitations has expired.
 
      The provisions of Article 7.2 and Exhibit D of the Separation Agreement relating to confidentiality of information, ownership of information, privileged information and related matters shall apply with equal force to any records and information prepared and/or shared by and among the Parties in carrying out the intent of this Agreement.
SECTION 3.7.
Confidentiality; Ownership of Information; Privileged Information.
 
 
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the provisions of this Article IV shall govern all matters among the Parties related to an Indemnified Liability.
 
      CarMax hereby confirms and agrees to comply with any and all covenants, agreements and representations in the Ruling applicable to CarMax or any member of the CarMax Group, including but not limited to agreeing that CarMax will not cease the active conduct of its trade or business within the meaning of Section 355(b) of the Code during the Restricted Period.
SECTION 4.1.
Compliance with the Ruling.
 
      CarMax agrees that during the Restricted Period it will not (i) merge or consolidate with or into any other corporation, (ii) liquidate or partially liquidate (within the meaning of such terms as defined in Section 346 and Section 302, respectively, of the Code), (iii) sell or transfer all or substantially all its assets (within the meaning of Rev. Proc. 77-
SECTION 4.2.
Opinion Requirement for Major Transactions Undertaken by CarMax During the Restricted Period.
37, 1977-2 C.B. 568) in a single transaction or series of related transactions, (iv) redeem or otherwise repurchase any of CarMax's capital stock other than pursuant to open market stock repurchase programs meeting the requirements of section 4.05(1)(b) of Rev. Proc. 96-30, 1996-1 C.B. 696, or (v) enter into any negotiations, agreements or arrangements with respect to transactions or events (including, without limitation, stock issuances, pursuant to the exercise of options or otherwise, option grants, capital contributions or acquisitions, or a series of such transactions or events, but excluding the Separation) that may cause the Separation to be treated as part of a plan pursuant to which one or more persons acquire directly or indirectly stock of CarMax representing a "50-percent or greater interest" therein within the meaning of Section 355(d)(4) of the Code (collectively the "Prohibited Acts"), unless CarMax first obtains an opinion of a nationally recognized law firm reasonably satisfactory to Circuit City, or a supplemental ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, that such transaction, and any transaction related thereto, will not affect the qualification of the Separation under Section 355 of the Code or cause the stock of CarMax distributed in the Separation to fail to be treated as qualified property pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code.
 
    If CarMax takes any action or enters into any agreement to take any action at any time on or following the Separation Date, including, without limitation, any Prohibited Act, or if there is a breach of Section 4.1 hereof, and the Separation shall fail to qualify under Section 355 of the Code or the stock of CarMax distributed in the Separation shall fail to be treated as qualified property pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code as a result of such action, actions or breach, then CarMax shall indemnify and hold harmless Circuit City and each Member of the Circuit City Group against any and all Taxes imposed upon or incurred by any Member of the Circuit City Group and against any liability imposed on Circuit City or any Member of the Circuit City Group for Taxes of any stockholder of Circuit City as a result. Circuit City and each other Member of the Circuit City Group shall be indemnified and held harmless under this Section 4.3 without regard to the fact that CarMax may have obtained an opinion or supplemental ruling pertaining to the action pursuant to Section 4.2 hereof.
SECTION 4.3.
  Indemnification.
 
  
SECTION 4.4.
Procedural Matters.
 
(a)    .    If either CarMax or Circuit City receives any written notice of deficiency, claim or adjustment or any other written communication from a Taxing Authority that may result in an Indemnified Liability, the Party receiving such notice or communication shall promptly give written notice thereof to the other Party, provided that any delay by Circuit City in so notifying CarMax shall not relieve CarMax of any liability to Circuit City hereunder except to the extent CarMax is materially and adversely prejudiced by such delay. Circuit City undertakes and agrees that from and after such time as Circuit City obtains knowledge that any representative of a Taxing Authority has begun to investigate or inquire into the Separation (whether or not such investigation or inquiry is a formal or informal investigation or inquiry), Circuit City shall (i) notify CarMax thereof, provided that any delay by Circuit City in so notifying CarMax shall not relieve CarMax of any liability to Circuit City hereunder except to the extent CarMax is materially and adversely prejudiced by such delay, (ii) consult with CarMax from time to time as to the conduct of such investigation or inquiry, (iii) provide CarMax with copies of all correspondence between Circuit City or its representatives and such Taxing Authority or any representative thereof pertaining to such investigation or inquiry and (iv) arrange for a representative of CarMax to be present at (but not participate in, except as
Notice
otherwise provided in Section 4.4(c) below) all meetings with such Taxing Authority or any representative thereof pertaining to such investigation or inquiry.
 
(b)    .    Promptly upon receipt of notice as provided in Section 4.4(a), CarMax shall confirm in writing to Circuit City that the liability asserted in the notice of deficiency, claim or adjustment or other written communication would, if imposed upon or incurred by any Member of the Circuit City Group, be an Indemnified Liability, unless CarMax believes in good faith that such liability would not be an Indemnified Liability in which case CarMax shall set forth in writing to Circuit City the grounds for such belief.
Written Acknowledgment
 
(c)    .    Any Proceeding that may result in an Indemnified Liability, which is acknowledged as such by CarMax pursuant to Section 4.4(b) hereof, shall be conducted in accordance with this Section 4.4(c) hereof.
Tax Proceedings Controlled by CarMax
 
(i)    Promptly upon CarMax's written acknowledgment that the asserted liability is an Indemnified Liability pursuant to Section 4.4(b) hereof, CarMax shall assume and direct the defense or settlement of the Proceeding, subject to the participation and consultation of Circuit City. If the Indemnified Liability is grouped with other unrelated asserted liabilities or issues in the Proceeding, Circuit City and CarMax shall use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Indemnified Liability to be the subject of a separate Proceeding. If such severance is not possible, CarMax shall assume and direct and be responsible only for the matters relating to the Indemnified Liability.
 
(ii)    Upon request, during the course of the Proceeding, CarMax shall from time to time furnish Circuit City with evidence reasonably satisfactory to Circuit City of its ability to pay the full amount of the Indemnified Liability. If at any time during such Proceeding, Circuit City reasonably determines, after due investigation, that CarMax may not be able to pay the full amount of the Indemnified Liability, if required, then CarMax shall be required to furnish a guarantee or performance bond satisfactory to Circuit City in an amount equal to the amount of the Indemnified Liability asserted by the Taxing Authority. If CarMax fails to furnish such guarantee or bond, Circuit City may assume control of the Proceedings in accordance with Section 4.4(d) hereof, , , that Circuit City will not settle any Proceeding of which it assumes control pursuant to this Section 4.4(c)(ii) without the consent of CarMax, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
provided
however
 
(iii)    CarMax shall pay all expenses related to the Indemnified Liability, including but not limited to fees for attorneys, accountants, expert witnesses or other consultants retained by it and, to the extent that any such expenses have been or are paid by Circuit City or any Member of the Circuit City Group, CarMax shall promptly reimburse Circuit City or such Member therefor.
 
(iv)    Circuit City shall not pay (unless otherwise required by a proper notice of assessment and after prompt notification to CarMax of Circuit City's receipt of notice and demand for payment), settle, compromise or concede any portion of the Indemnified Liability without the written consent of CarMax. Circuit City shall, at CarMax's sole cost (including but not limited to any reasonable out-of-pocket costs incurred by Circuit
City), take such action as CarMax may reasonably request (including but not limited to the execution of powers of attorney for one or more persons designated by CarMax and the filing of a petition, complaint, amended Tax Return or claim for refund) in contesting the Indemnified Liability. CarMax shall, on a timely basis, keep Circuit City informed of all developments in the Proceeding and provide Circuit City with copies of all pleadings, briefs, orders, and other written papers pertaining thereto.
 
(v)    Subject to satisfaction of the conditions herein set forth, CarMax may direct Circuit City to settle the Indemnified Liability on such terms and for such amount as CarMax may direct. Circuit City may condition such settlement on receipt, prior to the settlement, from CarMax of the indemnity payment with respect to the Indemnified Liability less any amounts to be paid directly by CarMax to the Taxing Authority. CarMax may direct Circuit City, at CarMax's expense, to pay an asserted deficiency for the Indemnified Liability out of funds provided by CarMax, and to file a claim for refund.
 
(d)    .    Should CarMax not provide Circuit City with the confirmation contemplated by Section 4.4(b) hereof within thirty (30) days following receipt of notice provided in Section 4.4(a) hereof or, following such confirmation, should CarMax fail within thirty (30) days following request therefor to furnish to Circuit City evidence of its ability to pay the full amount of the Indemnified Liability, or should Circuit City reasonably believe after due investigation that CarMax may not be able to pay the full amount of the Indemnified Liability, if required, and CarMax fails to furnish a guarantee or performance bond satisfactory to Circuit City in an amount equal to the amount of the Indemnified Liability then being asserted by the Taxing Authority, then Circuit City may assume control of the Proceeding upon the following terms: (1) Circuit City will diligently defend against the claim of the Taxing Authority, including the pursuit of the appeal of any adverse determinations to the appropriate tribunal (unless advised in writing by independent outside counsel at CarMax's sole cost in its reasonable judgment that Circuit City would not prevail upon any such appeal) and shall employ such resources, including independent counsel, in conducting such defense as are reasonably commensurate to the nature and magnitude of the claim; (2) Circuit City will consult with CarMax as to the conduct of all Proceedings, will provide CarMax with copies of all protests, pleadings, briefs, filings, correspondence and similar materials relative to the Proceedings and will arrange for a representative of CarMax to be present at (but not to participate in) all meetings with the relevant Taxing Authority and all hearings before any court; and (3) Circuit City will not settle, compromise or concede any claim that would result in an Indemnified Liability unless Circuit City has made the determination, and has been so advised in writing by independent outside counsel at CarMax's sole expense, that such settlement is reasonable in the circumstance. Subject to the above, any such Proceeding shall be controlled and directed exclusively by Circuit City and may be contested, defended, paid, settled, compromised or conceded by Circuit City and any related expenses incurred by any Member of the Circuit City Group, including but not limited to, fees for attorneys, accountants, expert witnesses or other consultants shall be reimbursed by CarMax, if CarMax admits or is found to have incorrectly failed to acknowledge the asserted liability as an Indemnified Liability as provided in Section 4.4(b) hereof; provided, however, that Circuit City will not be required to pursue the claim in the federal district court, Court of Claims or any state court if as a prerequisite to such court's jurisdiction, it is required to pay the asserted liability unless the funds necessary to invoke such jurisdiction are provided by CarMax at no cost to Circuit City.
Tax Proceedings Controlled by Circuit City
 
(e)    .    Unless otherwise agreed in writing, CarMax shall pay to Circuit City the amount with respect to an Indemnified Liability (less any amount paid directly by CarMax to the Taxing Authority or made available to Circuit City under Section 4.4(d) hereof) at least two (2) Business Days prior to the date payment of the Indemnified Liability is to be made to the Taxing Authority. Such payment shall be paid by CarMax to Circuit City by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account designated by Circuit City by written notice to CarMax prior to the due date of such payment. If CarMax delays making payment beyond the due date hereunder, CarMax shall pay interest to Circuit City on the amount unpaid at the rate of the monthly average of the "prime rate" as published in the Wall Street Journal for each day and the actual number of days for which any amount due hereunder is unpaid; provided, however, that this provision for interest shall not be construed to give CarMax the right to defer payment beyond the due date hereunder.
Time and Manner of Payment
 
(f)    .    Should Circuit City or any other Member of the Circuit City Group receive a refund in respect of amounts paid by CarMax to any Taxing Authority on Circuit City's behalf or paid by CarMax to Circuit City for payment to a Taxing Authority, or should any such amounts that would otherwise be refundable to Circuit City be applied or credited by the Taxing Authority to obligations of Circuit City or any other Member of the Circuit City Group unrelated to an Indemnified Liability, then Circuit City shall, promptly following receipt (or notification of credit), remit such refund (including any statutory interest that is included in such refund or credited amount) to CarMax.
Refund of Amounts Paid by CarMax
 
(g)    .    Subject to the provisions of Section 3.7 hereof, Circuit City and CarMax shall reasonably cooperate with one another in a timely manner in any Proceeding involving any matter that may result in an Indemnified Liability. Circuit City and CarMax agree that such cooperation shall include, without limitation, making available to the other party, during normal business hours, all books, records and information, officers and employees (without substantial interruption of employment) necessary or useful in connection with any such judicial or administrative Proceeding. The party requesting or otherwise entitled to any books, records, information, officers or employees pursuant to this Section 4.4(g) shall bear all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (except reimbursement of salaries, employee benefits and general overhead) incurred in connection with providing such books, records, information, officers or employees.
Cooperation
 
 
      This Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all previous negotiations, commitments and writings with respect to such subject matter.
SECTION 5.1.
Complete Agreement; Construction.
 
      This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become effective when one or more such counterparts have been signed by both Parties.
SECTION 5.2.
Counterparts.
 
      Except as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement, all covenants and agreements of the Parties contained in this Agreement shall survive the Separation Date in accordance with their terms.
SECTION 5.3.
Survival of Agreements.
 
      Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, all costs and expenses incurred on or prior to the Separation Date (whether or not paid on or prior to the Separation Date) in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery and implementation of this Agreement shall be charged to and paid by Circuit City. Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, the CarMax Group shall bear its own costs and expenses incurred after the Separation Date.
SECTION 5.4.
Expenses.
 
      All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and hand delivered or mailed by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) or sent by any means of electronic message transmission with delivery confirmed (by voice or otherwise) to the Parties at the following addresses (or at such other addresses for a Party as shall be specified by like notice) and will be deemed given on the date on which such notice is received:
SECTION 5.5.
Notices.
 
To any Member of the Circuit City Group:
 
Circuit City Stores, Inc.
9950 Mayland Drive
Richmond, VA 23233-1464
Attn: General Counsel
 
To any Member of the CarMax Group:
 
CarMax, Inc.
4900 Cox Road
Glen Allen, VA 23060-3314
Attn: General Counsel
 
      The failure of any Party to require strict performance by the other Party of any provision in this Agreement will not waive or diminish that Party's right to demand strict performance thereafter of that or any other provision hereof.
SECTION 5.6.
Waivers.
 
      This Agreement may not be modified or amended except by an agreement in writing signed by the Parties hereto; provided that this Agreement may be amended or terminated by the Members of the Circuit City Group for any taxable period beginning after the Separation without the consent of any Member of the CarMax Group.
SECTION 5.7.
Amendments.
 
      This Agreement shall not be assignable, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by any Party hereto without the prior written consent of the other Party hereto, and any attempt to assign any rights or obligations arising under this Agreement without such consent shall be void.
SECTION 5.8.
Assignment.
 
      The provisions to this Agreement shall be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
SECTION 5.9.
Successors and Assigns.
 
      Any new Members of the Affiliated Group shall automatically become a Party to this Agreement upon becoming Members.
SECTION 5.10.
Additional Members.
 
      This Agreement is solely for the benefit of the Parties hereto and should not be deemed to confer upon third parties any remedy, claim, liability, reimbursement, claim of action or other right in excess of those existing without reference to this Agreement.
SECTION 5.11.
Third Party Beneficiaries.
 
      Titles and headings to sections herein are inserted for the convenience of reference only and are not intended to be a part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
SECTION 5.12.
Title and Headings.
 
      The Exhibits to this Agreement shall be construed with and as an integral part of this Agreement to the same extent as if the same had been set forth verbatim herein.
SECTION 5.13.
Exhibits.
 
      THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA, WITHOUT REGARD TO ITS CONFLICTS OF LAW RULES.
SECTION 5.14.
GOVERNING LAW.
 
      The Parties hereto hereby agree that the appropriate forum and venue for any disputes between any of the Parties hereto arising out of this Agreement shall be any state or federal court sitting in Richmond, Virginia and each of the Parties hereto hereby submits to the personal jurisdiction of any such court. The foregoing shall not limit the rights of any party to obtain execution of judgment in any other jurisdiction.
SECTION 5.15.
Consent to Jurisdiction.
 
      In the event any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein and therein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. The Parties shall endeavor in good-faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions, the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions.
SECTION 5.16.
Severability.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
Circuit City Stores West Coast, Inc., a California corporation
 
Abbott Advertising Agency, Inc., a Virginia corporation
 
Circuit City Properties, Inc., a Virginia corporation
 
Patapsco Designs, Inc., a Maryland corporation
 
First North American National Bank, a Georgia corporation
 
Northern National Insurance Ltd., a Bermuda limited company
 
CC Distribution Company of Virginia, Inc., a Virginia corporation
 
Carmax, Inc., a Virginia corporation
 
Carmax Auto Superstores, Inc., a Virginia corporation (formerly Acme Commercial Corporation)
 
Carmax Auto Superstores West Coast, Inc., a California corporation (formerly C-Max Auto Superstores, Inc.)
 
CFC II, Inc., a Virginia corporation
 
CPD, Inc., a Virginia corporation
 
DC Funding International, Inc., a Delaware corporation
 
Tyler International Funding, Inc., a Delaware corporation
 
Sky Venture Corporation, a Virginia corporation

 
Exhibit 99.3
 
 
This TRANSITION SERVICES AGREEMENT is dated as of October 1, 2002 by and between Circuit City Stores, Inc., a Virginia corporation ("Circuit City Stores") and CarMax, Inc., a Virginia corporation ("CarMax").
 
 
WHEREAS, Circuit City Stores and CarMax have entered into the Separation Agreement dated as of May 21, 2002 (the "Separation Agreement"), providing for the conveyance by Circuit City Stores and certain Subsidiaries of Circuit City Stores to CarMax of all of the assets and liabilities attributed to the CarMax Group to be held by CarMax or one or more of the CarMax Subsidiaries.
 
WHEREAS, CarMax has been operated by its parent Circuit City Stores, and has been dependent upon Circuit City Stores for various support and services since CarMax's inception;
 
WHEREAS, in connection with the implementation of the Separation Agreement, CarMax will need certain administrative and infrastructure support in connection with the ongoing administrative and operation of CarMax;
 
WHEREAS, as a condition to the respective obligations of the parties to the Separation Agreement to consummate the transactions contemplated therein, the Separation Agreement requires the execution and delivery of this Agreement pursuant to which Circuit City Stores agrees to provide CarMax certain transition services upon the terms set forth herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual promises set forth hereinafter, the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
 
.  Terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Separation Agreement. In addition, the following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:
Section 1.1
    Definitions
 
"Fully Loaded Cost" shall mean, with respect to any service supplied, the sum of (i) the allocable portion of all direct and indirect costs included in the functional department's cost center relating to services supplied, determined in accordance with Circuit City Stores' cost accounting practices on the date hereof, plus (ii) an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the amount in clause (i).
 
"Service" or "Transition Services" shall mean each distinct service or all services listed in Column A of Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 attached hereto.
 
 
    .  This Agreement shall be effective as of the time and day on which Circuit City Stores redeems its CarMax Group Stock in exchange for shares of CarMax Common Stock pursuant to the Separation Agreement ("Redemption Date") and shall continue, with respect to each Service listed on Schedule 1, through the date or for the period shown in Column B for such Service. At the option of CarMax, exercised by no less than thirty (30) days written notice to Circuit City Stores, the Service(s) specified in such written notice shall continue for a renewal period of three (3) months. The provision of Service(s) specified in each written notice may be extended for consecutive three (3) month periods (or portions thereof); ; , that in no event will any Transition Service be provided for more than twelve (12) months from the Redemption Date for the Services listed on Schedule 1. CarMax may, upon ninety (90) days written notice to Circuit City, terminate the utilization of any Service listed on Schedule 1 during the initial term or any renewal period.
Section 2.1
Duration of Services on Schedule 1
provided
however
 
    .  This Agreement shall be effective as of the Redemption Date and shall continue, with respect to each Service listed on Schedule 2, through the date or for the period shown in Column B of Schedule 2 for such Service. Computer Center and Telecommunications shall be considered "Extended Services." At the option of CarMax, exercised by no less than thirty (30) days written notice to Circuit City Stores, the Service(s) specified in such written notice shall continue for a renewal period of six (6) months. The provision of Service(s) specified in each written notice may be extended for consecutive six (6) month periods (or portions thereof); , that in no event will any Transition Service be provided for more than twenty-four (24) months, or forty-eight (48) months for Extended Services, from the Redemption Date for the Services listed on Schedule 2. CarMax may, upon ninety (90) days written notice to Circuit City Stores, terminate the provision of any Service listed on Schedule 2 during the initial term or any renewal period.
Section 2.2
Duration of Services on Schedule 2
provided; however
 
    .  Employees of Circuit City or its Affiliates who are made available to provide the Services shall at all times remain the employees of Circuit City or its Affiliates and shall not at any time be deemed the agents, representatives, employees or leased employees of CarMax. Circuit City is solely responsible for designating the individual employees to be made available to CarMax to provide the Services, and for the wages, salary, benefits, expenses or other costs (including workers' compensation claims or any other employment related liability) (collectively, "employee costs") associated with such individuals. All other employees or personnel provided by CarMax or any third party in connection with this Transition Services Agreement shall remain the employees or personnel of CarMax or such third party and shall not be deemed the agents, representatives, employees or leased employees of Circuit City or its Affiliates. Neither Circuit City nor its Affiliates shall be responsible for the employee costs associated with work to be performed by such employees or personnel of CarMax or any third party. Neither party shall be responsible for the acts of or for supervising the other party's employees or personnel.
Section 2.3
Employees
 
      Notwithstanding the foregoing but except with respect to the Extended Services, CarMax shall use all reasonable best efforts to establish, as quickly as reasonably possible, their own systems and employees to
Section 2.4
Efforts for Alternative Sources of Services
.
perform the Services supplied to them by Circuit City Stores and, upon at least ninety (90) days prior written notice to Circuit City Stores, to terminate its use of each such respective Service.
 
 
    .  Circuit City Stores agrees to provide timely to CarMax the Transition Services listed on Schedule 1 and 2 to the extent requested by CarMax, at levels consistent with and in no event to exceed the extent to which such Transition Services had been made available to CarMax before the date hereof.
Section 3.1
Performance
 
      The cost of each Service shall be the Fully Loaded Cost.
Section 3.2
Cost of Services
.
 
      Circuit City shall provide an invoice to CarMax with respect to each calendar month in which Transition Services are provided. The invoice shall set forth in detail the Transition Services performed during that month and cost associated with each Transition Service. Invoices shall be payable by CarMax within thirty (30) days of the invoice date (the "Payment Date").
Section 3.3
Invoice and Payment
.
 
      Any payment due and unpaid under this Transition Services Agreement by the Payment Date shall bear interest from the Payment Date at a rate per annum of one percent (1%) over the prime rate of interest published by SunTrust Bank, or its successor, on the first day of each month, for large commercial lenders. In addition, Circuit City may, after giving thirty (30) days written notice to CarMax, suspend Services under this Transition Services Agreement until Circuit City has been paid in full all amounts due for Transition Services rendered and expenses incurred. Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything else to the contrary, there shall be no suspension of Transition Services during which there is a good faith dispute concerning any invoice.
Section 3.4
Late Payment
.
 
      CarMax understands that during the term of this Agreement, Circuit City Stores may decide to have all or a portion of any particular Service performed in whole or in part, by a third-party provider. In such event, Circuit City Stores may assign all or a portion of its obligations hereunder relating to such Service to such third-party provider; , that no such assignment (i) shall diminish in any material respect the nature, scope or timeliness of the Transition Services to be provided by Circuit City Stores or (ii) increase the amounts payable by CarMax for Transition Services under 3.2. CarMax agrees to provide such third-party provider CarMax's specified service level requirements for the remainder of the term of this Agreement, such service level to reflect the service level then provided by Circuit City Stores for the remainder of the term of this Agreement.
Section 3.5
Performance by Third Parties
.
provided
however
 
Section 3.6
    Force Majeure
.
 
(a)    Circuit City Stores may suspend or reduce, in whole or in part, the performance or supply of any or all of the Transition Services or any of its obligations hereunder to the extent it is materially impeded in its ability to provide such Service as a result of an act of God, labor dispute, war, riot, fire or other casualty, acts of any governmental body, or other cause or conditions beyond such party's reasonable control (each a "Force Majeure Event").
Circuit City Stores shall use its reasonable best efforts to restore the suspended or reduced Transition Service. Any Transition Services not provided by reason of this section shall be promptly resumed upon the elimination of the Force Majeure Event.
 
(b)    During any period in which any Transition Services are reduced or suspended pursuant to Section 3.6(a), CarMax shall not be obligated to remit payment for the reduced, suspended or terminated portion of such Transition Services.
 
  
Section 3.7
Limitation of Liability of Circuit City Stores
.
 
(a)    Neither Circuit City Stores, nor its Affiliates, Subsidiaries, employees or agents shall be liable to CarMax for, and CarMax shall release and discharge and shall indemnify and hold harmless Circuit City Stores, its Affiliates, Subsidiaries, employees and agents from any and all claims, liabilities, actions, suits, judgments, losses, injuries, damages (including, without limitation, incidental or consequential damages), costs and expenses arising out of or connected with any act or omission of Circuit City Stores, its Affiliates, Subsidiaries, employees or agents, with respect to the Transition Services listed on Schedule 1 or Schedule 2, or any failure to provide the Transition Services listed on Schedule 1 or Schedule 2 to CarMax other than (i) a refusal by Circuit City Stores in material breach of this Agreement or (ii) gross negligence or willful misconduct of Circuit City Stores, its employees or agents.
 
(b)    CarMax shall not use the Transition Services listed on Schedule 1 or Schedule 2 for any purpose other than the operation of their internal business. CarMax will indemnify Circuit City Stores against any loss, damage or expense incurred by Circuit City Stores as a result of CarMax's misuse or employment of any such Transition Service.
 
    The parties expressly agree that no warranty shall be implied under this Agreement, whether warranties of utility or of fitness for any particular purpose or of merchantability or of any other type and, further, that no warranties of any sort are made herein.
Section 3.8
  Absence of Warranties
.
 
 
    All notices and other communications required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing (including telex, facsimile transmission or similar writing) and shall be given:
Section 4.1
  Notices
.
 
 
Circuit City Stores, Inc.
9950 Mayland Drive
Richmond, Virginia 23233-1464
Attn: Michael T. Chalifoux
Fax: (804) 418-8286
 
 
CarMax, Inc.
4900 Cox Road
 
Glen Allen, Virginia 23060-3314
Attn: Keith D. Browning
Fax: (804) 967-2978
 
or to such other person or to such other address or facsimile number as the party to whom such notice is to be given may have furnished the other parties in writing by like notice. If mailed, any such communication shall be deemed to have been given on the third business day following the day on which the communication is posed by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested). If given by any other means it shall be deemed to have been given when delivered to the address specified in this Section.
 
      The headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Section 4.2
Interpretation
.
 
      In addition to the maintenance of the data relating to each Service that shall be transferred to CarMax as described in Attachment A, Circuit City shall maintain books, records, documents and other evidence, consistent with normal accounting procedures and practices, sufficient to accurately and properly reflect the performance of the Services hereunder and the amounts due Circuit City hereunder. CarMax or its representatives shall have access at all reasonable times to such records for the purposes of auditing and verifying the accuracy of the invoices submitted by Circuit City. Circuit City shall maintain such books and records five years from the completion of all Services.
Section 4.3
Books and Records
.
 
      Each party acknowledges that it may be necessary to disclose Confidential Information (as defined below) to the other in order to facilitate the provision of Services under this Transition Services Agreement. Except as agreed by the parties pursuant to this Transition Services Agreement, each party agrees not to use, copy, disclose to third parties (other than consultants engaged in the provision of Services) or to publish any Confidential Information of the other which is (i) confidential under applicable law, or (ii) proprietary and confidential information including, without limitation, the following: (a) any trade secret, know-how, invention, software program, application, documentation, schematic, procedure, contract, information, knowledge, data, process, technique, design, drawing, program, formula or test data, work in progress, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, financial, sales, supplier, customer, employee, investor, or business information, whether in oral, written, graphic or electronic form; or (b) any document, diagram, photograph, drawing, computer program or other communication that is either conspicuously marked "confidential", known or reasonably should have been known by the other party to be confidential, or is of a proprietary nature, and is learned or disclosed in the course of discussions, studies or other work undertaken between the parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Parties shall have the right to disclose any information necessary to comply with any request or order of a Governmental Authority or court. Nothing in this Section shall be deemed to limit or restrict in any way the right of a Governmental Authority to exercise its authority to audit or review the books or records of a party or any Affiliate of a party, but the party must advise the other party of the pending disclosure as described below.
Section 4.4
Confidentiality
.
 
If a party intends to disclose Confidential Information to any Governmental Authority or court, the Disclosing party shall, to the extent doing so does not violate any such request or order, advise the Non-Disclosing party prior to disclosure and cooperate in any effort by the Non-Disclosing party to minimize the amount of Confidential Information disclosed, secure confidential treatment of such Confidential Information, or seek permission from such Governmental Authority
or court to revise the Confidential Information in a manner consistent with the interests of the Parties and in a manner which meets the requirements of the Governmental Authority or court.
 
Except to the extent information is confidential under applicable law, any information transmitted to either party will not be deemed Confidential Information if that information is:
 
(a)    In the receiving party's possession without restriction on disclosure prior to disclosure hereunder;
 
(b)    At the time of disclosure, generally available to the public without restriction on disclosure except to the extent then applicable corporate policies on confidentiality and handling of proprietary information would have prevent disclosure;
 
(c)    After disclosure, generally available to the public without restriction on disclosure, by publication or otherwise, through no fault of receiving party; or
 
(d)    After the time of disclosure, received from a third party who imposes no obligation of confidentiality and who, insofar as the receiving party can reasonably determine, did not acquire any such Confidential Information directly or indirectly from the other party subject to requirements of confidentiality.
 
The provisions of this Section shall survive the termination of the Transition Services and shall bind the parties and their successors and assigns for a period of five (5) years after initial disclosure of such Confidential Information. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent information may not be disclosed under applicable law, such information shall remain subject to this confidentiality provision until no longer protected under applicable law.
 
    This Transition Services Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the domestic laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, without regard to its conflicts of law rules.
Section 4.5
  Governing Law and Venue
.
 
      Any term or provision of this Transition Services Agreement that is held invalid or unenforceable in any situation shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining terms and provisions hereof or the validity or enforceability of the offending term or provision in any other situation; , that the remaining terms and provisions of this Transition Services Agreement may be enforced only to the extent that such enforcement in the absence of any invalid terms and provisions would not result in (a) deprivation of a party of a material aspect of its original bargain upon execution of this Transition Services Agreement, (b) unjust enrichment of a party, or (c) any other manifestly unfair or inequitable result.
Section 4.6
Severability
.
provided, however
 
      This Agreement (i) together with the Separation Agreement, constitutes the entire agreement relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all other prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and in the event of a conflict between this Agreement and the Separation Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall control; (ii) is an independent agreement, the rights and obligations of the parties to which shall not be affected by any provision of, or remedy arising under or with respect to, the Separation Agreement or any other agreement between the parties, except to the extent expressly provided in any such agreement;
Section 4.7
Miscellaneous
.
and (iii) is not intended to and shall not confer upon any other person or business entity, other than the parties hereto or any permitted assignees, any rights or remedies with respect to the subject matter hereof.
 
      This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties.
Section 4.8
Counterparts
.
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized officers.
 

 
Exhibit 99.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AGREEMENT, dated as of October 1, 2002 (the "Effective Date") is by and between Circuit City Stores, Inc., a Virginia corporation ("Circuit City"), and CarMax, Inc., a Virginia corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Circuit City ("CarMax").
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Circuit City has determined that it is in the best interests of Circuit City and its shareholders to separate CarMax from Circuit City's remaining businesses such that CarMax will become an independent, separately traded public business (the "Separation");
 
WHEREAS, in furtherance of the foregoing, Circuit City and CarMax have entered into a Separation Agreement, dated as of May 21, 2002 (the "Separation Agreement"), and other specific agreements that will govern certain matters relating to the Separation and the relationship of Circuit City, CarMax, and their respective Affiliates following the Separation Date; and
 
WHEREAS, Circuit City and CarMax have agreed to enter into this Agreement to provide for the allocation of assets, liabilities, and responsibilities with respect to certain employee compensation and benefit plans and programs between them.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
 
 
 
For purposes of this Agreement the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The exercise price per share of Circuit City Stores Common Stock subject to a Circuit City Stores Option will be equal to the product obtained by multiplying (a) times (b) where "(a)" equals the exercise price per share of the Circuit City Group Option with respect to which an adjustment is being made immediately before the CarMax Dividend, and "(b)" equals the quotient obtained by dividing the Circuit City Post-Dividend Stock Value by the Circuit City Pre-Dividend Stock Value.
 
The number of shares of Circuit City Stores Common Stock subject to a Circuit City Stores Option will equal the product obtained by multiplying (a) times (b) where "(a)" equals the number of shares of Circuit City Group Common Stock covered by the Circuit City Group Option, and "(b)" equals the quotient obtained by dividing the Circuit City Pre-Dividend Stock Value by the Circuit City Post-Dividend Stock Value.
 
 
 
 
 
The exercise price per share of CarMax Common Stock subject to a CarMax Option will be equal to the product obtained by multiplying (a) times (b) where "(a)" equals the exercise price per share of the Circuit City Group Option with respect to which an adjustment is being made immediately before the CarMax Dividend, and "(b)" equals the quotient obtained by dividing the CarMax Post-Dividend Stock Value by the Circuit City Pre-Dividend Stock Value.
 
The number of shares of CarMax Common Stock subject to a CarMax Option will equal the product obtained by multiplying (a) times (b) where "(a)" equals the number of shares of Circuit City Group Common Stock covered by the Circuit City Group Option, and "(b)" equals the quotient obtained by dividing the Circuit City Pre-Dividend Stock Value by the CarMax Post-Dividend Stock Value.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The exercise price per share of Circuit City Common Stock subject to a Circuit City Stores Option will be equal to the product obtained by multiplying (a) times (b) where "(a)" equals the exercise price per share of the CarMax Group Option with respect to which an adjustment is being made immediately before the CarMax Dividend, and "(b)" equals the quotient obtained by dividing the Circuit City Post-Dividend Stock Value by the CarMax Pre-Dividend Stock Value.
 
The number of shares of Circuit City Common Stock subject to a Circuit City Stores Option will equal the product obtained by multiplying (a) times (b) where "(a)" equals the number of shares of CarMax Group Common Stock covered by the CarMax Group Option, and "(b)" equals the quotient obtained by dividing the CarMax Pre-Dividend Stock Value by the Circuit City Post-Dividend Stock Value.
 
 
The Circuit City Stores Options and CarMax Options shall not be exercisable until the adjustments provided in Sections 5.3(a)-(d) have been made.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Employee Benefits Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 

 
Exhibit 99.5
 
 
This Confidentiality Agreement ("Agreement") is made as of October 1, 2002 by and among Circuit City Stores, Inc., ("Circuit City") a Virginia corporation and CarMax, Inc., a Virginia corporation ("CarMax"), either Circuit City or CarMax as a "Party" or collectively, as the "Parties".
 
 
A.    Circuit City and CarMax have executed a Separation Agreement dated as of May 21, 2002 (the "Separation Agreement"), pursuant to which CarMax and the CarMax Subsidiaries separated from Circuit City and the Circuit City Subsidiaries (the "Spin-off"). For purposes of this Agreement, Circuit City and the Circuit City Subsidiaries collectively, or CarMax and the CarMax Subsidiaries collectively, shall each be referred to as a "Party".
 
B.    Prior to the Spin-off, CarMax existed as part of Circuit City, resulting in the sharing and consolidation of Confidential Information (as defined below).
 
C.    As a result of the historical co-mingling of Circuit City and CarMax information prior to the Spin-off, there are paper records, localized electronic records (stored on individual PC's or discs) or information stored in other media containing Confidential Information of the other Party.
 
D.    Further, pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Circuit City will provide certain transition services to CarMax following the Spin-off pursuant to Transition Services Agreement between Circuit City and CarMax. As a result, certain Circuit City employees will have access to CarMax's Confidential Information.
 
E.    The Parties agree that full segregation of all co-mingled Confidential Information that pre-dates the Spin-off is not practical and that the disclosure of Confidential Information during the provision of services pursuant to the Transition Services Agreement or other Ancillary Agreements may be unavoidable.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the joint nature of the disclosure and the business relationship between the parties, it is hereby agreed as follows:
 
1.      For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Confidential Information" shall mean proprietary and confidential business information obtained by either Party at any time including, without limitation, the following:
Definition
.
(a)    Any trade secret, know-how, invention, software program, application, documentation, schematic, procedure, contract, information, knowledge, data, process, technique, design, drawing, program, formula or test data, work in progress, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, financial, sales, supplier, customer, employee, investor, or business information, whether in oral, written, graphic or electronic form;
 
(b)    Any non-public business information, including, without limitation, personnel data; correspondence with governmental agencies; historical customer information and data; historical cost information such as budgets and operating expenses and capital costs; and projected capital additions and operating cost information;
 
(c)    Any document, diagram, photograph, drawing, computer program or other communication that is either conspicuously marked "confidential", or is known or reasonably should have been known by the Party in possession to be confidential; and
 
(d)    Any advice, information, exhibits, documentation or any other information that a Party reasonably expects would be protected by attorney-client privilege or work product doctrine or other applicable privileges.
 
2.      Circuit City acknowledges that it is authorized to access and use the Confidential Information of CarMax for the sole purpose of performing the services it is contractually bound to provide to such parties, specifically with respect to carrying out its obligations under the Transition Services Agreement and other agreements related to the Separation Agreement. Otherwise, each of the Parties agrees that, with respect to the Confidential Information of the other Party, it will not (i) take any affirmative action to access such Confidential Information; (ii) directly or indirectly utilize any such Confidential Information in its business; (ii) manufacture and/or sell any product or provide any service that is based in whole or in part on such Confidential Information; (iii) copy or modify such Confidential Information, or any copy or portion thereof; or (iv) disclose such Confidential Information to any third party.
Prohibition of Use
.
 
3.      Prior to the Separation Agreement, Circuit City and CarMax may have exchanged information within their consolidated corporate structure without restriction. Such information supplied to one Party by the other prior to the execution of this Agreement shall nonetheless be considered Confidential Information (except as specifically excluded pursuant to Section 5 below) for the purposes of this Agreement and shall be subject to the terms and conditions hereof.
Prior Disclosures
.
 
4.      Prior to any action by the either Party that could reasonably be expected to lead to or that would constitute waiver of attorney-client privilege or work product doctrine, the Party disclosing the information must give prior notice to the other Party as soon as possible.
Specific Restriction Regarding Waiver of Attorney-Client Privilege or Work Product Doctrine
.
 
5.      The Parties agree that their mutual covenants with respect to each other's Confidential Information shall not apply to any information, data or other materials imparted to the extent that any of the following conditions apply:
Nonprotected Information.
 
(a)    The information is, or any time hereafter becomes, available to the public or contained in a filing to a government agency without breach of this Agreement by the receiving Party;
 
(b)    The information is obtained by the recipient from any other person, firm or company having no obligation to or relationship with the disclosing Party;
 
(c)    The information is developed by or for recipient independently of information received from one or more of the Parties hereto; or
 
(d)    The information is more than ten (10) years old.
 
6.      No Party hereto shall be liable for disclosure of Confidential Information of the other Party if made in response to a valid order of a court or authorized agency of government; , that five (5) days' notice first be given to the other Party so a protective order, if appropriate, and may be sought by such Party with the cooperation of the other Party.
Court-Ordered Disclosure.
provided
however
 
7.    .  Notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, the terms of this Agreement shall not be deemed to be the Confidential Information of any Party hereto, and each Party shall have the right to disclose the terms hereof to third parties in its own discretion.
Disclosure of Confidentiality Agreement Terms
 
8.      Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to convey to the recipient of Confidential Information any right, title, interest or copyright in any Confidential Information, or any license to use, sell, exploit, copy or further develop any such Confidential Information. This Agreement does not in any way bind the Parties to enter into a business relationship of any type with each other.
No Conveyance or License
.
 
9.      The Parties agree that a breach by either Party of this Agreement with respect to the Confidential Information of the other Party to this Agreement will cause irreparable damages to the other Party (the "Non-Breaching Party") for which recovery of money damages would be inadequate, and that the Non-Breaching Party shall, therefore, be entitled to obtain timely injunctive relief to protect its rights under this Agreement in addition to any and all remedies available at law without the need to post a bond or other undertaking.
Injunctive Relief
.
 
10.      This Agreement has been made under and shall be governed by, interpreted and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia without regard to the conflict of laws rules thereof. All disputes hereunder shall be resolved in the applicable state or Federal courts of Virginia. The parties consent to the jurisdiction of such courts, agree to accept service of process by mail, and waive any jurisdictional or venue defenses otherwise available.
Governing Law and Choice of Forum
.
 
11.      This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Parties hereto, and their heirs, administrators, successors and assigns.
Agreement Binding on Successors
.
 
12.      The failure of either Party at any time or times to demand strict performance by the other Party of the terms, covenants, or conditions set forth in this Agreement shall not be construed as a continuing waiver or relinquishment thereof, and either Party may at any time demand strict and complete performance of such terms, covenants, and conditions.
Waiver
.
 
13.      This Agreement is personal to both Parties and may not be assigned by any act of either Party or by operation of law unless in connection with a transfer of substantially all the assets of such Party as a transfer to its affiliate.
Assignability
.
 
14.      If any provision hereof is held invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect the validity or operation of any other provision, and such invalid provision shall be deemed to be severed from the Agreement.
Severability
.
 
15.      Paragraph headings contained herein are solely for the purpose of aiding in speedy location of subject matter and are not in any sense to be used in the construction of this Agreement. Accordingly, in case of any questions with respect to the construction of this Agreement, it is to be construed as though paragraph headings had been omitted.
Significance of Headings
.
 
16.      This Agreement constitutes the final, exclusive, and complete expression of the agreement of the Parties hereto, and it embodies all of the terms and conditions of the Agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement is expressly intended to replace and supersede all prior and contemporaneous agreements, proposals, negotiations, representations, and warranties, if any, between the Parties whether oral or written with respect to the subject matter hereof. There are no agreements, representations, or warranties that have not been included in this Agreement with respect to the subject matter hereof. It represents the result of arms length negotiation between the Parties and shall be interpreted and construed without regard to any presumption or other rule requiring construction against either Party.
Integration
.
17.    .  This Agreement shall not be modified or amended except in writing signed by the parties hereto and specifically referring to this Agreement.
Amendments
 
18.      This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
.
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed by the parties hereto as of the latest date set forth below.
 
 
Date: October 1, 2002


