FILE:KMX/KMX-8K-20051228131434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On December 23, 2005, CarMax, Inc. (the "Company") issued stock options to Austin Ligon, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, to purchase 199,481 shares of common stock of the Company at an exercise price of $28.26 per share, which exercise price was equal to the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the date of grant (the "New Option Grant"). Twenty-five percent of these options become vested and exercisable on each of the first four anniversaries of the date of grant. The term of the option grant is eight and a half years. The description of the New Option Grant herein is a summary of the material terms of the grant and does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of incentive award agreement between the Company and Mr. Ligon for the New Option Grant which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
On October 6, 2005, Mr. Ligon announced that he would retire as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company in calendar year 2006 following the naming of his successor. In reviewing Mr. Ligon's compensation-related agreements in connection with his retirement, the Company discovered that the terms of the incentive award agreements used to grant options to Mr. Ligon in fiscal year 2005 and fiscal year 2006, respectively (the "Prior Option Grants"), did not accurately reflect the terms intended by the Company. Specifically, the terms of the Prior Option Grants provide that Mr. Ligon or his representatives must exercise vested options within three months of the effective date of his retirement, or within one year of his death or disability, or such options will expire. The Company had intended that the Prior Option Grants be consistent with the Company's fiscal year 2004 option grants, which provide that all options vested at the time of retirement, death or disability be exercisable at any time before the expiration date of the option grant. In order to fulfill this intent, the Company is issuing the New Option Grant with terms that provide that all options vested at the time of retirement, death or disability be exercisable at any time before the expiration date of the option grant. The terms of the New Option Grant, the Prior Option Grants and the Company's fiscal year 2004 option grants provide that all unvested options immediately vest upon termination of employment of the option holder due to retirement, death or disability. The Prior Option Grants remain effective and are not affected in any way by the New Option Grant.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
December 23, 2005
 
Austin Ligon
12800 Tuckahoe Creek Parkway
Richmond, Virginia 23238
 
Dear Austin:
 
The Board of Directors of CarMax, Inc. ("CarMax" or the "Company") wants to provide you with an opportunity to share in the success of our Company.
 
Accordingly, I am pleased to inform you that, as of December 23, 2005 (the "Grant Date"), the Board of Directors exercised its authority pursuant to the CarMax, Inc. Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and granted you to purchase shares of the Common Stock of CarMax, Inc. ("CarMax Options") as set forth herein. The CarMax Options are qualified for Incentive Stock Option tax treatment. Limited stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), described below, were also granted in connection with these options. The CarMax Options and SARs are subject to the provisions of the Plan, as amended from time to time. All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given to them in the Plan.
non-statutory options
not
 
 
Vesting of Options
 
Your date for measuring vesting ("Vesting Date") is December 23, 2005. Except as otherwise provided in this agreement, the CarMax Options will vest according to the following schedule: one-fourth on December 23, 2006, one-fourth on December 23, 2007, one-fourth on December 23, 2008, and one-fourth on December 23, 2009 provided you continue to be employed by the Company on such dates. In other words, on December 23, 2006, and on each of the three succeeding anniversaries of that date, you shall become entitled to exercise cumulatively a total of 25%, 50%, 75% and 100%, respectively, of the CarMax Options.
 
Termination of Options
 
The unexercised CarMax Options shall terminate upon the earliest to occur of the following conditions:
 
 
 
 
Exercise of Options
 
When the CarMax Options are exercisable, you may purchase shares of CarMax Common Stock under your CarMax Option by:
 
 
 
 
Death, Disability or Retirement
 
If your employment by the Company terminates because you die, become disabled or retire (in accordance with retirement eligibility provisions of the Company's retirement plan) all of your CarMax Options covered by this Agreement will become immediately vested, effective as of the date of the termination of your employment, and you, your personal representative, distributees, or legatees, as applicable, may exercise your vested CarMax Options at any time before the Expiration Date; provided, however, no CarMax Options may be exercised prior to the expiration of six (6) months from the date of grant.
 
Change of Control; SARs
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, if a Change of Control, as defined in the Plan, occurs, all unvested CarMax Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and you shall have the right during the period beginning on the date of the Change of Control and ending on the Expiration Date to exercise any and all vested CarMax Options in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; provided, however, that CarMax Options that were granted within six (6) months of the Change of Control shall not be exercisable until six (6) months following the date of grant.
 
Pursuant to this Agreement, you have been granted one (1) SAR for every CarMax Option granted to you hereunder. Following a Change of Control, you may choose to exercise the SARs granted hereunder in lieu of exercising your vested CarMax Options. Doing so will relieve you of the obligation to pay for the exercise of your CarMax Options as described above and, instead, will allow you to receive a cash payment of the net value of your SARs as calculated below without having to remit any payment to the Company. The SARs granted in connection with the CarMax Options are limited SARs and may be exercised in accordance with the Plan and the terms hereof as follows:
 
 
 
a) The closing price of the Company's Common Stock on the exchange on which it is then traded on the date immediately preceding the date of exercise; or
 
b) The highest closing price of the Company's Common Stock on the exchange on which it is then traded, during the 90 days immediately preceding the Change of Control.
 
 
 
Stock Splits
 
If the number of outstanding shares of the Company's Common Stock is increased or decreased as a result of a stock dividend, stock split, subdivision or consolidation of shares, or other similar change in capitalization, the number of CarMax shares for which you have unexercised CarMax Options and the exercise price will automatically be adjusted, as provided in the Plan, (i) so as to preserve the ratio that existed immediately before the change between the number of such shares and the total number of shares of CarMax stock previously outstanding, and (ii) so that your aggregate option price remains the same; provided, however, that CarMax will not be required to issue any fractional shares upon exercise of your CarMax Options as a result of such adjustment.
 
Non-Transferability; Legal Fees
 
The CarMax Options are not transferable by you other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and are exercisable during your lifetime only by you. The grant of these CarMax Options does not obligate CarMax to continue your employment after the grant. If there is any litigation involving CarMax Options, each party will bear its own expenses, including all legal fees, except that in the event of an action brought by you under this Agreement following a Change in Control, then insofar as such action is not deemed to be frivolous by the arbitrator, the Company shall bear all expenses related to the arbitration, including all legal fees incurred by you. The Compensation and Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors shall have the authority to interpret and administer this Agreement.
Please indicate your acceptance of the terms and conditions pertaining to the CarMax Options granted herein by signing your name in the space provided below and returning one copy to the attention of Keith D. Browning, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer. When signed by you, this letter will become a Stock Option Agreement between you and CarMax. Such acceptance places no obligation or commitment on you to exercise the CarMax Options.
This letter will be not be effective as a Stock Option Agreement unless it is signed and returned to Keith D. Browning, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer at the CarMax Corporate Headquarters (12800 Tuckahoe Creek Parkway, Richmond, VA 23238), as soon as possible, but in no event later than January 10, 2006
.
 
Please return this Agreement in a separate envelope via inter-company mail.
Do not use overnight mail to return the Agreement.
 
Sincerely,
 
Keith D. Browning
Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer
 


