FILE:KMX/KMX-8K-20060330090802.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Richmond, Va., March 30, 2006 - CarMax, Inc. (NYSE:KMX) today reported record results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended February 28, 2006.
Sales Components
(1)
Percent calculations and amounts shown are based on amounts presented on the attached consolidated statements of earnings and may not sum due to rounding.
(2)
Other sales and revenues include extended service plan revenues, service department sales, and third-party finance fees.
CarMax, Inc.
Page 2 of 11
Retail Vehicle Sales Changes
Retail Vehicle Sales Mix
Unit Sales
CarMax, Inc.
Page 3 of 11
 
Average Selling Prices
Earnings Highlights
(1)
All per share amounts are presented on a fully diluted basis.
Selected Operating Ratios
(1)
Calculated as the ratio of the applicable amount to net sales and operating revenues.
(2)
Operating profit equals earnings before interest and income taxes.
Gross Profit
(1)
Calculated as category gross profit divided by its respective units sold, except the other and the total categories, which are divided by total retail units sold.
(2)
Calculated as a percentage of its respective sales or revenue.
CarMax, Inc.
Page 4 of 11
 
Fourth Quarter Business Performance Review
Sales
. As expected, our fourth quarter used unit comps reflected the challenging comparison with last years 12% growth, said Austin Ligon, president and chief executive officer. The comparison was further adversely affected by a decline in sales financed by our subprime provider, from approximately 5% of used units in last years fourth quarter to 2% in this years quarter. This decline resulted from program changes implemented in certain states by the subprime provider that narrowed the definition of vehicles eligible for subprime financing. The new restrictions made this business less economically attractive to us, and we chose to limit our subprime business in order to preserve margins and profits. Absent the decline in subprime-financed sales, used unit comps would have been approximately flat with last years fourth quarter.
Our wholesale sales continued to be exceptionally strong, said Ligon. Unit sales were up sharply as we benefited from a strong increase in appraisal traffic, driven in part we believe by our continued focused We Buy Cars advertising; a further increase in our buy rate; and the expansion of our store base. Wholesale vehicle sales also benefited from the strong wholesale pricing environment and from the record dealer attendance at our on-site wholesale auctions.
Total new vehicle sales were similar to last years fourth quarter, reflecting the general performance of the brands we represent, said Ligon. New car sales growth slowed in the second half of fiscal 2006, following the end of the employee price discount programs last fall. Other sales and revenues benefited from fourth quarter increases in extended service plan revenues and service department sales, and from the decrease in subprime-financed sales. The third-party subprime finance provider purchases these finance contracts at a discount, which is reflected as an offset to other sales and revenues.
Margins
. As in the third quarter, our retail used vehicle gross profit per car remained under some pressure as a result of the strong wholesale pricing environment and our desire to price our retail cars as competitively as possible to support sales, Ligon said. We have been able to offset some of that pressure with the success of our in-store appraisal strategy. Fourth quarter wholesale gross profit was higher than we expected as we benefited from the exceptionally strong wholesale price environment, especially in the older, higher mileage cars that make up the majority of what we sell at our wholesale auctions. We normally expect wholesale prices and margins to be the strongest in the fourth quarter, as this coincides with the time of the year that the industry is building inventory for the higher-volume spring and summer selling seasons. This year, wholesale prices were unusually strong in the fall and winter, and the combination of continuing strong industry demand and the seasonal trends lifted them even higher in the fourth quarter. We believe, as do others in the wholesale industry, that Hurricane Katrina contributed significantly to the disproportionate rise in the value of older wholesale cars. The other sales and revenues gross profit increase resulted from the lower level of subprime-financed sales and continued favorable ESP penetration.
CarMax Auto Finance
. CAF income benefited from the growth in total sales and managed receivables and a favorable valuation adjustment. This years fourth quarter CAF income included a benefit of 2 cents per share, the majority of which related to lowering the loss rate assumptions on previously securitized receivables. The lower loss rates reflected both fewer defaults and an improvement in recoveries, which benefited from the strength in wholesale vehicle pricing.
The gains on loans originated and sold as a percent of loans sold was 3.6% compared with 3.7% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. The reported gains as a percent of loans sold of 3.8% in this years quarter includes the benefit of the favorable valuation adjustment.
CarMax, Inc.
Page 5 of 11
 
SG&A
. 
Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales and operating revenues declined slightly to 10.2% in this years quarter from 10.3% in last years quarter, said Ligon. The modest amount of SG&A leverage was primarily the result of lower-than-expected healthcare costs and property taxes. Absent these favorable items, the SG&A ratio would have been slightly higher than in last years quarter, reflecting the decline in used unit comps and the larger percentage of our store base comprised of stores not yet at basic maturity. At the end of the fiscal year, 46% of our stores were less than four years old, compared with 41% at the end of last year.
 
Earnings
. We finished the fourth quarter with earnings of 38 cents per share, well above the top end of our original expectation range, despite being near the low end of our used unit comp range, said Ligon. The continued outperformance of our wholesale business, combined with CAFs favorable loss performance and the modest SG&A leverage allowed us to finish the year with strong earnings momentum. For the year, we are pleased with the 30% increase in earnings per share. Even excluding the favorable items at CAF in both years, we increased earnings per share by approximately 24%.
Fiscal 2007 Expectations
Store Openings and Capital Expenditures.
Weve made a minor modification to our previously announced fiscal 2007 store opening plan, said Ligon. The opening date for our Los Angeles satellite in Torrance, previously scheduled for late in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, has slipped into fiscal 2008. We hope to be able to accelerate the opening date of another store and open approximately 11 new superstores in fiscal 2007, representing another 16% increase in our store base. Once again, the majority of planned openings are in mid-sized markets, and they are balanced between new and existing markets. Also included in the opening plan is our first small market store, which will be opened in Charlottesville, Va. Over the next few years, the performance of this store should help us better understand our longer-term opportunities in small markets. We expect to open approximately four stores in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, three stores late in the third quarter, and four stores late in the fourth quarter. Given their timing, we expect little, if any, contribution to fiscal 2007 sales and profits from the stores scheduled to open in the fourth quarter.
In April, we will open our first CarMax Car Buying Center, which will be in the Atlanta market on a major auto row not currently served by CarMax, said Ligon. The store will be staffed with CarMax buyers, who will conduct appraisals and purchase vehicles on site using the same processes and systems utilized in our used car superstores. We do not plan to sell cars at this store. This test store is part of our long-term program to increase both appraisal traffic and our retail vehicle sourcing self-sufficiency.
In fiscal 2007, we anticipate gross capital expenditures of approximately $300 million, said Ligon. Planned expenditures primarily relate to new store construction and land purchases associated with future year store openings. Compared with the roughly $200 million of spending in fiscal 2006, the fiscal 2007 capital spending estimate primarily reflects a higher level of real estate purchases for store development in future years, as well as the timing of construction activities.
Fiscal 2007 Sales
. We currently anticipate comparable store used unit growth for fiscal 2007 in the range of 2% to 8%, said Ligon. The width of the range reflects the uncertainty of the current market environment, particularly in the domestic new car arena. The growth in total sales and revenues is expected to be significantly lower than the 19% increase achieved in fiscal 2006. This decrease reflects the difference in store opening patterns. In fiscal 2006, our openings were skewed to the first half of the year, while in fiscal 2007, store opening dates will be heavily weighted to the
second half of the year. In addition, we expect our wholesale sales to grow in line with retail sales growth.
 
CarMax, Inc.
Page 6 of 11
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
. CarMax will adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, which modifies SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, ending May 31, 2006. SFAS 123R requires that all stock-based compensation, including grants of employee stock options, be accounted for using a fair-value-based method. The effect of the adoption of this accounting change on CarMaxs fiscal 2007 diluted earnings per share is expected to be a reduction of approximately 18 cents to 20 cents. As required by SFAS 123R, this estimate includes expensing all outstanding unvested options held by the retiring chief executive officer, as well as accelerating the expensing of new options for associates who will reach retirement eligibility earlier than the end of the normal vesting period. The estimate does not include any expense that may result from an additional equity grant, if any, issued to a new chief executive officer. SFAS 123R will be adopted on a modified retrospective basis and results for prior periods will be restated, enhancing comparability. Prior period restatements will reflect compensation costs in the amounts previously reported in the pro forma footnote disclosures under the provisions of SFAS 123. The effect of the restatement on fiscal 2006 results is estimated to be a 12-cent reduction from $1.39 to $1.27 in diluted earnings per share.
Fiscal 2007 Earnings Per Share
. Before the estimated effect of expensing stock-based compensation, we expect fiscal 2007 earnings per share in the range of $1.45 to $1.65, representing EPS growth in the range of 4% to 19%, said Ligon. Including the estimated expense for stock-based compensation, but not including any expense from an additional equity grant, if any, for a new CEO, we expect to report fiscal 2007 earnings per share in the range of $1.25 to $1.47, reflecting EPS performance of in the range of -2% to 16%. This expectation recognizes estimated stock-based compensation expense of 12 cents for fiscal 2006 and approximately 18 to 20 cents for fiscal 2007. Excluding the 9 cents of favorable CAF items in fiscal 2006 and including the estimated expense for stock-based compensation, earnings per share growth would be in the range of 6% to 25%.
We expect modest improvement in used vehicle profits per unit as wholesale pricing moderates, said Ligon. Based on the learning weve achieved and the changes weve made to manage our wholesale operations, we believe that in the first half of fiscal 2007, well see wholesale gross profit per unit increase and wholesale sales grow at about the same rate as our retail sales. During the third quarter, we expect wholesale sales to continue to grow, but gross margins to moderate in comparison to the unusual circumstances in last years third quarter. In the fourth quarter, we expect both wholesale sales growth and margins to moderate. Overall, we expect wholesale sales and gross profit to increase in line with used retail sales growth.
 
We expect CAF income to be slightly below the fiscal 2006 level, Ligon said, reflecting the headwind created by the 9 cents per share of favorable CAF items reported in fiscal 2006. CAF gain spreads are expected to be at the low end of our normalized 3.5% to 4.5% range in the first half of fiscal 2007. The gain spread could improve modestly in the second half of the year, depending on interest rate trends.
If we perform at or above the mid-point of our expected used unit comp range, Ligon continued, excluding the expense related to stock-based compensation, we would expect to begin to get a modest amount of SG&A leverage in fiscal 2007. This includes absorbing an expected increase in costs of approximately $5 million associated with moving our data center. We expect our effective tax rate for fiscal 2007 will be similar to the fiscal 2006 rate.
As previously announced, in an effort to focus on longer-term performance, we will no longer be issuing quarterly guidance, said Ligon. As we report our quarterly results, we plan to comment on how our performance is tracking against our annual guidance.
 
CarMax, Inc.
Page 7 of 11
 
First Quarter Fiscal 2007 Earnings Release Date
CarMax currently plans to release first quarter sales and earnings results on Wednesday, June 21, 2006, before the opening of the New York Stock Exchange. The company will host a conference call for investors at 9:00 a.m. Eastern time on that date. Information on this conference call will be available on the companys investor information home page at http://investor.carmax.com in early June.
Conference Call Information
CarMax will host a conference call for investors at 9:00 a.m. Eastern time today, March 30, 2006. Domestic investors may access the call at 1-888-298-3261 (conference I.D.: 4712553). International investors should dial 1-706-679-7457 (conference I.D.: 4712553). A live webcast of the call will be available on the companys investor information home page at http://investor.carmax.com or at www.streetevents.com
.
A replay of the call will be available beginning at approximately 11:00 a.m. Eastern time on
March 30, 2006, and will run through midnight,
April 6, 2006. Domestic investors may access the recording at 1-800-642-1687 (conference I.D.: 4712553) and international investors at
1-706-645-9291 (conference I.D.: 4712553). A replay of the call also will be available on the companys investor information home page or at www.streetevents.com.
About CarMax
CarMax, a
Fortune
500 company and one of the
Fortune
2006 100 Best Companies to Work For, is the nations largest retailer of used cars. Headquartered in Richmond, Va., CarMax currently operates 67 used car superstores in 31 markets. CarMax also operates seven new car franchises, all of which are integrated or co-located with its used car superstores. During the twelve month period ended February 28, 2006, the company retailed 289,888 used cars, which is 93% of the total 310,789 vehicles the company retailed during that period. For more information, access the CarMax website at www.carmax.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The company cautions readers that the statements contained herein regarding the companys future business plans, operations, opportunities, or prospects, including without limitation any statements or factors regarding expected sales, margins, or earnings, are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based upon managements current knowledge and assumptions about future events and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results.
Among the factors that could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements are the following: changes in the general U.S. or regional U.S. economy; intense competition within the companys industry; significant changes in retail prices for used and new vehicles; a reduction in the availability or the companys access to sources of inventory; the significant loss of key employees from the company's store, regional, and corporate management teams; the efficient operation of the companys
CarMax, Inc.
Page 8 of 11
 
information systems; changes in the availability or cost of capital and working capital financing; the companys ability to acquire suitable real estate; the occurrence of adverse weather events; seasonal fluctuations in the companys business; the geographic concentration of the companys superstores; and the regulatory environment in which the company operates.
For more details on factors that could affect expectations, see the companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2005, and its quarterly or current reports as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Contacts:
Investors and Financial Media:
 
Dandy Barrett, Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations, (804) 935-4591
Celeste Gunter, Manager, Investor Relations, (804) 935-4597
General Media:
Lisa Van Riper, Assistant Vice President, Public Affairs, (804) 935-4594
Trina Lee, Public Relations Manager, (804) 747-0422, ext. 4197
 
CarMax, Inc.
Page 9 of 11
(1)
Percents are calculated as a percentage of net sales and operating revenues and may not equal totals due to rounding.
 
CarMax, Inc.
Page 10 of 11
 
 


