FILE:KMX/KMX-8K-20060428162239.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
On April 24, 2006, each of the board of directors (the Board) of CarMax, Inc. (the Company) and the Compensation and Personnel Committee of the Board (the Committee) met and addressed the following issues.
Annual Performance-Based Bonus Plan
The Committee recommended and the Board approved certain amendments to the CarMax, Inc. Annual Performance-Based Bonus Plan, as amended and restated (the Bonus Plan), which amendments revised the definition of Subsidiary contained in Section 2(r) and corrected certain typographical errors within the Bonus Plan. The Bonus Plan, as amended and restated effective April 24, 2006, is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1, and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
The Committee also established pre-tax net income goals for fiscal year 2007 under the Bonus Plan, which is maintained by the Company for its employees, including its named executive officers. Under the Bonus Plan, the Committee fixes pre-tax net income goals for the Company for each fiscal year. Participants receive a predetermined percentage of their base pay as an annual cash bonus depending upon the pre-tax net income level achieved by the Company.
The Committee also authorized the payment under the Bonus Plan by the Company of annual cash bonus awards for fiscal year 2006 to the Companys named executive officers. These annual cash bonus awards were earned under the Bonus Plan based upon the achievement of certain fiscal year 2006 pre-tax net income levels, which were previously established by the Committee. Because the Company exceeded its pre-tax earnings goals for fiscal year 2006, as well as the pre-tax earnings goal for the maximum bonus pay-out for fiscal year 2006, the named executive officers earned and received 150% of their respective target bonuses. The annual cash bonus awards for fiscal year 2006 for the Companys named executive officers are set forth in the table below.
 
 
 
Annual Base Salaries
Pursuant to the Compensation and Personnel Committee Charter, the Committee reviewed and approved the annual base salaries to be paid to the Companys named executive officers for fiscal year 2007. The annual base salary for fiscal year 2007, effective as of March 26, 2006, for each of the Companys named executive officers is set forth in the table below. Mr. Ligons annual base salary for fiscal year 2007 remains unchanged from his annual base salary for fiscal year 2006; at the January 23, 2006 Committee meeting, the Committee decided that Mr. Ligons annual base salary will remain unchanged through the date of his retirement, which Mr. Ligon announced in October 2005.
2002 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated
Pursuant to the terms of the CarMax, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the SIP), the Committee recommended and the Board approved certain amendments to the SIP. These amendments were made in response to the adoption of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the SIP 409A Amendments). Specifically, the SIP 409A Amendments: (i) revised the definition of Fair Market Value contained in Section 2(k) of the SIP; (ii) incorporated the revised Fair Market Value definition into the calculation of the value of the Company Stock (as defined in the SIP) contained in Section 8(a)(iii) of the SIP; and (iii) revised the Change in Capital Structure section of the SIP (as set forth in Section 13 of the SIP) to comply with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. Additionally, a revision was made to the definition of Change of Control contained in Section 2(d) of the SIP to clarify the terms used in that definition. The description of the amendments to the SIP herein is a summary of the amendments and does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the SIP, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.2 and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
 
 
Additionally, the Committee approved the form of notice of stock option grant filed herewith as Exhibit 10.3. This form of notice of stock option grant will be used by the Committee to grant options to acquire Company common stock to certain named and other executive officers of the Company pursuant to the SIP, and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
2002 Non-Employee Directors Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated
Pursuant to the terms of the CarMax, Inc. 2002 Non-Employee Directors Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the NEDSIP), the Committee recommended and the Board approved certain amendments to the NEDSIP. These amendments were made in response to the adoption of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the NEDSIP 409A Amendments). Specifically, the NEDSIP 409A Amendments: (i) revised the definition of Fair Market Value contained in Section 2(i) of the NEDSIP; and (ii) revised the Change in Capital Structure section of the NEDSIP (as set forth in Section 14 of the NEDSIP) to comply with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. Additionally, a revision was made to the definition of Change of Control contained in Section 2(c) of the NEDSIP to clarify the terms used in that definition. The description of the amendments to the NEDSIP herein is a summary of the amendments and does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the NEDSIP, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.4 and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
Additionally, the Committee approved the form of directors stock option grant agreement filed herewith as Exhibit 10.5. This form of directors stock option grant agreement will be used by the Committee to grant options to acquire Company common stock to certain non-employee directors of the Company pursuant to the NEDSIP, and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
 
On April 24, 2006, the Board elected Vivian M. Stephenson, the Chief Operating Officer of Williams-Sonoma, Inc. (retiring from Williams-Sonoma effective June 30, 2006), to the Board.
The Board has determined that Ms. Stephenson is an independent director under the applicable New York Stock Exchange listing standards and the Companys Corporate Governance Guidelines.
On April 25, 2006, the Board appointed Ms. Stephenson to its Nominating and Governance Committee.
A copy of the Companys press release announcing the election of Ms. Stephenson is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
 
On April 24, 2006, the Board approved an amendment to Section 2.2 of the Companys Amended and Restated Bylaws (the Bylaws). The amendment increases the number of directors serving on the Board from eleven (11) to twelve (12). The full text of the Bylaws, as amended and restated April 24, 2006, is filed herewith as Exhibit 3.1 to this report and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 5.03.
(d)
 
Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 
 

 
1.1
  
Place and Time of Meetings
. Meetings of shareholders shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation or at such place, either within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia, and at such time as may be provided in the notice of the meeting and approved by the Board of Directors.
 
1.2
  
Organization and Order of Business
. The Chairman or, in the Chairman's absence, the President shall serve as chairman at all meetings of the shareholders. In the absence of both of the foregoing persons or if both of them decline to serve, a majority of the shares entitled to vote at a meeting may appoint any person entitled to vote at the meeting to act as chairman. The Secretary or, in the Secretary's absence, an Assistant Secretary shall act as secretary at all meetings of the shareholders. In the event that neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present, the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
 
The Chairman shall have the authority to make such rules and regulations, to establish such procedures and to take such steps as he or she may deem necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of each meeting of the shareholders, including, without limitation, the authority to make the agenda and to establish procedures for (i) dismissing of business not properly presented, (ii) maintaining of order and safety, (iii) placing limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, (iv) placing restrictions on attendance at a meeting by persons or classes of persons who are not shareholders or their proxies, (v) restricting entry to a meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and (vi) commencing, conducting and closing voting on any matter.
 
Any business which might properly have been conducted on an original meeting date may come before an adjourned meeting when reconvened.
 
1.3
  
Annual Meeting
. The annual meeting of shareholders shall be held in the month of June of each year on such day and convening at such time as shall be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. If such day is a legal holiday, then the annual meeting of shareholders shall be held on the next succeeding business day. Alternatively, the annual meeting may be held on such other day as may be provided in the notice of the meeting and approved by the Board of Directors.
 
At each annual meeting of shareholders, only such business shall be conducted as is proper to consider and has been brought before the meeting (i) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of the meeting, (ii) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) by a shareholder who is a shareholder of record of a class of shares entitled to vote on the business such shareholder is proposing and who is such a shareholder of record, both at the time of the giving of the shareholder's notice hereinafter described in this Section 1.3 and on the record date for such annual meeting, and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.3.
 
In order to bring before an annual meeting of shareholders any business which may properly be considered and which a shareholder has not sought to have included in the Corporation's proxy statement for the meeting, a shareholder who meets the requirements set forth in the preceding paragraph must give the Corporation timely written notice. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be given, either by personal delivery to the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary at the principal office of the Corporation or by first class United States mail, with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the Secretary at the principal office of the Corporation. Any such notice must be received (i) on or after February 1st and before March 1st of the year in which the meeting will be held, if clause (ii) is not applicable, or (ii) not less than 90 days before the date of the meeting if the date of such meeting, as prescribed in these bylaws, has been changed by more than 30 days.
 
Each such shareholder's notice shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (i) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's stock transfer books, of the shareholder proposing business, (ii) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by such shareholder, (iii) a representation that such shareholder is a shareholder of record at the time of the giving of the notice and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to present the business specified in the notice, (iv) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, including the complete text of any resolutions to be presented and the reasons for wanting to conduct such business and (v) any interest which the shareholder may have in such business.
 
The Secretary or Assistant Secretary shall deliver each shareholder's notice that has been timely received to the Chairman for review.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.3, a shareholder seeking to have a proposal included in the Corporation's proxy statement for an annual meeting of shareholders shall comply with the requirements of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or with any successor regulation.
 
1.4
  
Special Meetings
.
Special meetings of the shareholders may be called only by the Chairman, the President or the Board of Directors. Only business within the purpose or purposes described in the notice for a special meeting of shareholders may be conducted at the meeting.
 
1.5
  
Record Dates
. The Board of Directors shall fix, in advance, a record date to make a determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or to receive any dividend or for any purpose, such date to be not more than 70 days before the meeting or action requiring a determination of shareholders.
 
When a determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders has been made, such determination shall be effective for any adjournment of the meeting unless the Board of Directors fixes a new record date, which it shall do if the meeting is adjourned to a date more than 120 days after the date fixed for the original meeting.
 
1.6
  
Notice of Meetings
. Written notice stating the place, day and hour of each meeting of shareholders and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be given by mail not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date
 
of the meeting (except when a different time is required in these Bylaws or by law) to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. Such notice shall be deemed to be effective when deposited in first class United States mail with postage thereon prepaid and addressed to the shareholder at his or her address as it appears on the share transfer books of the Corporation.
 
Notice of a shareholder's meeting to act on (i) an amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, (ii) a plan of merger or share exchange, (iii) the sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially all the property of the Corporation otherwise than in the usual and regular course of business or (iv) the dissolution of the Corporation, shall be given, in the manner provided above, not less than 25 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting. Any notice given pursuant to this section shall state that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is to consider such action and shall be accompanied by (x) a copy of the proposed amendment, (y) a copy of the proposed plan of merger or share exchange or (z) a summary of the agreement pursuant to which the proposed transaction will be effected. If only a summary of the agreement is sent to the shareholders, the Corporation shall also send a copy of the agreement to any shareholder who requests it.
 
If a meeting is adjourned to a different date, time or place, notice need not be given if the new date, time or place is announced at the meeting before adjournment. However, if a new record date for an adjourned meeting is fixed, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to shareholders as of the new record date unless a court provides otherwise.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no notice of a meeting of shareholders need be given to a shareholder if (i) an annual report and proxy statements for two consecutive annual meetings of shareholders or (ii) all, and at least two, checks in payment of dividends or interest on securities during a 12-month period, have been sent by first-class United States mail, with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the shareholder at his or her address as it appears on the share transfer books of the Corporation, and returned undeliverable. The obligation of the Corporation to give notice of meetings of shareholders to any such shareholder shall be reinstated once the Corporation has received a new address for such shareholder for entry on its share transfer books.
 
1.7
  
Waiver of Notice; Attendance at Meeting
. A shareholder may waive any notice required by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws before or after the date and time of the meeting that is the subject of such notice. The waiver shall be in writing, be signed by the shareholder entitled to the notice and be delivered to the Secretary for inclusion in the minutes or filing with the corporate records.
 
A shareholder's attendance at a meeting (i) waives objection to lack of notice or defective notice of the meeting unless the shareholder, at the beginning of the meeting, objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and (ii) waives objection to consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose or purposes described in the meeting notice unless the shareholder objects to considering the matter when it is presented.
 
1.8
  
Quorum and Voting Requirements
. Unless otherwise required by law, a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on a matter constitutes a quorum for action on that matter. Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it is deemed present for quorum 
purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is or shall be set for that adjourned meeting. If a quorum exists, action on a matter, other than the election of directors, is approved if the votes cast favoring the action exceed the votes cast opposing the action unless a greater number of affirmative votes is required by law. Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the shares entitled to vote in the election at a meeting at which a quorum is present.
The Chairman of meeting or a majority of the shares represented at the meeting may adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is a quorum.
 
 
1.9
  
Proxies
. A shareholder may vote his or her shares in person or by proxy. A shareholder may appoint a proxy to vote or otherwise act for such shareholder by signing an appointment form, either personally or by his or her attorney-in-fact. An appointment of a proxy is effective when received by the Secretary or other officer or agent authorized to tabulate votes and is valid for eleven (11) months unless a longer period is expressly provided in the appointment form. An appointment of a proxy is revocable by the shareholder unless the appointment form conspicuously states that it is irrevocable and the appointment is coupled with an interest.
 
The death or incapacity of the shareholder appointing a proxy does not affect the right of the Corporation to accept the proxy's authority unless notice of the death or incapacity is received by the Secretary or other officer or agent authorized to tabulate votes before the proxy exercises his or her authority under the appointment. An irrevocable appointment is revoked when the interest with which it is coupled is extinguished. A transferee for value of shares subject to an irrevocable appointment may revoke the appointment if the transferee did not know of its existence when the shares were acquired and the existence of the irrevocable appointment was not noted conspicuously on the certificate representing the shares or on the information statement for shares without certificates. Subject to any legal limitations on the right of the Corporation to accept the vote or other action of a proxy and to any express limitation on the proxy's authority appearing on the face of the appointment form, the Corporation is entitled to accept the proxy's vote or other action as that of the shareholder making the appointment. Any fiduciary who is entitled to vote any shares may vote such shares by proxy.
 
1.10
  
Voting List
. The officer or agent having charge of the share transfer books of the Corporation shall make, at least ten days before each meeting of shareholders, a complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting or any adjournment thereof, with the address of and the number of shares held by each. For a period of ten days prior to the meeting, such list shall be kept on file at the registered office of the Corporation or at its principal office or at the office of its transfer agent or registrar and shall be subject to inspection by any shareholder at any time during usual business hours. Such list shall also be produced and kept open at the time and place of the meeting and shall be subject to the inspection of any shareholder during the whole time of the meeting for the purpose thereof. The original share transfer books shall be prima facie evidence as to which shareholders are entitled to examine such list or transfer books or to vote at any meeting of the shareholders. The right of a shareholder to inspect such list prior to the meeting shall be subject to the conditions and limitations set forth by law. If the requirements of this section have not been substantially complied with, the meeting shall, on the demand of any shareholder in person or by proxy, be adjourned until such requirements are met. Refusal or failure to prepare or make available the shareholders' list does       not affect the validity of action taken at the meeting prior to the making of any such demand, but any action taken by the shareholders after the making of any such demand shall be invalid and of no effect.
 
 
2.1
  
General Powers
.
The Corporation shall have a Board of Directors. All corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the authority of, and the business and affairs of the Corporation managed under the direction of, its Board of Directors, and such officers and agents as the Board of Directors may elect to employ, subject to any limitation set forth in the Articles of Incorporation.
 
2.2
  
Number and Term
.
The number of directors shall be twelve (12). This number may be increased or decreased from time to time by amendment to these Bylaws to the extent permitted by law and by the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation. Except as provided in Section 2.5, directors shall be elected for terms of up to three (3) years in the manner set forth in the Articles of Incorporation and shall serve until the election of their successors. No decrease in the number of directors shall have the effect of changing the term of any incumbent director. Unless a director resigns or is removed by the majority vote of the shareholders, every director shall hold office for the term elected or until a successor to such director shall have been elected.
 
2.3
  
Nomination of Directors
.
Nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board of Directors or by any shareholder entitled to vote in the election of directors generally. However, any such shareholder may nominate one or more persons for election as directors at a meeting only if written notice of such shareholder's intent to make such nomination or nominations has been given, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Corporation not later than (i) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of shareholders 120 days in advance of such meeting or (ii) with respect to a special meeting of shareholders for the election of directors, the close of business on the seventh day following the date on which notice of such meeting is first given to shareholders.
 
Each such notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address of the shareholder who intends to make the nomination and of the person or persons to be nominated; (b) a representation that the shareholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the shareholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the shareholder; (d) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such shareholder as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, had the nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the Board of Directors; and (e) the consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation if so elected. The Chairman may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure.
 
2.4
  
Election
.
Except as provided in Section 2.5, the directors shall be elected by the holders of the common shares at each annual meeting of shareholders or at a special meeting called for such purpose. Those persons who receive the greatest number of votes shall be deemed elected even though they do not receive a majority of the votes cast. No individual shall be named or elected as a director without such individual's prior consent.
 
2.5
  
Removal; Vacancies
.
The shareholders may remove one or more directors with or without cause. If a director is elected by a voting group, only the shareholders of that voting group may elect to remove the director. Unless the Articles of Incorporation require a greater vote, a director may be removed if the number of votes cast to remove the director constitutes a majority of the votes entitled to be cast at an election of directors of the voting group or voting groups by which such director was elected. A director may be removed by the shareholders only at a meeting called for the purpose of removing such director and the meeting notice must state that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is removal of the director.
 
A vacancy on the Board of Directors, including a vacancy resulting from the removal of a director or an increase in the number of directors, may be filled by (i) the shareholders, (ii) the Board of Directors or (iii) the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors and may, in the case of a resignation that will become effective at a specified later date, be filled before the vacancy occurs but the new director may not take office until the vacancy occurs. Any director elected by the Board of Directors shall serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders or until the election of a successor to such director.
 
2.6
  
Annual and Regular Meetings
. An annual meeting of the Board of Directors, which shall be considered a regular meeting, shall be held immediately following each annual meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing officers and carrying on such other business as may properly come before the meeting. The Board of Directors may also adopt a schedule of additional meetings which shall be considered regular meetings. Regular meetings shall be held at such times and at such places, within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia, as the Chairman, the President or the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time. If no place is designated, regular meetings shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation.
 
2.7
  
Special Meetings
.
Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the President, the Board of Directors or any two Directors of the Corporation and shall be held at such times and at such places, within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia, as the person or persons calling the meetings shall designate. If no such place is designated in the notice of a meeting, it shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation.
 
2.8
  
Notice of Meetings
.
No notice need be given of regular meetings of the Board of Directors.
 
Notices of special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be given to each director in person or delivered to his or her residence or business address (or such other place as the director may have directed in writing) not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the meeting by mail, email, messenger, telecopy, telegraph or other means of written communication or by telephoning such notice to the director. Any such notice shall set forth the time and place of the meeting.
 
2.9
  
Waiver of Notice; Attendance at Meeting
.
A director may waive any notice required by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws before or after the date and time stated in the notice and such waiver shall be equivalent to the giving of such notice. Except as provided in the next paragraph of this section, the waiver shall be in writing, signed by the director entitled to the notice and filed with the minutes or corporate records.
 
A director's attendance at or participation in a meeting waives any required notice to such director of the meeting unless the director, at the beginning of the meeting or promptly upon arrival, objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and does not thereafter vote for or assent to action taken at the meeting.
 
2.10
  
Quorum; Voting
.
A majority of the number of directors fixed in these Bylaws shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at a meeting of the Board of Directors. If a quorum is present when a vote is taken, the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present is the act of the Board of Directors. A director who is present at a meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board of Directors when corporate action is taken is deemed to have assented to the action taken unless (i) the director objects, at the beginning of the meeting or promptly upon arrival, to holding it or transacting specified business at the meeting or (ii) the director votes against or abstains from the action taken.
 
2.11
  
Telephonic Meetings
.
The Board of Directors may permit any or all directors to participate in a regular or special meeting by, or conduct the meeting through the use of, any means of communication by which all directors participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. A director participating in a meeting by this means is deemed to be present in person at the meeting.
 
2.12
  
Action Without Meeting
.
Action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if the action is taken by all members of the Board. The action shall be evidenced by one or more written consents stating the action taken, signed by each director either before or after the action is taken and included in the minutes or filed with the corporate records. Action taken under this section shall be effective when the last director signs the consent unless the consent specifies a different effective date in which event the action taken is effective as of the date specified therein provided the consent states the date of execution by each director.
 
2.13
  
Compensation
.
Directors shall not receive a stated salary for their services, but directors may be paid a fixed sum and expenses for attendance at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or any meeting of any Committee and such other compensation as the Board of Directors shall determine. A director may serve or be employed by the Corporation in any other capacity and receive compensation thereafter.
 
2.14
  
Chairman and Vice Chairman
.
The Chairman of the Board, if one is designated by the Board of Directors, shall preside at all meetings of the Board and of shareholders and perform such other duties as the Board shall assign from time to time. The Vice Chairman of the Board, if one is designated by the Board of Directors, shall, at the request of or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, preside at meetings of the Board and of shareholders and, when requested to do so by the Board, shall perform all of the functions of the Chairman of the Board during the absence or incapacity of the latter.
 
 
 
3.1
  
Committees
.
The Board of Directors may create one or more committees and appoint members of the Board of Directors to serve on them. Unless otherwise provided in these Bylaws, each committee shall have two or more members who serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The creation of a committee and appointment of members to it shall be approved by a majority of all of the directors in office when the action is taken.
 
3.2
  
Authority of Committees
.
To the extent specified by the Board of Directors, each committee may exercise the authority of the Board of Directors, except that a committee may not (i) approve or recommend to shareholders action that is required by law to be approved by shareholders, (ii) fill vacancies on the Board of Directors or on any of its committees, (iii) amend the Articles of Incorporation, (iv) adopt, amend, or repeal these Bylaws, (v) approve a plan of merger not requiring shareholder approval, (vi) authorize or approve a distribution, except according to a general formula or method prescribed by the Board of Directors or (vii) authorize or approve the issuance or sale or contract for sale of shares, or determine the designation and relative rights, preferences, and limitations of a class or series of shares, except that the Board of Directors may authorize a committee, or a senior executive officer of the Corporation, to do so within limits specifically prescribed by the Board of Directors.
 
3.3
  
Executive Committee
.
The Board of Directors may appoint an Executive Committee consisting of the management members of the Board. Subject to any limitation provided by law, in the Companys Bylaws, or in any resolution of the Board of Directors, and with respect to subparts (i) through (vii) herein, further subject to the limits of the Companys current capital expenditure budget and/or strategic plan, as applicable, the Committee shall have the authority of the Board of Directors to approve the following matters: (i) the purchase, development and sale of real estate, (ii) the formation and incorporation of domestic operating subsidiaries of the Company having initial capitalizations not to exceed US$10,000,000 per subsidiary, (iii) the dissolution, merger, liquidation or unwinding of any domestic operating subsidiary of the Company, (iv) the acquisition and sale of car dealer franchises, (v) loan agreements, securitizations and other financing activities, (vi) the administration, modification and amendment of
the Companys
employee benefit plans
that are subject to the fiduciary provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), but only
to the extent such administration, modification or amendment does not require shareholder approval or materially impact the Companys financial results, (vii)
the investment policy for the Companys retirement plans subject to ERISA, (viii) the appointment and removal of the trustees for the Companys retirement plans subject to ERISA; (ix)
other matters occurring in the ordinary course of the Companys business, and (
x) matters occurring other than in the ordinary course of
business, if, in the judgment of the Chair of the Committee with the concurrence of either the Chairman of the Board or the chair of any other standing committee of the Board, exigent circumstances exist which make it impracticable of impossible to convene a meeting of the Board of Directors. The Committee may form and delegate authority to a subcommittee consisting of two or more members. A subcommittee shall report any action to the full Committee at its next meeting. Subject to the approval of the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee shall adopt and
 
from time to time assess and revise a written charter which will specify how the Committee will carry out its responsibilities and such other matters as the Board determines are necessary and desirable.
 
3.4
  
Audit Committee
.
The Board of Directors shall appoint each year an Audit Committee, which shall be composed of at least three members of the Board, all of whom shall be independent directors (as defined in Section 6.1). In addition, the members of the Committee shall satisfy the requirements for audit committee membership imposed by the New York Stock Exchange on audit committees of listed public companies and any eligibility requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission with regard to companies whose securities are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Audit Committee shall assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its responsibility relating to the corporate accounting and reporting practices of the Corporation. Subject to the approval of the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee shall adopt and from time to time assess and revise a written charter which will specify how the Committee will carry out its responsibilities and such other matters as the Board and the Audit Committee determine are necessary or desirable.
 
3.5
  
Nominating and Governance Committee
.
The Board of Directors shall appoint each year a Nominating and Governance Committee, which shall be composed of at least two members of the Board, all of whom shall be independent directors (as defined in Section 6.1). The functions of this Committee shall include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the approval of the Board of Directors, the Nominating and Governance Committee shall adopt and from time to time assess and revise a written charter which will specify how the Committee will carry out its responsibilities and such other matters as the Board and the Nominating and Governance Committee determine are necessary or desirable.
 
3.6
  
Compensation and Personnel Committee
.
The Board of Directors shall appoint each year a Compensation and Personnel Committee, which shall be composed of at least three members of the Board, all of whom shall be independent directors (as defined in Section 6.1), and which shall have the following duties:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the approval of the Board of Directors, the Compensation and Personnel Committee shall adopt and from time to time assess and revise a written charter which will specify how the Committee will carry out its responsibilities and such other matters as the Board and the Compensation and Personnel Committee determine are necessary or desirable.
 
3.7
  
Committee Meetings; Miscellaneous
.
The provisions of these Bylaws which govern meetings, action without meetings, notice and waiver of notice, and quorum and voting requirements of the Board of Directors shall apply to committees of directors and their members as well.
 
 
 
4.1
  
Officers
.
The officers of the Corporation shall be a President, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer, and, in the discretion of the Board of Directors or the President, one or more Vice-Presidents and such other officers as may be deemed necessary or advisable to carry on the business of the Corporation. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
 
4.2
  
Election; Term
.
Officers shall be elected by the Board of Directors. The President may, from time to time, appoint other officers. Officers elected by the Board of Directors shall hold office, unless sooner removed, until the next annual meeting of the Board of Directors or until their successors are elected. Officers appointed by the President shall hold office, unless sooner removed, until their successors are appointed. The action of the President in appointing officers shall be reported to the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors after it is taken. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board of Directors or the President and such resignation shall be effective when notice is delivered unless the notice specifies a later effective date.
 
4.3
  
Removal of Officers
.
The Board of Directors may remove any officer at any time, with or without cause. The President may remove any officer appointed by the President at any time, with or without cause. Such action shall be reported to the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors after it is taken.
 
4.4
  
Duties of the President
.
The President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and a member of the Board of Directors. The President, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Vice Chairman of the Board, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and shareholders, shall have power to call special meetings of the shareholders and directors for any purpose; may hire, appoint and discharge employees and agents of the Corporation and fix their compensation; may make and sign deeds, mortgages, deeds of trust, notes, leases, powers of attorney, contracts and agreements in the name and on behalf of the Corporation; shall have power to carry into effect all directions of the Board of Directors; and shall have general supervision of the business of the Corporation, except as may be limited by the Board of Directors, the Articles of Incorporation, or these bylaws.
 
4.5
  
Duties of the Vice President
.
Such Vice Presidents, in the order designated by the Board of Directors from time to time, shall exercise all of the functions of the President during the absence or incapacity of the latter and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors or the President.
 
4.6
  
Duties of the Secretary
.
The Secretary shall be the ex-officio clerk of the Board of Directors and shall give, or cause to be given, notices of all meetings of shareholders and directors, and all other notices required by law or by these Bylaws.
 
The Secretary shall record the proceedings of the meetings of the shareholders, Board of Directors and committees of the Board of Directors in books kept for that purpose and shall keep the seal of the Corporation and attach it to all documents requiring such impression unless some other officer is designated to do so by the Board of Directors. The Secretary shall also perform such other duties as may be assigned by the Board of Directors or the President.
 
4.7
  
Duties of the Chief Financial Officer
.
The Chief Financial Officer shall keep or cause to be kept full and accurate books of account, and may make and sign deeds, mortgages, deeds of trust, notes, leases, contracts and agreements in the name and on behalf of the Corporation. Whenever required by the Board of Directors or the President, the Chief Financial Officer shall render a financial statement showing all transactions of the Corporation and the financial condition of the Corporation.
 
4.8
  
Duties of the Assistant Secretary
.
There may be one or more Assistant Secretaries who shall exercise all of the functions of the Secretary during the absence or incapacity of the latter and such other duties as may be assigned from time to time by the Board of Directors or the President.
 
4.9
  
Duties of Other Officers
.
The other officers of the Corporation, which may include Assistant Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, Assistant Treasurers, a Controller or Assistant Controllers, shall have such authority and perform such duties as shall be prescribed by the Board of Directors or by officers authorized by the Board of Directors to appoint them to their respective offices. To the extent that such duties are not so stated, such officers shall have such authority and perform the duties which generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the control of the President or the Board of Directors.
 
4.10
  
Voting Securities of Other Corporations
.
Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, each of the President and the Chief Financial Officer, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, may appoint from time to time himself or herself or any other person (or persons) proxy, attorney or agent for the Corporation to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as a shareholder, member or otherwise in any other corporation, partnership or other legal entity, domestic or foreign, whose stock, interests or other securities are held by the Corporation, or to consent in writing to any action by such other entity, or to exercise any or all other powers of this Corporation as the holder of the stock, interests or other securities of such other entity. Each of the President and the Chief Financial Officer may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent and may execute or cause to be executed on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal such written proxies, consents, waivers, or other instruments as may be deemed necessary or proper. Each of the President and the Chief Financial Officer may attend any meeting of the holders of stock, interests or other securities of any such other entity and vote or exercise any or all other powers of this Corporation as the holder of the stock, interest or other securities of such other entity.
 
4.11
  
Compensation
.
The compensation of all officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors or the Compensation and Personnel Committee.
 
4.12
  
Bonds
.
The Board of Directors may require that any or all officers, employees and agents of the Corporation give bond to the Corporation, with sufficient sureties, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of their respective offices or positions.
 
 
 
5.1
  
Form
.
Shares of the Corporation shall, when fully paid, be evidenced by certificates containing such information as is required by law and approved by the Board of Directors. Alternatively, the Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of some or all shares without certificates. In such event, within a reasonable time after issuance, the Corporation shall mail to the shareholder a written confirmation of its records with respect to such shares containing the information required by law. When issued, certificates shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President or a Vice President designated by the Board and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and may (but need not) be sealed with the seal of the Corporation. The seal of the Corporation and any or all of the signatures on a share certificate may be facsimile. If any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such individual were such officer, transfer agent or registrar on the date of issue.
 
5.2
  
Transfer
.
The Board of Directors may make rules and regulations concerning the issue, registration and transfer of shares and/or certificates representing the shares of the Corporation. Transfers of shares and/or of the certificates representing such shares shall be made upon the books of the Corporation by surrender of the certificates representing such shares, if any, accompanied by written assignments given by the record owners thereof or their attorneys-in-fact.
 
5.3
  
Restrictions on Transfer
.
A lawful restriction on the transfer or registration of transfer of shares is valid and enforceable against the holder or a transferee of the holder if the restriction complies with the requirements of law and its existence is noted conspicuously on the front or back of any certificate representing the shares or has been otherwise communicated in accordance with the requirements of law. Unless so noted or communicated, a restriction is not enforceable against a person without knowledge of the restriction.
 
5.4
  
Lost or Destroyed Share Certificates
.
The Corporation may issue a new share certificate or a written confirmation of its records with respect to shares in the place of any certificate theretofore issued which is alleged to have been lost or destroyed and may require the owner of such certificate, or such owner's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond, with or without surety, or such other agreement, undertaking or security as the Board of Directors shall determine is appropriate, to indemnify the Corporation against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss or destruction or the issuance of any such new certificate.
 
5.5
  
Registered Shareholders
.
The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the owner thereof and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any
 
other person. The Corporation shall not be liable for registering any transfer of shares which are registered in the name of a fiduciary unless done with actual knowledge of facts which would cause the Corporation's action in registering the transfer to amount to bad faith.
 
 
6.1
  
Certain Definitions
.
As used in these Bylaws, the term "independent" has the following meaning: A director is considered to be independent if the individual meets all independence criteria set forth in Section 303A.02 of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual, as amended from time to time, and the Board of Directors has affirmatively determined that such individual has no material relationship with the Company (either directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship with the Company).
 
6.2
  
Corporate Seal
.
The corporate seal of the Corporation shall be circular and shall have inscribed thereon, within and around the circumference, the name of the Corporation. In the center shall be the word "SEAL".
 
6.3
  
Fiscal Year
.
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of March of each year and end on the last day of February in the next succeeding year.
 
6.4
  
Amendments
.
The power to alter, amend or repeal the Bylaws or adopt new bylaws shall be vested in the Board of Directors unless otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation. Bylaws adopted by the Board of Directors may be repealed or changed or new bylaws adopted by the shareholders, and the shareholders may prescribe that any bylaw adopted by them may not be altered, amended or repealed by the Board of Directors.
 
6.5
  
General
.
Any matters not specifically covered by these Bylaws shall be governed by the applicable provisions of the Code of Virginia in force at the time.
 

1.
 
Purpose
. The purpose of the CarMax, Inc. Annual Performance-Based Bonus Plan (the Plan) is to provide an annual performance based incentive for executive officers who are in a position to contribute materially to the success of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
2.
 
Definitions.
3.
  
Eligibility.
All present and future Executive Employees shall be eligible to receive Awards under the Plan. The Committee shall have the
power and complete discretion to select eligible Executive Employees to receive Awards and to determine for each Participant the terms and conditions and the amount of each Award.
2
4.
 
 
Awards.
3
5.
 
Administration
. The Plan shall be administered by a Committee, which shall be appointed by the Board, consisting of not less than two members of the Board. Subject to paragraph (d) below, the Committee shall be the Compensation and Personnel Committee unless the Board shall appoint another Committee to administer the Plan. The Committee shall have general authority to impose any limitation or condition upon an Award the Committee deems appropriate to achieve the objectives of the Award and the Plan and, in addition, and without limitation and in addition to powers set forth elsewhere in the Plan, shall have the following specific authority:
 
4
6.
 
Change of Control
. In the event of a Change of Control of the Company, in addition to any action required or authorized by the terms of an Award Agreement, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, take any of the following actions as a result, or in anticipation, of any such event to assure fair and equitable treatment of Participants: (a) accelerate time periods for purposes of vesting in, or receiving any payment with regard to, any outstanding Award, or (b) make adjustments or modifications to outstanding Awards as the Committee deems appropriate to maintain and protect the rights and interests of Participants following such Change of Control. Any such action approved by the Committee shall be conclusive and binding on the Company and all Participants.
7.
 
Nontransferability of Awards
. An Award shall not be assignable or transferable by the Participant except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
8.
 
Termination, Modification, Change
. If not sooner terminated by the Board, this Plan shall terminate at the close of business on February 29, 2012. No Awards shall be granted under the Plan after its termination. The Board may terminate the Plan or may amend the Plan in such respects as it shall deem advisable; provided that, if and to the extent required by the Code, no change shall be made that changes the Performance Criteria, or materially increases the maximum potential benefits for Participants under the Plan, unless such change is authorized by the shareholders of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may unilaterally amend the Plan and Awards as it deems appropriate to cause Awards to meet the requirements of Code Section 162(m), and regulations thereunder. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, a termination or amendment of the Plan shall not, without the consent of the Participant, adversely affect a Participants rights under an Award previously granted to him.
9.
 
Unfunded Plan
.
The Plan shall be unfunded. No provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement will require the Company or its Subsidiaries, for the purpose of satisfying any obligations under the Plan, to purchase assets or place any assets in a trust or other entity to which contributions are made or otherwise to segregate any assets, nor will the Company or its Subsidiaries maintain separate bank accounts, books, records or other evidence of the existence of a segregated or separately maintained or administered fund for such purposes. Participants will have no rights under the Plan other than as unsecured general creditors of the Company and its Subsidiaries, except that insofar as they may have become entitled to payment of additional compensation by performance of services, they will have the same rights as other employees under generally applicable law.
5
10.
 
Liability of Company
.
Any liability of the Company or a Subsidiary to any Participant with respect to an Award shall be based solely upon contractual obligations created by the Plan and the Award Agreement. Neither the Company nor a Subsidiary, nor any member of the Board or of the Committee, nor any other person participating in any determination of any question under the Plan, or in the interpretation, administration or application of the Plan, shall have any liability to any party for any action taken or not taken in good faith under the Plan. Status as an eligible Executive Employee shall not be construed as a commitment that any Award will be made under this Plan to such eligible Executive Employee or to eligible Executive Employees generally. Nothing contained in this Plan or in any Award Agreement (or in any other documents related to this Plan or to any Award or Award Agreement) shall confer upon any Executive Employee or Participant any right to continue in the employ or other service of the Company or a Subsidiary or constitute any contract or limit in any way the right of the Company or a Subsidiary to change such persons compensation or other benefits.
11.
 
Interpretation
.
If any term or provision contained herein will to any extent be invalid or unenforceable, such term or provision will be reformed so that it is valid, and such invalidity or unenforceability will not affect any other provision or part hereof. The Plan, the Award Agreements and all actions taken hereunder or thereunder shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia without regard to the conflict of law principles thereof.
12.
 
Effective Date of the Plan
.

 
1.
 
Purpose.
The purpose of this CarMax, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan) is to further the long term stability and financial success of CarMax, Inc. (the Company) by attracting and retaining key employees of the Company through the use of stock incentives. It is believed that ownership of Company Stock will stimulate the efforts of those employees upon whose judgment and interest the Company is and will be largely dependent for the successful conduct of its business. It is also believed that Incentive Awards granted to employees under this Plan will strengthen their desire to remain with the Company and will further the identification of those employees interests with those of the Companys shareholders.
 
2.
 
Definitions.
As used in the Plan, the following terms have the meanings indicated:
 
(a)
 
Act means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(b)
 
Applicable Withholding Taxes means the minimum aggregate amount of federal, state and local income and payroll taxes that the Company is required by applicable law to withhold in connection with any Incentive Award.
(c)
 
Board means the Board of Directors of the Company.
(d)
 
Change of Control means the occurrence of either of the following events: (i) any individual, entity or group (as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Act) becomes, or obtains the right to become, the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13(d)(3) under the Act) of Company securities having 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of the Company that may be cast for the election of directors to the Board of the Company (other than as a result of an issuance of securities initiated by the Company in the ordinary course of business); or (ii) as the result of, or in connection with, any cash tender or exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or any combination of the foregoing transactions, the persons who were directors of the Company before such transactions shall cease to constitute a majority of the Board or of the board of directors of any successor to the Company.
(e)
 
Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. A reference to any provision of the Code shall include reference to any successor or replacement provision of the Code.
(f)
 
Committee means the committee appointed by the Board as described under Section 14.
(g)
 
Company means CarMax, Inc., a Virginia corporation.
(h)
 
Company Stock means the common stock of the Company. In the event of a change in the capital structure of the Company, the shares resulting from such a change shall be deemed to be Company Stock within the meaning of the Plan.
(i)
 
Date of Grant means the date on which an Incentive Award is granted by the Committee.
(j)
 
Disability or Disabled means, as to an Incentive Stock Option, a Disability within the meaning of Code section 22(e)(3). As to all other forms of Incentive Awards, the Committee shall determine whether a Disability exists and such determination shall be conclusive.
(k)
 
Fair Market Value means, for any given date, the fair market value of the Company Stock as of such date, as determined by the Committee on a basis consistently applied based on actual transactions in Company Stock on the exchange on which it generally has the greatest trading volume.
(l)
 
Incentive Award means, collectively, the award of an Option, Stock Appreciation Right or Restricted Stock under the Plan.
(m)
 
Incentive Stock Option means an Option intended to meet the requirements of, and qualify for favorable federal income tax treatment under, Code section 422.
(n)
 
Mature Shares means shares of Company Stock for which the holder thereof has good title, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances and which such holder either (i) has held for at least six (6) months or (ii) has purchased on the open market.
(o)
 
Nonstatutory Stock Option means an Option that does not meet the requirements of Code section 422 or, even if meeting the requirements of Code section 422, is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option and is so designated.
(p)
 
Option means a right to purchase Company Stock granted under Section 7 of the Plan, at a price determined in accordance with the Plan.
(q)
 
Parent means, with respect to any corporation, a parent of that corporation within the meaning of Code section 424(e).
(r)
 
Participant means any employee who receives an Incentive Award under the Plan.
(s)
 
Reload Feature means a feature of an Option described in a Participants stock option agreement that authorizes the automatic grant of a Reload Option in accordance with the provisions of Section 9(e).
(t)
 
Reload Option means an Option automatically granted to a Participant equal to the number of shares of Mature Shares delivered by the Participant in payment of the exercise price of an Option having a Reload Feature.
2
(u)
 
Restricted Stock means Company Stock awarded upon the terms and subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 6.
(v)
 
Restricted Stock Award means an award of Restricted Stock granted under the Plan.
(w)
 
Rule 16b-3 means Rule 16b-3 adopted pursuant to section 16(b) of the Act. A reference in the Plan to Rule 16b-3 shall include a reference to any corresponding rule (or number redesignation) of any amendments to Rule 16b-3 adopted after the effective date of the Plans adoption.
(x)
 
Stock Appreciation Right means a right to receive amounts from the Company awarded upon the terms and subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 8.
(y)
 
Subsidiary means any business entity (including, but not limited to, a corporation, partnership or limited liability company) of which a company directly or indirectly owns one hundred percent (100%) of the voting interests of the entity unless the Committee determines that the entity should not be considered a Subsidiary for purposes of the Plan. If a company owns less than one hundred percent (100%) of the voting interests of the entity, the entity will be considered a Subsidiary for purposes of the Plan only if the Committee determines that the entity should be so considered. For purposes of Incentive Stock Options, Subsidiary shall be limited to a subsidiary within the meaning of Code section 424(f).
(z)
 
10% Shareholder means a person who owns, directly or indirectly, stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. Indirect ownership of stock shall be determined in accordance with Code section 424(d).
3.
 
General.
Incentive Awards may be granted under the Plan in the form of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and Restricted Stock. Options granted under the Plan may be Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Stock Options. The provisions of the Plan referring to Rule 16b-3 shall apply only to Participants who are subject to section 16 of the Act.
 
4.
 
Stock.
Subject to Section 13 of the Plan, there shall be reserved for issuance under the Plan an aggregate of 16,750,000 shares of Company Stock, which shall be authorized, but unissued shares. Subject to Section 13 of the Plan, no more than 1,500,000 shares of Company Stock may be allocated to the Incentive Awards that are granted to any one Participant during any single calendar year. Shares of Company Stock that have not been issued under the Plan and that are allocable to Incentive Awards or portions thereof that expire or otherwise terminate unexercised may again be subjected to an Incentive Award under the Plan. Similarly, if any shares of Restricted Stock issued pursuant to the Plan are reacquired by the Company as a result of a forfeiture of such shares pursuant to the Plan, such shares may again be subjected to an Incentive Award under the Plan. For purposes of determining the number of shares of Company Stock that are available for Incentive Awards under the Plan, such number shall include the number of shares of Company Stock under an Incentive Award surrendered by a Participant or retained by the Company in payment of Applicable Withholding Taxes.
3
5.
 
Eligibility.
 
(a)
 
All present and future employees of the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company, whether now existing or hereafter created or acquired) shall be eligible to receive Incentive Awards under the Plan. The Committee shall have the power and complete discretion, as provided in Section 14, to select which employees shall receive Incentive Awards and to determine for each such Participant the terms and conditions, the nature of the award and the number of shares to be allocated to each Participant as part of each Incentive Award.
(b)
 
The grant of an Incentive Award shall not obligate the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company to pay a Participant any particular amount of remuneration, to continue the employment of the Participant after the grant or to make further grants to the Participant at any time thereafter.
6.
 
Restricted Stock Awards.
 
(a)
 
Whenever the Committee deems it appropriate to grant a Restricted Stock Award, notice shall be given to the Participant stating the number of shares of Restricted Stock for which the Restricted Stock Award is granted and the terms and conditions to which the Restricted Stock Award is subject. This notice may be given in writing or in electronic form and shall be the award agreement between the Company and the Participant. A Restricted Stock Award may be made by the Committee in its discretion without cash consideration.
(b)
 
Restricted Stock issued pursuant to the Plan shall be subject to the following restrictions:
(i)
 
None of such shares may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated, or otherwise encumbered or disposed of until the restrictions on such shares shall have lapsed or shall have been removed pursuant to paragraph (d) or (e) below.
(ii)
 
The restrictions on such shares must remain in effect and may not lapse for a period of three years beginning on the Date of Grant, except as provided under paragraph (d) or (e) in the case of Disability, retirement, death or a Change in Control.
(iii)
 
If a Participant ceases to be employed by the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary of the Company, the Participant shall forfeit to the Company any shares of Restricted Stock, the restrictions on which shall not have lapsed or shall not have been removed pursuant to paragraph (d) or (e) below, on the date such Participant shall cease to be so employed.
(iv)
 
The Committee may establish such other restrictions on such shares that the Committee deems appropriate, including, without limitation, events of forfeiture.
(c)
 
Upon the acceptance by a Participant of a Restricted Stock Award, such Participant shall, subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraph (b) above, have all the rights of a shareholder with respect to the shares of Restricted Stock subject to such Restricted Stock Award, including, but not limited to, the right to vote such shares of Restricted Stock and the right to receive all dividends and other distributions paid thereon. Certificates representing Restricted Stock shall bear a legend referring to the restrictions set forth in the Plan and the
 
4
Participants award agreement. If shares of Restricted Stock are issued without certificates, notice of the restrictions set forth in the Plan and the Participants Award Agreement must be given to the shareholder in the manner required by law.
(d)
 
The Committee shall establish as to each Restricted Stock Award the terms and conditions upon which the restrictions set forth in paragraph (b) above shall lapse. Such terms and conditions may include, without limitation, the lapsing of such restrictions as a result of the Disability, death or retirement of the Participant or the occurrence of a Change of Control.
(e)
 
Notwithstanding the forfeiture provisions of paragraph (b)(iii) above, the Committee may at any time, in its sole discretion, accelerate the time at which any or all restrictions will lapse or remove any and all such restrictions.
(f)
 
Each Participant shall agree at the time his Restricted Stock Award is granted, and as a condition thereof, to pay to the Company or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding the payment to the Company of, Applicable Withholding Taxes. Until such amount has been paid or arrangements satisfactory to the Company have been made, no stock certificates free of a legend reflecting the restrictions set forth in paragraph (b) above shall be issued to such Participant. If Restricted Stock is being issued to a Participant without the use of a stock certificate, the restrictions set forth in paragraph (b) shall be communicated to the shareholder in the manner required by law. As an alternative to making a cash payment to the Company to satisfy Applicable Withholding Taxes, if the grant so provides, or the Committee by separate action so permits, the Participant may elect to (i) deliver Mature Shares or (ii) have the Company retain that number of shares of Company Stock that would satisfy all or a specified portion of the Applicable Withholding Taxes. Any such election shall be made only in accordance with procedures established by the Committee. The Committee has the express authority to change any election procedure it establishes at any time.
7.
 
Stock Options.
 
(a)
 
Whenever the Committee deems it appropriate to grant Options, notice shall be given to the Participant stating the number of shares for which Options are granted, the Option price per share, whether the Options are Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Stock Options, the extent, if any, to which Stock Appreciation Rights are granted, and the conditions to which the grant and exercise of the Options are subject. This notice may be given in writing or in electronic form and shall be the stock option agreement between the Company and the Participant.
(b)
 
The exercise price of shares of Company Stock covered by an Incentive Stock Option shall be not less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of such shares on the Date of Grant; provided that if an Incentive Stock Option is granted to an employee who, at the time of the grant, is a 10% Shareholder, then the exercise price of the shares covered by the Incentive Stock Option shall be not less than 110% of the Fair Market Value of such shares on the Date of Grant.
(c)
 
The exercise price of shares of Company Stock covered by a Nonstatutory Stock Option shall be not less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of such shares on the Date of Grant.
5
(d)
 
Options may be exercised in whole or in part at such times as may be specified by the Committee in the Participants stock option agreement; provided that the exercise provisions for Incentive Stock Options shall in all events not be more liberal than the following provisions:
(i)
 
No Incentive Stock Option may be exercised after the first to occur of:
(x)
 
Ten years (or, in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a 10% Shareholder, five years) from the Date of Grant,
(y)
 
Three months following the date of the Participants termination of employment with the Company and any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company for reasons other than death or Disability; or
(z)
 
One year following the date of the Participants termination of employment by reason of death or Disability.
(ii)
 
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no Incentive Stock Option may be exercised unless the Participant is employed by the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary of the Company at the time of the exercise and has been so employed at all times since the Date of Grant. If a Participants employment is terminated other than by reason of death or Disability at a time when the Participant holds an Incentive Stock Option that is exercisable (in whole or in part), the Participant may exercise any or all of the then exercisable portion of the Incentive Stock Option (to the extent exercisable on the date of termination) within three months after the Participants termination of employment. If a Participants employment is terminated by reason of his Disability at a time when the Participant holds an Incentive Stock Option that is exercisable (in whole or in part), the Participant may exercise any or all of the then exercisable portion of the Incentive Stock Option (to the extent exercisable on the date of Disability) within one year after the Participants termination of employment. If a Participants employment is terminated by reason of his death at a time when the Participant holds an Incentive Stock Option that is exercisable (in whole or in part), the then exercisable portion of the Incentive Stock Option may be exercised (to the extent exercisable on the date of death) within one year after the Participants death by the person to whom the Participants rights under the Incentive Stock Option shall have passed by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
(iii)
 
An Incentive Stock Option, by its terms, shall be exercisable in any calendar year only to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined at the Date of Grant) of the Company Stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time during the calendar year does not exceed $100,000 (the Limitation Amount). Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan and all other plans of the Company and any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company shall be aggregated for purposes of determining whether the Limitation Amount has been exceeded. The Committee may impose such conditions as it deems appropriate on an Incentive Stock Option to ensure that the foregoing requirement is met. If Incentive Stock Options that first become exercisable in a calendar year exceed the Limitation Amount, the excess Options will be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options to the extent permitted by law.
6
(e)
 
The Committee may, in its discretion, grant Options that by their terms become fully exercisable upon a Change of Control notwithstanding other conditions on exercisability in the stock option agreement.
8.
 
Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
(a)
 
Whenever the Committee deems it appropriate, Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted in connection with all or any part of an Option, either concurrently with the grant of the Option or, if the Option is a Nonstatutory Stock Option, by an amendment to the Option at any time thereafter during the term of the Option. Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised in whole or in part at such times and under such conditions as may be specified by the Committee in the Participants stock option agreement. The following provisions apply to all Stock Appreciation Rights that are granted in connection with Options:
(i)
 
Stock Appreciation Rights shall entitle the Participant, upon exercise of all or any part of the Stock Appreciation Rights, to surrender to the Company unexercised that portion of the underlying Option relating to the same number of shares of Company Stock as is covered by the Stock Appreciation Rights (or the portion of the Stock Appreciation Rights so exercised) and to receive in exchange from the Company an amount equal to the excess of (x) the Fair Market Value on the date of exercise of the Company Stock covered by the surrendered portion of the underlying Option over (y) the exercise price of the Company Stock covered by the surrendered portion of the underlying Option. The Committee may limit the amount that the Participant will be entitled to receive upon exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right.
(ii)
 
Upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right and surrender of the related portion of the underlying Option, the Option, to the extent surrendered, shall not thereafter be exercisable.
(iii)
 
The Committee may, in its discretion, grant Stock Appreciation Rights in connection with Options which by their terms become fully exercisable upon a Change of Control, which Stock Appreciation Rights shall only be exercisable following a Change of Control. The underlying Option may provide that such Stock Appreciation Rights shall be payable solely in cash. The terms of the underlying Option shall provide the method by which the value of the Company Stock on the date of exercise shall be calculated based on one of the following alternatives:
 (x)
   
 
the Fair Market Value of the Company Stock on the day of exercise;
 
 (y)
   
 
the highest closing price of the Company Stock on the exchange on which it is then traded, during the 90 days immediately preceding the Change of Control; or 
 
 
 (z)
   
 
the greater of (x) or (y).
7
(iv)
 
Subject to any further conditions upon exercise imposed by the Committee, a Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable only to the extent that the related Option is exercisable, and shall expire no later than the date on which the related Option expires.
(v)
 
A Stock Appreciation Right may only be exercised at a time when the Fair Market Value of the Company Stock covered by the Stock Appreciation Right exceeds the exercise price of the Company Stock covered by the underlying Option.
(b)
 
Whenever the Committee deems it appropriate, Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted without related Options. The terms and conditions of the award shall be set forth in a Stock Appreciation Rights agreement between the Company and the Participant in written or electronic form. The following provisions apply to all Stock Appreciation Rights that are granted without related Options:
(i)
 
Stock Appreciation Rights shall entitle the Participant, upon the exercise of all or any part of the Stock Appreciation Rights, to receive from the Company an amount equal to the excess of (x) the Fair Market Value on the date of exercise of the Company Stock covered by the surrendered Stock Appreciation Rights over (y) the Fair Market Value on the Date of Grant of the Company Stock covered by the Stock Appreciation Rights. The Committee may limit the amount that the Participant may be entitled to receive upon exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right.
(ii)
 
Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable, in whole or in part, at such times as the Committee shall specify in the Participants Stock Appreciation Rights agreement.
(c)
 
The manner in which the Companys obligation arising upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right shall be paid shall be determined by the Committee and shall be set forth in the Participants stock option agreement (if the Stock Appreciation Rights are related to an Option) or Stock Appreciation Rights agreement. The Committee may provide for payment in Company Stock or cash, or a fixed combination of Company Stock or cash, or the Committee may reserve the right to determine the manner of payment at the time the Stock Appreciation Right is exercised. Shares of Company Stock issued upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right shall be valued at their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise.
9.
 
Method of Exercise Of Options And Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
(a)
 
Options and Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised by the Participant by giving notice of the exercise to the Company, stating the number of shares the Participant has elected to purchase under the Option or the number of Stock Appreciation Rights he has elected to exercise. In the case of a purchase of shares under an Option, such notice shall be effective only if accompanied by the exercise price in full paid in cash; provided that, if the terms of an Option so permit, or the Committee by separate action so permits, the Participant may (i) deliver Mature Shares (valued at their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise) in satisfaction of all or any part of the exercise price, or (ii) to the extent permitted under applicable laws and regulations, deliver a properly executed exercise notice together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to exercise all or part of the Option, sell a sufficient number of shares of Company Stock to cover the exercise price, Applicable
 
8
Withholding Taxes (if required by the Committee) and other costs and expenses associated with such sale and deliver promptly the amount necessary to pay the exercise price and any Applicable Withholding Taxes. The Participant shall not be entitled to make payment of the exercise price other than in cash unless provisions for an alternative payment method are included in the Participants stock option agreement or are agreed to in writing by the Company with the approval of the Committee prior to exercise of the Option.
(b)
 
The Company may place on any certificate representing Company Stock issued upon the exercise of an Option or a Stock Appreciation Right any legend deemed desirable by the Companys counsel to comply with federal or state securities laws, and the Company may require of the participant a customary written indication of his investment intent. Until the Participant has made any required payment, including any Applicable Withholding Taxes, and has had issued to him a certificate for the shares of Company Stock acquired, he shall possess no shareholder rights with respect to the shares.
(c)
 
Each Participant shall agree as a condition of the exercise of an Option or a Stock Appreciation Right to pay to the Company Applicable Withholding Taxes, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding the payment to the Company of such amounts. Until Applicable Withholding Taxes have been paid or arrangements satisfactory to the Company have been made, no stock certificate shall be issued upon the exercise of an Option or a Stock Appreciation Right.
As an alternative to making a cash payment to the Company to satisfy Applicable Withholding Taxes if the Option or Stock Appreciation Rights agreement so provides, or the Committee by separate action so provides, a Participant may elect to (i) deliver Mature Shares or (ii) have the Company retain that number of shares of Company Stock that would satisfy all or a specified portion of the Applicable Withholding Taxes. Any such election shall be made only in accordance with procedures established by the Committee.
(d)
 
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if the Company is subject to section 16 of the Act, Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall always be granted and exercised in such a manner as to conform to the provisions of Rule 16b-3.
(e)
 
If a Participant exercises an Option that has a Reload Feature by delivering Mature Shares in payment of the exercise price, the Participant shall automatically be granted a Reload Option. At the time the Option with a Reload Feature is awarded, the Committee may impose such restrictions on the Reload Option as it deems appropriate, but in any event the Reload Option shall be subject to the following restrictions:
(i)
 
The exercise price of shares of Company Stock covered by a Reload Option shall be not less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of such shares on the Date of Grant of the Reload Option;
(ii)
 
If and to the extent required by Rule 16b-3, or if so provided in the Option agreement, a Reload Option shall not be exercisable within the first six months after it is granted; provided that, subject to the terms of the Participants stock option agreement, this restriction shall not apply if the Participant becomes Disabled or dies during the six-month period;
9
(iii)
 
The Reload Option shall be subject to the same restrictions on exercisability imposed on the underlying Option (possessing the Reload Feature) that was exercised unless the Committee specifies different limitations;
(iv)
 
The Reload Option shall not be exercisable until the expiration of any retention holding period imposed on the disposition of any shares of Company Stock covered by the underlying Option (possessing the Reload Feature) that was exercised; and
(v)
 
The Reload Option shall not have a Reload Feature.
10.
 
Nontransferability of Incentive Awards.
Incentive Awards shall not be transferable unless so provided in the award agreement or an amendment to the award agreement; provided, however, that no transfer for value or consideration will be permitted without the prior approval of the Companys shareholders. Options and Stock Appreciation Rights which are intended to be exempt under Rule 16b-3 (to the extent required by Rule 16b-3 at the time of grant or amendment of the award agreement), by their terms, shall not be transferable by the Participant except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and shall be exercisable, during the Participants lifetime, only by the Participant or by his guardian or legal representative.
11.
 
Effective Date of the Plan and Transition.
 
(a)
 
This Plan shall be effective as of the date of separation between the Company and Circuit City Stores, Inc., and shall be submitted to the shareholders of Circuit City Stores, Inc. for approval prior to the separation. No Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable and no Company Stock shall be issued under the Plan until (i) the Plan has been approved by shareholders, (ii) shares issuable under the Plan have been registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission and accepted for listing on the New York Stock Exchange upon notice of issuance, and (iii) the requirements of any applicable state securities laws have been met.
(b)
 
As of the date of separation between the Company and Circuit City Stores, Inc., this Plan shall assume obligations, including outstanding awards, from the Circuit City Stores, Inc. 1988 Stock Incentive Plan and the Circuit City Stores, Inc. 1994 Stock Incentive Plan with respect to employees of the Company or otherwise, to the extent provided in an agreement between the Company and Circuit City Stores, Inc.
12.
 
Termination, Modification, Change.
If not sooner terminated by the Board, this Plan shall terminate at the close of business on the day immediately preceding the tenth anniversary of the date of separation between the Company and Circuit City Stores, Inc. No Incentive Awards shall be granted under the Plan after its termination. The Board may terminate the Plan or may amend the Plan in such respects as it shall deem advisable; provided that, if and to the extent required by the Code or Rule 16b-3, no change shall be made that increases the total number of shares of Company Stock reserved for issuance pursuant to Incentive Awards granted under the Plan (except pursuant to Section 13), expands the class of persons eligible to receive Incentive Awards, or materially increases the benefits accruing to Participants under the
 
10
Plan unless such change is authorized by the shareholders of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may unilaterally amend the Plan and Incentive Awards as it deems appropriate to ensure compliance with Rule 16b-3 and to cause Incentive Awards to meet the requirements of the Code, including Code sections 162(m) and 422, and regulations thereunder. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, a termination or amendment of the Plan shall not, without the consent of the Participant, adversely affect a Participants rights under an Incentive Award previously granted to him. In no event shall any change be made to the Plan that permits repricing of Options unless such change is authorized by the shareholders of the Company.
13.
 
Change in Capital Structure.
 
(a)
 
In the event of a stock dividend, stock split or combination of shares, recapitalization, merger in which the Company is the surviving corporation, reorganization, reincorporation, consolidation, or other change in the Companys capital stock without the receipt of consideration by the Company (including, but not limited to, the creation or issuance to shareholders generally of rights, options or warrants for the purchase of common stock or preferred stock of the Company), the number and kind of shares of stock or securities of the Company to be subject to the Plan and to Incentive Awards then outstanding or to be granted thereunder, the aggregate and individual maximum number of shares or securities which may be delivered under the Plan pursuant to Section 4, and the exercise price and other terms and relevant provisions of Incentive Awards shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee, whose determination shall be binding on all persons; provided, however, that no adjustment of an outstanding Option or Stock Appreciation Right may be made that would create a deferral of income or a modification, extension or renewal of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right under Code Section 409A except as may be permitted in applicable Treasury Regulations. If the adjustment would produce fractional shares with respect to any Restricted Stock or unexercised Option or Stock Appreciation Right, the Committee may adjust appropriately the number of shares covered by the Incentive Award so as to eliminate the fractional shares.
(b)
 
If the Company is a party to a consolidation or merger in which the Company is not the surviving corporation, a transaction that results in the acquisition of substantially all of the Companys outstanding stock by a single person or entity, or a sale or transfer of substantially all of the Companys assets, the Committee may take such actions with respect to outstanding Incentive Awards as the Committee deems appropriate.
(c)
 
Any determination made or action taken under this Section 13 by the Committee shall be final and conclusive and may be made or taken without the consent of any Participant.
14.
 
Administration Of The Plan.
The Plan shall be administered by a Committee, which shall be appointed by the Board, consisting of not less than three members of the Board. Subject to paragraph (e) below, the Committee shall be the Compensation Committee of the Board unless the Board shall appoint another Committee to administer the Plan. The Committee shall have general authority to impose any limitation or condition upon an Incentive Award that the Committee deems appropriate to achieve the objectives of the Incentive Award and the Plan and,
 
11
without limitation and in addition to powers set forth elsewhere in the Plan, shall have the following specific authority:
(a)
 
The Committee shall have the power and complete discretion to determine (i) which eligible employees shall receive an Incentive Award and the nature of the Incentive Award, (ii) the number of shares of Company Stock to be covered by each Incentive Award, (iii) whether Options shall be Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Stock Options, (iv) when, whether and to what extent Stock Appreciation Rights shall be granted in connection with Options, (v) the Fair Market Value of Company Stock, (vi) the time or times when an Incentive Award shall be granted, (vii) whether an Incentive Award shall become vested over a period of time and when it shall be fully vested, (viii) when Options or Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised, (ix) whether a Disability exists, (x) the manner in which payment will be made upon the exercise of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, (xi) conditions relating to the length of time before disposition of Company Stock received upon the exercise of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights is permitted, (xii) whether to approve a Participants election (A) to deliver Mature Shares to satisfy Applicable Withholding Taxes or (B) to have the Company withhold from the shares to be issued upon the exercise of a Nonstatutory Stock Option or a Stock Appreciation Right the number of shares necessary to satisfy Applicable Withholding Taxes, (xiii) the terms and conditions applicable to Restricted Stock Awards, (xiv) the terms and conditions on which restrictions upon Restricted Stock shall lapse, (xv) whether to accelerate the time at which any or all restrictions with respect to Restricted Stock will lapse or be removed, (xvi) notice provisions relating to the sale of Company Stock acquired under the Plan, and (xvii) any additional requirements relating to Incentive Awards that the Committee deems appropriate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no tandem stock options (where two stock options are issued together and the exercise of one option affects the right to exercise the other option) may be issued in connection with Incentive Stock Options. The Committee shall have the power to amend the terms of previously granted Incentive Awards so long as the terms as amended are consistent with the terms of the Plan and provided that the consent of the Participant is obtained with respect to any amendment that would be detrimental to the Participant, except that such consent will not be required if such amendment is for the purpose of complying with Rule 16b-3 or any requirement of the Code applicable to the Incentive Award.
(b)
 
The Committee may adopt rules and regulations for carrying out the Plan. The interpretation and construction of any provision of the Plan by the Committee shall be final and conclusive. The Committee may consult with counsel, who may be counsel to the Company, and shall not incur any liability for any action taken in good faith in reliance upon the advice of counsel.
(c)
 
A majority of the members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, and all actions of the Committee shall be taken by a majority of the members present. Any action may be taken by a written instrument signed by all of the members, and any action so taken shall be fully effective as if it had been taken at a meeting.
(d)
 
The Board from time to time may appoint members previously appointed and may fill vacancies, however caused, in the Committee. If a Committee of the Board is appointed to serve as the Committee, such Committee shall have, in connection with the administration of the Plan,
 
12
the powers possessed by the Board, including the power to delegate a subcommittee of the administrative powers the Committee is authorized to exercise, subject, however, to such resolutions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as may be adopted from time to time by the Board.
(e)
 
All members of the Committee must be outside directors as described in Code section 162(m). In addition, all members of the Committee must be non-employee directors as defined in Rule 16b-3.
15.
 
Notice.
All notices and other communications required or permitted to be given under this Plan shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally or mailed first class, postage prepaid, as follows:
(a)
 
If to the Companyat its principal business address to the attention of the Secretary;
(b)
 
If to any Participantat the last address of the Participant known to the sender at the time the notice or other communication is sent.
16.
 
Shareholder Rights.
No Participant shall be deemed to be the holder of, or to have any of the rights of a holder with respect to, any shares of Company Stock subject to an Incentive Award unless and until such Participation has satisfied all requirements under the terms of the Incentive Award.
17.
 
No Employment or Other Service Rights.
Nothing in the Plan or any instrument executed or Incentive Award granted under the Plan shall confer upon any Participant any right to continue to serve the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary of the Company) in the capacity in effect at the time the Incentive Award was granted or shall affect the right of the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary of the Company) to terminate the employment of a Participant with or without notice and with or without cause.
18.
 
Interpretation.
The terms of the Plan shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, without regard to conflict of law provisions at any jurisdiction. The terms of this Plan are subject to all present and future regulations and rulings of the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate relating to the qualification of Incentive Stock Options under the Code. If any provision of the Plan conflicts with any such regulation or ruling, then that provision of the Plan shall be void and of no effect. As to all Incentive Stock Options and all Nonstatutory Stock Options with an exercise price of at least 100% of Fair Market Value of the Company Stock on the Date of Grant, this Plan shall be interpreted for such Options to be excluded from applicable employee remuneration for purposes of Code section 162(m).
13
IN WITNESS HEREOF, this instrument has been executed this 24
th
day of April, 2006.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

%%FIRST_NAME%-% %%LAST_NAME%-%
 
 
 
%%ADDRESS_LINE_1%-%
%%ADDRESS_LINE_2%-%
%%CITY%-% , %%STATE%-% %%ZIPCODE%-%
 
Dear %%FIRST_NAME%-% %%LAST_NAME%-%
The Board of Directors of CarMax, Inc. (the Company) wants to provide you with an opportunity to share in the success of our Company. Accordingly, I am pleased to inform you that, as of %%OPTION_DATE%_% the Compensation and Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the Committee) exercised its authority pursuant to the CarMax, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the Plan) and granted you
non-statutory options
to purchase shares of the common stock of CarMax, Inc. (the Options) as set forth herein. The Options are
not
qualified for Incentive Stock Option tax treatment. Limited stock appreciation rights (SARs), described below, were also granted in connection with these Options.
The Options and SARs are subject to the provisions of the Plan. The Committee administers the Plan. The terms of the Plan are incorporated into this notice of Stock Option Grant (the Notice of Grant) and in the case of any conflict between the Plan and this Notice of Grant, the terms of the Plan shall control. All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given to them in the Plan. Please refer to the Plan for certain conditions not set forth in this Notice of Grant. Additionally, a copy of a Prospectus for the Plan, which describes material terms of the Plan, can be found on The CarMax Way. Copies of the Prospectus, the Plan and the Companys annual report to shareholders on Form 10-K for fiscal year 20__ are available from the Companys corporate secretary at (804) 747-0042.
Vesting of Options
Except as otherwise provided in this Notice of Grant, the Options will vest and become exercisable according to the following schedule: one-fourth on %%VEST_DATE_PERIOD1%-% , one-fourth on %%VEST_DATE_PERIOD2%-% , one-fourth on %%VEST_DATE_PERIOD3%-% , and one-fourth on %%VEST_DATE_PERIOD4%-% provided you continue to be employed by the Company on such dates.
Termination of Options
The unexercised Options shall terminate upon the earliest to occur of the following conditions:
Exercise of Options
When the Options are exercisable, you may purchase shares of Company common stock under your Option by:
Death, Disability or Retirement
If your employment by the Company terminates because you die, become disabled or retire (in accordance with retirement eligibility provisions of the Companys retirement plan) all of your Options covered by this Notice of Grant will become immediately vested and exercisable, effective as of the date of the termination of your employment, and you, your personal representative, distributees, or legatees, as applicable, may exercise your vested Options at any time before the Expiration Date.
Transferability of Options
Except as provided below, the Options are not transferable by you other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and is exercisable during your lifetime only by you. You may transfer your rights under the Option during your lifetime subject to the following limitations:
Any Option transferred in accordance with the terms hereof shall be accompanied by the associated SAR.
Change of Control; SARs
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the event of a Change of Control, all unvested Options granted hereunder shall immediately vest and you shall have the right during the period beginning on the date of the Change of Control and ending on the Expiration Date to exercise any and all vested Options in accordance with the provisions of this Notice of Grant.
Pursuant to this Notice of Grant, you have been granted one (1) SAR for every Option granted to you hereunder. Following a Change of Control, you may choose to exercise the SARs granted hereunder in lieu of exercising your vested Options. Doing so will relieve you of the obligation to pay for the exercise of your Options as described above and, instead, will allow you to receive a cash payment of the net value of your SARs as calculated below without having to remit any payment to the Company. The SARs granted in connection with the Options are limited SARs and may be exercised in accordance with the Plan and the terms hereof as follows:
Change in Capital Structure
If the number of outstanding shares of the Companys common stock is increased or decreased as a result of a stock dividend, stock split, subdivision or consolidation of shares, or other similar change in capitalization, the number of Company shares for which you have unexercised Options and the exercise price will automatically be adjusted, as provided in the Plan, (i) so as to preserve the ratio that existed immediately before the change between the number of such shares and the total number of shares of Company stock previously outstanding, and (ii) so that your aggregate Option price remains the same; provided, however, that the Company will not be required to issue any fractional shares upon exercise of your Options as a result of such adjustment.
Legal Fees
The grant of these Options does not obligate the Company to continue your employment. If there is any litigation involving Options, each party will bear its own expenses, including all legal fees,
except that in the event of an action brought by you under this Notice of Grant following a Change in Control, then insofar as such action is not deemed to be frivolous by the arbitrator, the Company shall bear all expenses related to the arbitration, including all legal fees incurred by you.
The Committee shall have the authority to interpret and administer this Notice of Grant.
By accepting this grant on-line, this Notice of Grant, together with the Plan, will become a Stock Option Agreement between you and the Company which is governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. Further, b
y accepting this grant online, you agree that you are in compliance with, and will abide by, the Companys Policy Against Insider Trading - Management which can be found on The CarMax Way. Further, by accepting this Notice of Grant, you agree that if you have not yet achieved the Company stock ownership levels required for your position, as applicable, as set forth in the Companys Stock Ownership Guidelines for Certain Executive Officers, then upon exercise of any Options you will retain at least 50% of the underlying shares remaining after satisfaction of the option exercise cost and applicable tax liability.
Sincerely,
[Name, Title]
ACCEPTED:
Signature

 
1.
 
Purpose.
The purpose of this CarMax, Inc. 2002 Non-Employee Directors Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan) is to encourage ownership in CarMax, Inc. (the Company) by non-employee members of the Board of Directors of the Company, in order to promote long-term shareholder value and to provide non-employee directors with an incentive to continue as directors of the Company.
2.
 
Definitions.
As used in the Plan, the following terms have the meanings indicated:
(a)
 
Act means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(b)
 
Board means the Board of Directors of the Company.
(c)
 
Change of Control means the occurrence of either of the following events: (i) any individual, entity or group (as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Act) becomes, or obtains the right to become, the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13(d)(3) under the Act) of Company securities having 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of the Company that may be cast for the election of directors to the Board of the Company (other than as a result of an issuance of securities initiated by the Company in the ordinary course of business); or (ii) as the result of, or in connection with, any cash tender or exchange offer, merger or other business combination, sale of assets or contested election, or any combination of the foregoing transactions, the persons who were directors of the Company before such transactions shall cease to constitute a majority of the Board or of the board of directors of any successor to the Company.
(d)
 
Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(e)
 
Company means CarMax, a Virginia corporation.
(f)
 
Company Stock means shares of CarMax Common Stock subject to the limits of Section 4. Such shares shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 14.
(g)
 
Date of Grant means the date on which an Incentive Award is granted by the Board.
(h)
 
Disability or Disabled means a disability as determined by the Board.
(i)
 
Fair Market Value means, for any given date, the fair market value of the Company Stock as of such date, as determined by the Board on a basis consistently applied based on actual transactions in Company Stock on the exchange on which it generally has the greatest trading volume.
(j)
 
Incentive Award means, collectively, the award of an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, or Stock Grants under the Plan.
(k)
 
Nonstatutory Stock Option means an Option that does not meet the requirements of Code section 422 or, even if meeting the requirements of Code section 422, is not intended to be an incentive stock option under Code section 422 and is so designated.
(l)
 
Option means a right to purchase Company Stock granted under the Plan, at a price determined in accordance with the Plan.
(m)
 
Participant means any non-employee member of the Board who receives an Incentive Award under the Plan.
(n)
 
Restricted Stock means Company Stock awarded upon the terms and subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 6.
(o)
 
Restricted Stock Award means an award of Restricted Stock granted under the Plan.
(p)
 
Rule 16b-3 means Rule 16b-3 adopted pursuant to section 16(b) of the Act. A reference in the Plan to Rule 16b-3 shall include a reference to any corresponding rule (or number redesignation) of any amendments to Rule 16b-3 adopted after the effective date of the Plans adoption.
(q)
 
Stock Appreciation Right means a right to receive amounts from the Company awarded upon the terms and subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 8.
(r)
 
Stock Grant means Company Stock awarded without restrictions in accordance with Section 9.
3.
 
General.
Incentive Awards may be granted under the Plan in the form of Nonstatutory Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, and Stock Grants.
4.
 
Stock.
Subject to Section 14 of the Plan, there shall be reserved for issuance under the Plan (i) an aggregate of 250,000 shares of CarMax Common Stock, which shall be authorized, but unissued shares. Shares of CarMax Common Stock that have not been issued and allocated to options or portions thereof that expire or otherwise terminate unexercised may be subjected to an Incentive Award under the Plan. Shares of a series of Company Stock that have not been issued under the Plan and that are allocable to Incentive Awards or portions thereof that expire or otherwise terminate unexercised may again be subjected to an Incentive Award under the Plan relating to shares of the same series of Company Stock. Similarly, if any shares of Restricted Stock issued pursuant to the Plan are reacquired by the Company as a result of a forfeiture of such shares pursuant to the Plan, such shares may again be subjected to an Incentive Award under the Plan relating to shares of the same series of Company Stock as those reacquired.
 
2
5.
 
Eligibility.
 
(a)
 
Each director of the Company who is not a full-time employee of the Company or any parent or subsidiary of the Company shall be eligible to receive Incentive Awards under the Plan. The Board shall have the power and complete discretion, as provided in Section 15, to select which directors shall receive Incentive Awards and to determine for each such Participant the terms and conditions, the nature of the award and the number of shares to be allocated to each Participant as part of each Incentive Award.
(b)
 
The grant of an Incentive Award shall not obligate the Company to pay a Participant any particular amount of remuneration or to make further grants to the Participant at any time thereafter.
6.
 
Restricted Stock Awards.
 
(a)
 
Whenever the Board deems it appropriate to grant a Restricted Stock Award, notice shall be given to the Participant stating the number of shares of Restricted Stock for which the Restricted Stock Award is granted and the terms and conditions to which the Restricted Stock Award is subject. This notice shall become an award agreement between the Company and the Participant. A Restricted Stock Award may be made by the Board in its discretion without cash consideration.
(b)
 
Restricted Stock issued pursuant to the Plan shall be subject to the following restrictions:
(i)
 
None of such shares may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated, or otherwise encumbered or disposed of until the restrictions on such shares shall have lapsed or shall have been removed pursuant to paragraph (d) or (e) below.
(ii)
 
The restrictions on such shares must remain in effect and may not lapse for a period of three years beginning on the date of grant, except as provided under paragraph (d) or (e) in the case of Disability, retirement, death or a Change in Control.
(iii)
 
If a Participant ceases to be a director of the Company, the Participant shall forfeit to the Company any shares of Restricted Stock, the restrictions on which shall not have lapsed or shall not have been removed pursuant to paragraph (d) or (e) below, on the date such Participant shall cease to serve as a member of the Board.
(iv)
 
The Board may establish such other restrictions on such shares that the Board deems appropriate, including, without limitation, events of forfeiture.
(c)
 
Upon the acceptance by a Participant of a Restricted Stock Award, such Participant shall, subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraph (b) above, have all the rights of a shareholder with respect to the shares of Restricted Stock subject to such Restricted Stock Award, including, but not limited to, the right to vote such shares of Restricted Stock and the right to receive all dividends and other distributions paid thereon. Certificates representing Restricted Stock shall
 
3
bear a legend referring to the restrictions set forth in the Plan and the Participants award agreement. If shares of Restricted Stock are issued without certificates, notice of the restrictions set forth in the Plan and the Participants Award Agreement must be given to the shareholder in the manner required by law.
(d)
 
The Board shall establish as to each Restricted Stock Award the terms and conditions upon which the restrictions set forth in paragraph (b) above shall lapse. Such terms and conditions may include, without limitation, the lapsing of such restrictions as a result of the Disability, death or retirement of the Participant or the occurrence of a Change of Control.
(e)
 
Notwithstanding the forfeiture provisions of paragraph (b)(iii) above, the Board may at any time, in its sole discretion, accelerate the time at which any or all restrictions will lapse or remove any and all such restrictions.
7.
 
Stock Options.
 
(a)
 
Whenever the Board deems it appropriate to grant Options, notice shall be given to the eligible non-employee director stating the number of shares for which Options are granted, the Option price per share, the extent, if any, to which Stock Appreciation Rights are granted, and the conditions to which the grant and exercise of the Options are subject. This notice shall become a stock option agreement between the Company and the eligible non-employee director.
(b)
 
The exercise price of shares of Company Stock covered by a Nonstatutory Stock Option shall be not less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of such shares on the Date of Grant.
(c)
 
Options may be exercised in whole or in part at such times as may be specified by the Board in the Participants stock option agreement.
(d)
 
The Board may, in its discretion, grant Options that by their terms become fully exercisable upon a Change of Control notwithstanding other conditions on exercisability in the stock option agreement.
8.
 
Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
(a)
 
Whenever the Board deems it appropriate, Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted. The terms and conditions of the award shall be set forth in a stock appreciation rights agreement between the Company and the Participant. The following provisions apply to all Stock Appreciation Rights that are granted:
(i)
 
Stock Appreciation Rights shall entitle the Participant, upon the exercise of all or any part of the Stock Appreciation Rights, to receive from the Company an amount equal to the excess of (x) the fair market value on the date of exercise of the Company Stock covered by the Stock Appreciation Rights over (y) the fair market value on the Date of Grant of the Company Stock covered by the Stock Appreciation Rights. The Board may limit the amount that the Participant may be entitled to receive upon exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right.
 
4
(ii)
 
Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable, in whole or in part, at such times as the Board shall specify in the Participants stock appreciation rights agreement.
(b)
 
The manner in which the Companys obligation arising upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right shall be paid shall be determined by the Board and shall be set forth in the Participants stock appreciation rights agreement. The Board may provide for payment in Company Stock or cash, or a fixed combination of Company Stock or cash, or the Board may reserve the right to determine the manner of payment at the time the Stock Appreciation Right is exercised. Shares of Company Stock issued upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right shall be valued at their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise.
9.
 
Stock Grants.
 
(a)
 
Whenever the Board deems it appropriate, a Stock Grant may be made to eligible non-employee directors. The Board shall have complete discretion to make such Stock Grants and may do so whenever it considers it appropriate.
(b)
 
Whenever the Board deems it appropriate, it may permit eligible non-employee directors to elect to receive a Stock Grant in lieu of retainer, meeting fees or other such fees to which such directors would otherwise be entitled. The Company Stock to be issued in connection with such a Stock Grant shall have a Fair Market Value equal to such fees otherwise payable, determined as of the date on which such payment of fees would otherwise become payable to such member of the Board.
10.
 
Method of Exercise of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
(a)
 
Options and Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised by the Participant giving notice of the exercise to the Company, stating the number of shares the Participant has elected to purchase under the Option or the number of Stock Appreciation Rights he has elected to exercise. In the case of a purchase of shares under an Option, such notice shall be effective only if accompanied by the exercise price in full paid in cash; provided that, if the terms of an Option so permit, the Participant may: (i) deliver shares of Participant-owned Company Stock (valued at their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise) in satisfaction of all or any part of the exercise price; or (ii) to the extent permitted under applicable laws and regulations, deliver a properly executed exercise notice together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to exercise all or part of the Option, sell a sufficient number of shares of Company Stock to cover the exercise price and other costs and expenses associated with such sale and deliver promptly the amount necessary to pay the exercise price. The Participant shall not be entitled to make payment of the exercise price other than in cash unless provisions for an alternative payment method are included in the Participants stock option agreement or are agreed to in writing by the Company with the approval of the Board prior to exercise of the Option.
(b)
 
Until the Participant has made any required payment, and has had issued to him a certificate for the shares of Company Stock acquired, he shall possess no shareholder rights with respect to the shares.
 
5
(c)
 
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if the Company is subject to section 16 of the Act, Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall always be granted and exercised in such a manner as to conform to the provisions of Rule 16b-3.
(d)
 
Any shares of already owned Company Stock that are delivered by a Participant in satisfaction of all or any part of the exercise price of an Option shall be of the same series of Company Stock as the shares of Company Stock to which such Incentive Award relates.
11.
 
Transferability of Incentive Awards.
Nonstatutory Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights may be transferable by a Participant and exercisable by a person other than the Participant, but only to the extent specifically provided in the Incentive Award; provided, however, that no transfer for value or consideration will be permitted without the prior approval of the Companys shareholders.
12.
 
Effective Date of the Plan and Transition.
 
(a)
 
This Plan shall be effective as of the date of separation between the Company and Circuit City Stores, Inc., and shall be submitted to the shareholders of Circuit City Stores, Inc. for approval prior to the separation. No Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable and no Company Stock shall be issued under the Plan until (i) the Plan has been approved by the Companys shareholders, (ii) shares issuable under the Plan have been registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission and accepted for listing on the New York Stock Exchange upon notice of issuance, and (iii) the requirements of any applicable state securities laws have been met.
(b)
 
As of the date of separation between the Company and Circuit City Stores, Inc., this Plan shall assume obligations, including outstanding awards, from the Circuit City Stores, Inc. Amended And Restated 1989 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan, to the extent provided in an agreement between the Company and Circuit City Stores, Inc.
13.
 
Termination, Modification, Change.
If not sooner terminated by the Board, this Plan shall terminate at the close of business on the day immediately preceding the tenth anniversary of the separation between the Company and Circuit City Stores, Inc. No Incentive Awards shall be granted under the Plan after its termination. The Board may terminate the Plan or may amend the Plan in such respects as it shall deem advisable; provided that no change shall be made that increases the total number of shares of Company Stock reserved for issuance pursuant to Incentive Awards granted under the Plan (except pursuant to Section 14) or permit repricing of options, unless such change is authorized by the shareholders of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may unilaterally amend the Plan and Incentive Awards as it deems appropriate to ensure compliance with Rule 16b-3. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, a termination or amendment of the Plan shall not, without the consent of the Participant, adversely affect a Participants rights under an Incentive Award previously granted to him.
 
6
14.
 
Change in Capital Structure.
 
(a)
 
The number of shares reserved for issuance under the Plan, the terms of Incentive Awards, and all computations under the Plan shall be appropriately adjusted by the Board should the Company effect one or more stock dividends, stock splits, subdivisions or consolidations of shares, or other similar changes in capitalization, or if the par value of Company Stock is altered; provided, however, that no adjustment of an outstanding Option or Stock Appreciation Right may be made that would create a deferral of income or a modification, extension or renewal of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right under Code Section 409A except as may be permitted in applicable Treasury Regulations. If the adjustment would produce fractional shares with respect to any unexercised Option, the Board may adjust appropriately the number of shares covered by the Option so as to eliminate the fractional shares.
(b)
 
If the Company is a party to a consolidation or merger in which the Company is not the surviving corporation, a transaction that results in the acquisition of substantially all of the Companys outstanding stock by a single person or entity, or a sale or transfer of substantially all of the Companys assets, the Board may take such actions with respect to outstanding Incentive Awards as the Board deems appropriate.
(c)
 
Any determination made or action taken under this Section 14 by the Board shall be final and conclusive and may be made or taken without the consent of any Participant.
15.
 
Administration of the Plan.
The Plan shall be administered by the Board. The Board shall have general authority to impose any limitation or condition upon an Incentive Award that the Board deems appropriate to achieve the objectives of the Incentive Award and the Plan and, without limitation and in addition to powers set forth elsewhere in the Plan, shall have the following specific authority:
(a)
 
The Board shall have the power and complete discretion to determine (i) which eligible non-employee directors shall receive an Incentive Award and the nature of the Incentive Award, (ii) the number of shares of Company Stock to be covered by each Incentive Award, (iii) when, whether and to what extent Stock Appreciation Rights shall be granted, (iv) the fair market value of Company Stock, (v) the time or times when an Incentive Award shall be granted, (vi) whether an Incentive Award shall become vested over a period of time and when it shall be fully vested, (vii) when Options and Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised, (viii) whether a Disability exists, (ix) the manner in which payment will be made upon the exercise of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, (x) conditions relating to the length of time before disposition of Company Stock received upon the exercise of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights is permitted, (xi) the terms and conditions applicable to Restricted Stock Awards, (xii) the terms and conditions on which restrictions upon Restricted Stock shall lapse, (xiii) whether to accelerate the time at which any or all restrictions with respect to Restricted Stock will lapse or be removed, (xiv) notice provisions relating to the sale of Company Stock acquired under the Plan, and (xv) any additional requirements relating to Incentive Awards that the Board deems appropriate. The Board shall have the power to amend the terms of previously granted Incentive Awards so long as the terms as amended are consistent with the terms of the Plan and provided that the consent
 
7
of the Participant is obtained with respect to any amendment that would be detrimental to the Participant, except that such consent will not be required if such amendment is for the purpose of complying with Rule 16b-3.
(b)
 
The Board may adopt rules and regulations for carrying out the Plan. The interpretation and construction of any provision of the Plan by the Board shall be final and conclusive. The Board may consult with counsel, who may be counsel to the Company, and shall not incur any liability for any action taken in good faith in reliance upon the advice of counsel.
(c)
 
A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, and all actions of the Board shall be taken by a majority of the members present. Any action may be taken by a written instrument signed by all of the members, and any action so taken shall be fully effective as if it had been taken at a meeting.
16.
 
Notice.
All notices and other communications required or permitted to be given under this Plan may be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally or mailed first class, postage prepaid, as follows: (a) If to the Companyat its principal business address to the attention of the Secretary; (b) If to any Participantat the last address of the Participant known to the sender at the time the notice or other communication is sent.
17.
 
Miscellaneous.
By accepting any Incentive Award under the Plan, each Participant, and each person claiming under or through such person, shall be conclusively deemed to have given his or her acceptance and ratification of, and consent to, any action taken with respect thereto by the Company or the Board.
IN WITNESS HEREOF, this instrument has been executed this 24
th
day of April, 2006.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

[Date]
Title
 
FirstName
 
LastName
Company
Address1
Address2
City
,
State
 
PostalCode
Dear
FirstName
:
You have been granted non-statutory stock options (the Options) to purchase shares of the common stock of CarMax, Inc. (the Company) as set forth herein. This grant is made pursuant to the 2002 Non-Employee Directors Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the Plan). The Options are
not
qualified for Incentive Stock Option treatment.
The Options are subject to the provisions of the Plan. The terms of the Plan are incorporated into this letter and in the case of any conflict between the Plan and this letter, the terms of the Plan shall control. All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given to them in the Plan. Please refer to the Plan for certain conditions not set forth in this letter. Copies of the Plan and the Companys annual report to shareholders on Form 10-K for fiscal year 20__ are available from the Companys corporate secretary at (804) 747-0422.
Vesting of Options
The Options shall vest, and shall be exercisable, on the earliest of the following dates:
The Options may be exercised in whole or in part, from the dates described immediately above until the Options terminate, as described below.
Termination of Options
The Options shall terminate under the following conditions:
1of 3
Death, Disability or Cessation of Services after Ten Years Service
If your service as a Director terminates (i) because you die, (ii) because you become disabled, or (iii) for any other reason after service as a Director for a period of at least ten (10) consecutive years, all of your Options covered by this letter will become immediately vested and exercisable, effective as of the date of such termination, and you, your personal representative, distributees, or legatees, as applicable, may exercise your vested Options at any time before the Expiration Date.
Exercise of Options
When the Options are exercisable, you may purchase shares of Company Common Stock under your Option by:
 
Transferability of Options
Except as provided below, the Options are not transferable by you other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and is exercisable during your lifetime only by you. You may transfer your rights under the Option during your lifetime subject to the following limitations:
 
1.
 
Transfers are allowed only to the following transferees:
 
2 of 3
Change in Capital Structure
If the number of outstanding shares of the Companys Common Stock is increased or decreased as a result of a stock dividend, stock split, subdivision or consolidation of shares, or other similar change in capitalization, the number of Company shares for which you have unexercised Options and the exercise price will automatically be adjusted, as provided in the Plan, (i) so as to preserve the ratio that existed immediately before the change between the number of such shares and the total number of shares of Company stock previously outstanding, and (ii) so that your aggregate Option price remains the same; provided, however, that the Company will not be required to issue any fractional shares upon exercise of your Options as a result of such adjustment.
Acceptance of Option
Please indicate your acceptance of the terms and conditions pertaining to the Options granted herein by signing your name in the space provided below and returning one copy to the attention of [__________]. When signed by you, this letter, together with the Plan, will become a Stock Option Agreement between you and the Company which is governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.
This letter will not be effective as a Stock Option Agreement unless it is signed and returned to ____________ at the CarMax Home Office (12800 Tuckahoe Creek Parkway, Richmond, VA 23238), as soon as possible, but in no event later than [_______, 20__].
Acceptance of this letter places no obligation or commitment on you to exercise the Options. By accepting this letter, you agree that if you have not achieved the Company stock ownership levels as required by the Companys Corporate Governance Guidelines, if applicable, then upon exercise of any Options you will retain at least 50% of the underlying shares remaining after satisfaction of the option exercise cost and applicable tax liability.
Sincerely,
Keith D. Browning
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Accepted this ______________ day of ___________________________, 2006
 
______________________________________________
Signature
______________________________________________
Printed Name
 
3 of 3

RICHMOND, Va., April 28, 2006 - CarMax, Inc. (NYSE:KMX) announced today that its board of directors has elected Vivian M. Stephenson, chief operating officer for Williams-Sonoma, Inc., to membership on the board.
Ms. Stephenson joined Williams-Sonoma, a $3.5 billion specialty retailer of products for the home, in 2003 as chief operating officer. From 2000 to 2003, she served as a consultant to Apple Computer and Williams-Sonoma. Ms. Stephenson was executive vice president and chief information officer for Target Corporation from 1995 to 2000. She joined Mervyns, then a Dayton Hudson Corporation division, in October 1989 as director of information systems development and earned positions of increasing responsibility in management information systems, culminating in her promotion to executive vice president and chief information officer of Target Corporation, Dayton Hudson Corporations successor organization. Prior to Target Corporation, Ms. Stephenson held management positions with Rand Information Systems, Occidental Petroleum Corporation, and IBM, among others. She plans to retire from Williams-Sonoma at the end of June 2006.
Ms. Stephenson earned a bachelors degree in mathematics from New York University and an MBA from the University of Havana. In 2005 she received a Doctor of Humane Letters honorary degree from Mills College. Ms. Stephenson currently serves as chair of the Mills College Board of Trustees and is a member of the board of directors of the California State Automobile Association (AAA).
Vivian brings broad experience and a unique set of skills to the CarMax board - in-depth systems expertise, coupled with strong retailing experience at such pre-eminent retailers as Williams-Sonoma and Target, said Austin Ligon, president and chief executive officer of CarMax. We look forward to Vivians contributions as a director as we continue to build on the proprietary processes and systems that help give CarMax its competitive edge.
CarMax, Inc.
Page
of 2
CarMax, a
Fortune
500 company and one of the
Fortune
2006 100 Best Companies to Work For, is the nations largest retailer of used cars. Headquartered in Richmond, Va., CarMax currently operates 68 used car superstores in 32 markets. CarMax also operates seven new car franchises, all of which are integrated or co-located with its used car superstores. During the twelve month period ended February 28, 2006, the company retailed 289,888 used cars, which is 93% of the total 310,789 vehicles the company retailed during that period. For more information, access the CarMax website at www.carmax.com.
Contacts:
Investors and Financial Media:
 
Dandy Barrett, Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations, (804) 935-4591
Celeste Gunter, Manager, Investor Relations, (804) 935-4597
General Media:
Lisa Van Riper, Assistant Vice President, Public Affairs, (804) 935-4594
Trina Lee, Public Relations Manager, (804) 747-0422, ext. 4197


