FILE:KMX/KMX-8K-20071219081011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Richmond, Va. December 19, 2007  CarMax, Inc. (NYSE:KMX) today reported results for the third fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2007.
Third Quarter
 
Business Performance Review
.  Current economic conditions clearly affected our performance this quarter, said Tom Folliard, president and chief executive officer.  Our flat comparable store used unit sales reflected the combination of the near-term decline in consumer confidence and a slowing sales pace for the automotive retail industry, as well as the challenging comparison with our 13% increase in last years third quarter.  However, considering the difficult economic environment, we are pleased with our performance, and we achieved sales and gross profits consistent with our previously revised expectations.  In addition, our data indicates that we continue to gain market share in the late-model used vehicle market.
Sales
       
CarMax, Inc.
           
Page 2 of 11
We continued to experience healthy consumer traffic, which we believe benefited from the favorable response to the improvements to carmax.com made over the last several quarters.  However, compared with the prior year period, our sales conversion rate declined as consumers appeared to be more hesitant in committing to big-ticket purchases.  Sales were supported by the continued consistent availability of credit from CAF and our third-party finance providers.
Wholesale sales increased by 4% in the quarter, slower than our used retail sales growth, reflecting the challenging comparison with the prior year, when wholesale sales climbed 30%.  Our wholesale sales represent customer vehicle trade-ins and appraisal purchases that do not meet our retail standards.
New vehicle sales declined by 30%, reflecting the combination of the soft new car sales environment and the sale of our Orlando Chrysler Jeep Dodge franchise in the second quarter.  Other sales and revenues increased 9%, similar to our used vehicle sales growth.
.  Our total gross profit per unit declined slightly to $2,723 compared with $2,736 in last years third quarter.  Our retail used vehicle gross profit per unit was $1,886, only $12 lower than the prior year.  The year-over-year $32 increase in our wholesale profit per unit reflected the continued benefit of our superior car-buying process, as well as continued strong dealer attendance at our auctions.
Gross Profit
Compared with the second quarter of this year, the total gross profit per unit declined by $146, with decreases in all vehicle categories.  We expect gross profits to decrease sequentially from the second quarter to the third quarter, reflecting the normal seasonal slowdown in traffic, the higher vehicle depreciation that typically occurs during the model-year changeover period and our resulting lower margin targets.
.  CAF income declined 49% to $16.3 million from $32.0 million in last years third quarter.  As previously reported and included in our revised expectations, the current quarter CAF income was adversely affected by wider spreads and higher swap unwind costs related to our 2007-3 public securitization at the beginning of the quarter, which reduced CAF income by $8 million.
CarMax Auto Finance
In addition, continuing turmoil in the asset-backed credit markets drove funding costs higher in CAFs warehouse facility as the spread between asset-backed commercial paper rates and benchmark rates widened significantly during the quarter.  As a result, CAF income was reduced by an additional $4.6 million related to loans remaining in the warehouse facility that were originated in prior quarters.  The wider spreads on asset-backed commercial paper also reduced CAFs gain percentage on loans originated during the quarter.  CAFs gain on loans originated and sold during the third quarter declined to 3.6% compared with 4.3% in the prior years quarter.
CAF income for the current years quarter was also adversely affected by $1.5 million primarily related to adjustments in loss assumptions on pools of previously securitized loans.
.  The SG&A ratio increased to 11.2% in this years third quarter compared with 10.6% in the corresponding quarter of last year.  The increase in rate largely resulted from our flat comparable store used unit sales and our commitment to our ongoing growth plans, as well as our decision to continue spending on our strategic, operational and Internet initiatives during the quarter.
SG&A
       
CarMax, Inc.
    
Page 3 of 11
.  As expected, comparable store sales growth was more challenging in the weak near-term economic environment, but we generally achieved our revised sales and margin targets.  Our 34% decline in net earnings for the quarter was primarily associated with the impact of higher CAF funding costs.  Notwithstanding these higher current funding costs, we continue to believe that having our own finance operation provides us with strategic advantages and increased profitability over the long term.
Earnings and Earnings Per Share
.  During the third quarter, we opened five superstores, including one production superstore in Charlotte, N.C., and four non-production superstores in Atlanta, Ga.; Newport News, Va.; Los Angeles, Calif.; and San Diego, Calif.  Through the first nine months of fiscal 2008, we opened nine superstores, including two production superstores and seven non-production superstores.
Store Openings
Early in the fourth quarter, we opened production superstores in Omaha, Neb., and Jackson, Miss., and we plan to open a non-production superstore in Baltimore, Md., in February 2008.  In total, we expect to open 12 superstores during fiscal 2008, expanding our store base by 16%,.  The opening date for our store in Modesto, Calif., previously planned for February, has been shifted to March as a result of normal construction scheduling changes.
consistent with our target for used car superstore annual growth in the range of 15% to 20%
During the first nine months of fiscal 2008, we expanded our car-buying center test with the opening of buying centers in the Raleigh, N.C., and Tampa, Fla., markets.  At these locations, we conduct appraisals and purchase cars, but do not sell vehicles.  These test centers are part of our long-term plan to increase both appraisal traffic and retail vehicle sourcing self-sufficiency.  In the coming months, we plan to further expand this test by opening car-buying centers in Dallas, Tex., and Baltimore, Md.
Supplemental Financial Information
Sales Components
 
 
           
                   
CarMax, Inc.
 
Page 4 of 11
Retail Vehicle Sales Changes
Retail Vehicle Sales Mix
Unit Sales
Average Selling Prices
           
 
       
CarMax, Inc.
Page 5 of 11
Selected Operating Ratios
Gross Profit
Earnings Highlights
Fiscal 2008 Expectations
Our sales performance in the quarter was generally consistent with our revised expectations and, accordingly, we now expect comparable store used unit sales growth of approximately 2% for fiscal 2008, said Folliard.  Previously, we expected fiscal 2008 comparable store used unit sales growth in the range of 1% to 3%.  Comparable store used unit sales increased by 9% in fiscal 2007.  As always, our projections are not adjusted for the possibility of unusual winter weather, which could adversely affect our fourth quarter sales.
           
             
CarMax, Inc.
     
Page  6 of 11
Primarily as a result of the continued turmoil in the asset-backed credit markets and the resulting higher funding costs, we are further reducing our fiscal 2008 earnings expectations, said Folliard.  We now expect earnings per share in the range of $0.87 to $0.93.  Previously, we expected earnings per share in the range of $0.92 to $0.98.  We earned $0.92 per share in fiscal 2007.
Our revised forecast includes provisions for higher CAF funding costs resulting from wider spreads that we expect to continue into the fiscal fourth quarter.  We currently intend to execute our next public securitization in the fourth quarter, assuming the markets stabilize somewhat.  However, given the unprecedented recent instability of the asset-backed public market, we have temporarily increased our warehouse facility capacity by $300 million in order to provide us with additional funding flexibility.
The wide range of earnings expectations, despite having only one quarter remaining in fiscal 2008, reflects the uncertainty surrounding the credit markets and CAFs funding costs.
Future Superstore Opening Plan
During the twelve months ending November 30, 2008, we currently expect to open 13 used car superstores, including 8 production stores and 5 non-production stores.  Details of the planned store openings are as follows:
Normal construction, permitting, or other scheduling delays could shift the opening dates of any stores into a later period.
           
                  
CarMax, Inc.
 
Page  7 of 11
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2008 Earnings Release Date
We currently plan to release sales and earnings for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended February 29, 2008, on Wednesday, April 2, 2008, before the opening of the New York Stock Exchange.  We will host a conference call for investors at 9:00 a.m. ET on that date.  Further information on this conference call will be available on our investor information home page at investor.carmax.com in March 2008.
Conference Call Information
We will host a conference call for investors at 9:00 a.m. ET today, December 19, 2007.  Domestic investors may access the call at 1-888-298-3261 (international investors should dial 1-706-679-7457).  The conference I.D. for both domestic and international callers is 9752175.  A live webcast of the call will be available on our investor information home page at investor.carmax.com and at www.streetevents.com.
A webcast replay of the call will be available at investor.carmax.com beginning at approximately
1:00 p.m. ET on December 19, 2007, through January 18, 2008.  A telephone replay also will be available through December 26, 2007, and may be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687 (international callers dial
1-706-645-9291).  The conference I.D. for both domestic and international callers is 9752175.
About CarMax
CarMax, a 500 company, and one of the 2007 100 Best Companies to Work For, is the nations largest retailer of used cars.  Headquartered in Richmond, Va., CarMax currently operates 88 used car superstores in 41 markets.  The CarMax consumer offer is structured around four core equities: low, no-haggle prices; a broad selection; high quality vehicles and customer-friendly service.  During the fiscal year ended February 28, 2007, we retailed 337,021 used cars and sold 208,959 wholesale vehicles at our in-store auctions.  For more information, access the CarMax website at www.carmax.com.
Fortune
Fortune
Forward-Looking Statements
We caution readers that the statements contained in this release about our future business plans, operations, opportunities, or prospects, including without limitation any statements or factors regarding expected sales, margins, or earnings, are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Such forward-looking statements are based upon managements current knowledge and assumptions about future events and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results.  Among the factors that could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements are the following: changes in the general U.S. or regional U.S. economy; intense competition within our industry; significant changes in retail prices for used and new vehicles; a reduction in the availability or our access to sources of inventory; our ability to acquire suitable real estate; the significant loss of key employees from our store, regional, or corporate management teams; the efficient operation of our information systems; changes in the availability or cost of capital and working capital financing; changes in the market for asset-backed financing; the occurrence of adverse weather events; seasonal fluctuations in our business; the geographic concentration of our superstores; the regulatory environment in which we operate; the effect of various litigation matters; the effect of new accounting requirements or changes to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; and the occurrence of certain other material events.  We disclaim any intent or obligation to update our forward-looking statements.
           
                  
CarMax, Inc.
 
Page 8 of 11
For more details on factors that could affect expectations, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2007, and our quarterly or current reports as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
:
Contacts
Investors and Financial Media:
Katharine Kenny, Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations, (804) 935-4591
Celeste Gunter, Manager, Investor Relations, (804) 935-4597
General Media:
Lisa Van Riper, Assistant Vice President, Public Affairs, (804) 935-4594
Trina Lee, Public Relations Manager, (804) 747-0422, ext. 4197
           
             
CarMax, Inc.
     
Page 9 of 11
           
             
CarMax, Inc.
     
Page 10 of 11
           
             
CarMax, Inc.
     
Page 11 of 11


