FILE:KMX/KMX-8K-20080618075659.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Richmond, Va., June 18, 2008  CarMax, Inc. (NYSE:KMX) today reported results for the first quarter ended May 31, 2008.
 
First Quarter Business Performance Review
.  The slowdown in the economy, the dramatic rise in gasoline and food costs and the related impact on consumer spending adversely affected our first quarter performance, said Tom Folliard, president and chief executive officer.  For the first time in more than two years, we experienced a modest decline in customer traffic in our stores.  Additionally, credit availability from our third-party nonprime lenders declined slightly during the quarter.  However, solid execution by our store teams resulted in a small improvement in our conversion rate, and this, together with the benefit of an extra Saturday in the quarter, contributed to the 1% increase in comparable store used unit sales.  Despite the slower-than-expected sales, our data indicates that we continued to gain market share in the late-model used vehicle market.
Sales
Wholesale unit sales declined 2%, reflecting a decrease in both our appraisal traffic and our appraisal buy rate (defined as appraisal purchases as a percent of vehicles appraised).  We believe that the significant depreciation in wholesale market values for SUVs, trucks and other less fuel-efficient vehicles contributed to the decrease in the buy rate.  During the quarter, wholesale industry prices for SUVs and trucks declined nearly 25%, which is approximately four times the normal over this period and well in excess of the depreciation expected over a full year.  This is the most rapid depreciation of any vehicle segment that we have experienced in our 15 years, said Folliard.
depreciation expected
 
 
 
 
 
 
CarMax, Inc.
Page 2 of 10
New vehicle unit sales declined 26%, reflecting the combination of the soft new car sales environment and the sale of our Orlando Chrysler Jeep Dodge franchise in the second quarter of fiscal 2008.  Other sales and revenues increased 4%.  Third-party finance fees, a component of other sales and revenues, declined 7%, primarily reflecting a slight increase in the percentage of our sales financed by the third-party subprime provider.  We record the discount at which this provider purchases loans as an offset to finance fee revenues received from other providers.
.The total gross profit per unit declined by $237 to $2,564 compared with $2,801 in the first quarter of fiscal 2008.  The majority of the decline resulted from the $192 per unit decrease in gross profit per used vehicle.  Several factors contributed to this decrease.  Our used vehicle gross profit per unit was pressured by the slowing sales environment.  The decline in appraisal traffic and the buy rate also adversely affected our gross profit per unit, as vehicles purchased directly from consumers generate more profit compared with vehicles sourced at auction.  The rapid decline in the wholesale market values for SUVs and trucks resulted in significant margin pressure on this segment of our inventory, and it led us to take supplemental pricing markdowns for these vehicles, which further pressured margins.  Compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, however, we achieved a $33 per unit improvement in total gross profit.
Gross Profit
 
Wholesale gross profit per unit declined slightly, to $784 from $800 in the first quarter of fiscal 2008.  We continued to experience strong dealer-to-car ratios at our auctions, with the normal price competition among bidders contributing to the continued solid wholesale gross profit performance.
.  CAF income declined to $9.8 million from $37.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, reflecting the continuing effects of the disruption in global credit markets and the more challenging economic environment.  The gain percentage, which represents the gain on the sale of loans originated and sold as a percentage of loans originated and sold, decreased to 2.7% from 4.2% in the prior years first quarter.  The decrease reflected a combination of factors, including substantially higher funding costs in the warehouse facility, which we have been unable to offset through higher consumer rates in the current environment; an increase in the discount rate assumption used to calculate the gain on the sale of loans to 17% from 12% in the first quarter of last year; and a higher loss assumption on current quarter originations compared with the assumption used in the prior years quarter.
CarMax Auto Finance
We are in the process of renewing our warehouse facility agreement, which expires in July.  Due to conditions in the credit markets, the funding cost in the facility will increase upon its renewal, and it will align more closely with the current funding costs in the public securitization market.  We have reflected these higher funding costs in the gain on sale recognized on all loans originated and sold in the first quarter of fiscal 2009.  The higher warehouse facility funding costs are expected to reduce the adjustments that may otherwise be necessary at the time the loans are refinanced in a public securitization, generally one or two quarters later.  We had originally expected some of these higher costs to be incurred when the public securitizations were completed and the warehouse facility was renewed in subsequent quarters.
CAF income for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 was reduced by $20.0 million for adjustments primarily related to loans originated during prior fiscal years.  This amount includes the impact of the increase in the funding costs for $750 million of loans that were refinanced from our warehouse facility in a private securitization completed in May 2008.  It also includes the applicable incremental warehouse facility funding costs applied to the remaining $95 million of loans that were originated in previous fiscal years and that were still in the warehouse facility at the end of the first quarter.  This $20.0 million of higher funding costs exceeded the $14 million that we had built into our fiscal 2009 expectations due to a further increase in funding costs spreads in the securitization markets.
- more -
CarMax, Inc.
Page 3 of 10
 
 
 
In the first quarter of fiscal 2009, we made no material changes to our loss assumptions on previously securitized receivables.
.  Selling, general and administrative expenses were 11.0% of total revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 compared with 10.0% in the prior years first quarter.  The majority of this increase was expected, and it largely resulted from the combination of the modest level of comparable store used unit sales growth, our continued commitment to our store growth plan and the decline in the used vehicle average selling price.  In addition, in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 we accrued costs related to litigation that reduced net earnings by $0.02 per share.
SG&A
.  First quarter net earnings declined to $29.6 million, or $0.13 per share, from $65.4 million, or $0.30 per share, in fiscal 2008.  The decrease in earnings was primarily related to the reductions in gross profit per unit and CAF income, as well as the lower-than-expected sales, all of which we believe were the direct result of external conditions, said Folliard.  We are encouraged, however, by our continued ability to execute in our stores and to gain market share, regardless of the external environment.
Earnings and Earnings Per Share
. During the first quarter, we opened six used car superstores, entering the Phoenix, Arizona; Charleston, South Carolina; and Huntsville, Alabama, markets and expanding our presence in the San Antonio, Texas, and Sacramento, California, markets.  Despite the current weak economic conditions, we remain committed to executing our store growth plan for the long-term benefit of customers and shareholders, and we intend to open an additional eight used car superstores during the remainder of fiscal 2009.
Superstore Openings
 
We also expanded our car-buying center test with an opening in Dallas, Texas, in April and an opening in Baltimore, Maryland, shortly after the end of the first quarter.  We now have a total of five car-buying centers, at which we conduct appraisals and purchase, but do not sell, vehicles.  These centers represent a controlled concept test to determine whether we can achieve a meaningful increase in the percentage of vehicles sourced directly from consumers.  We will evaluate the performance of these five centers before deciding whether to open additional centers in future years.
Supplemental Financial Information
Sales Components
- more -
CarMax, Inc.
Page 4 of 10
 
 
Retail Vehicle Sales Changes
Retail Vehicle Sales Mix
Unit Sales
Average Selling Prices
- more -
CarMax, Inc.
Page 5 of 10
 
Selected Operating Ratios
Calculated as the ratio of the applicable amount to net sales and operating revenues.
(1)  
Operating profit equals earnings before interest and income taxes.
(2)  
Gross Profit
CAF Income
Earnings Highlights
- more -
CarMax, Inc.
Page 6 of 10
 
 
Fiscal 2009 Expectations
Our first quarter sales were modestly and earnings were disappointing, said Folliard.  Sales slowed through the quarter, and since Memorial Day weekend, traffic and sales weakened further.  If the current trends persist, results for the full year could be significantly below the bottom of our original earnings guidance range.  As a result of the combination of the uncertain economic conditions, rising fuel and food costs and weak consumer sentiment, exacerbated by the rapid depreciation in SUVs and trucks, we are temporarily suspending guidance on comparable store sales and earnings for fiscal 2009.  We hope to provide updated guidance later in the year, when there is a more stable outlook for the economy and we have better visibility on trends.
below expectations
While this is clearly a difficult environment for many big-ticket retailers, we remain confident in our differentiated business model, our ability to consistently gain market share, and our ability to satisfy customers, all of which support our continued store growth plan, said Folliard.
Conference Call Information
We will host a conference call for investors at 9:00 a.m. ET today, June 18, 2008.  Domestic investors may access the call at 1-888-298-3261 (international callers dial 1-706-679-7457).  The conference I.D. for both domestic and international callers is 26912950.  A live webcast of the call will be available on our investor information home page at investor.carmax.com and at www.streetevents.com.
A webcast replay of the call will be available at investor.carmax.com beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m. ET on June 18, 2008, through September 19, 2008.  A telephone replay also will be available through June 25, 2008, and may be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687 (international callers dial 1-706-645-9291).  The conference I.D. for both domestic and international callers is 26912950.
Second Quarter Fiscal 2009 Earnings Release Date
We currently plan to release second quarter sales and earnings results on Friday, September 19, 2008, before the opening of the New York Stock Exchange.  We will host a conference call for investors at 9:00 a.m. ET on that date.  Information on this conference call will be available on our investor information home page at investor.carmax.com in early September.
About CarMax
CarMax, a company, and one of the 2008 100 Best Companies to Work For, is the nations largest retailer of used cars.  Headquartered in Richmond, Va., we currently operate 97 used car superstores in 45 markets.  The CarMax consumer offer is structured around four core equities: low, no-haggle prices; a broad selection; high quality vehicles; and customer-friendly service.  During the fiscal year ended February 29, 2008, we retailed 377,244 used vehicles and sold 222,406 wholesale vehicles at our in-store auctions.  For more information, access the CarMax website at www.carmax.com.
Fortune
500
Fortune
- more -
CarMax, Inc.
Page 7 of 10
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
We caution readers that the statements contained in this release about our future business plans, operations, opportunities or prospects, including without limitation any statements or factors regarding expected sales, margins or earnings, are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Such forward-looking statements are based upon managements current knowledge and assumptions about future events and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results.  Among the factors that could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements are the following:
For more details on factors that could affect expectations, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 29, 2008, and our quarterly or current reports as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Our filings are publicly available on our investor information home page at investor.carmax.com.  Requests for information may also be made to the Investor Relations Department by email to investor_relations@carmax.com or by calling 1-804-747-0422 ext. 4489.  We disclaim any intent or obligation to update our forward-looking statements.
:
Contacts
Investors and Financial Media:
Katharine Kenny, Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations, (804) 935-4591
Celeste Gunter, Manager, Investor Relations, (804) 935-4597
General Media:
Lisa Van Riper, Assistant Vice President, Public Affairs, (804) 935-4594
Trina Lee, Director, Public Relations (804) 747-0422, ext. 4197
- more -
CarMax, Inc.
Page 8 of 10
 
- more -
CarMax, Inc.
Page 9 of 10
- more - -
CarMax, Inc.
Page 10 of 10


