FILE:KMX/KMX-8K-20081023161338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
                 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
i
 
 
 
ii 
 
 
             Meetings of shareholders shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation or at such place, either within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia, and at such time as may be provided in the notice of the meeting and approved by the Board of Directors.
1.1
Place and Time of Meetings.
 
           The Chairman or, in the Chairman's absence, the President shall serve as chairman at all meetings of the shareholders.  In the absence of both of the foregoing persons or if both of them decline to serve, a majority of the shares entitled to vote at a meeting may appoint any person entitled to vote at the meeting to act as chairman.  The Secretary or, in the Secretary's absence, an Assistant Secretary shall act as secretary at all meetings of the shareholders.  In the event that neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present, the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
1.2
Organization and Order of Business.  
 
The Chairman shall have the authority to make such rules and regulations, to establish such procedures and to take such steps as he or she may deem necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of each meeting of the shareholders, including, without limitation, the authority to make the agenda and to establish procedures for (i) dismissing of business not properly presented, (ii) maintaining of order and safety, (iii) placing limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, (iv) placing restrictions on attendance at a meeting by persons or classes of persons who are not shareholders or their proxies, (v) restricting entry to a meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and (vi) commencing, conducting and closing voting on any matter.
 
Any business which might properly have been conducted on an original meeting date may come before an adjourned meeting when reconvened.
 
             The annual meeting of shareholders shall be held in the month of June of each year on such day and convening at such time as shall be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.  If such day is a legal holiday, then the annual meeting of shareholders shall be held on the next succeeding business day.  Alternatively, the annual meeting may be held on such other day as may be provided in the notice of the meeting and approved by the Board of Directors.
1.3
Annual Meeting.
At each annual meeting of shareholders, only such business shall be conducted as is proper to consider and has been brought before the meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by a shareholder who is a shareholder of record of a class of shares entitled to vote on the business such shareholder is proposing and who is such a shareholder of record, both at the time of the giving of the shareholder's notice hereinafter described in this Section 1.3 and
 
 
 
on the record date for such annual meeting, and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.3; provided that the nomination and the election of directors is exclusively governed by Section 2.3.
In order to bring before an annual meeting of shareholders any business which may properly be considered and which a shareholder has not sought to have included in the Corporation's proxy statement for the meeting, a shareholder who meets the requirements set forth in the preceding paragraph must give the Corporation timely written notice.  To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be given, either by personal delivery to the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary at the principal office of the Corporation or by first class United States mail, with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the Secretary at the principal office of the Corporation.  Any such notice must be received (i) on or after February 1st and before March 1st of the year in which the meeting will be held, or (ii) not less than 90 days before the date of the meeting if the date of such meeting, as prescribed in these bylaws, has been changed by more than 30 days. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholders notice as described above.
Each such shareholder's notice shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting the following information, correct and complete as of the date of the notice: (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting, including the complete text of any resolutions to be presented at the annual meeting, and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting; (ii) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made: (a) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporations stock transfer books, of such shareholder proposing such business; (b) the name and address of such beneficial owner, if any; (c) a representation that the shareholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at such meeting to bring the business before the meeting specified in the notice; (d) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholder and by such beneficial owner, if any; and (e) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of the shareholder's notice by, or on behalf of, the shareholder or any of its affiliates or associates, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risks or benefits of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, the shareholder or any of its affiliates or associates with respect to shares of stock of the Corporation, and a representation that the shareholder will notify the Corporation in writing of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding in effect as of the record date for the annual meeting promptly following the later of the record date or the date notice of the record date is first publicly disclosed; (iii) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between the shareholder and beneficial owner, if any, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by the shareholder; (iv) any other information relating to the shareholder and beneficial owner, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for the proposal pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (v) any material interest of the shareholder or the beneficial owner, if any, in such business. The information in the shareholder notice shall be updated with information
 
2
 
current as of the record date by the shareholder and beneficial owner, if any, not later than ten days after the record date of the applicable meeting.
The Secretary or Assistant Secretary shall deliver each shareholder's notice that has been timely received to the Chairman for review.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.3, a shareholder seeking to have a proposal included in the Corporation's proxy statement for an annual meeting of shareholders (other than the nomination of a director, which is exclusively governed by Section 2.3) shall comply with the requirements, including but not limited to the notice requirements, of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or with any successor regulation.
Notwithstanding anything in the Bylaws to the contrary, with the exception of Section 2.3, no business shall be conducted at an annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.3. The chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine that the business was not brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures prescribed by this Section 1.3 and declare such determination to the meeting.  Business not properly brought before the annual meeting shall not be transacted.
             Special meetings of the shareholders may be called only by the Chairman, the President or the Board of Directors.  Only business within the purpose or purposes described in the notice for a special meeting of shareholders may be conducted at the meeting.
1.4
Special Meetings.
             The Board of Directors shall fix, in advance, a record date to make a determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or to receive any dividend or for any purpose, such date to be not more than 70 days before the meeting or action requiring a determination of shareholders.
1.5
Record Dates.
When a determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders has been made, such determination shall be effective for any adjournment of the meeting unless the Board of Directors fixes a new record date, which it shall do if the meeting is adjourned to a date more than 120 days after the date fixed for the original meeting.
             Written notice stating the place, day and hour of each meeting of shareholders and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be given by mail not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting (except when a different time is required in these Bylaws or by law) to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting.  Such notice shall be deemed to be effective when deposited in first class United States mail with postage thereon prepaid and addressed to the shareholder at his or her address as it appears on the share transfer books of the Corporation.
1.6
Notice of Meetings.
Notice of a shareholder's meeting to act on (i) an amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, (ii) a plan of merger or share exchange, (iii) the sale, lease, exchange or other disposition of all or substantially all the property of the Corporation otherwise than in the usual and regular course of business or (iv) the dissolution of the Corporation, shall be given, in the manner provided above, not less than 25 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting.  Any notice given pursuant
 
3
 
to this section shall state that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is to consider such action and shall be accompanied by (x) a copy of the proposed amendment, (y) a copy of the proposed plan of merger or share exchange or (z) a summary of the agreement pursuant to which the proposed transaction will be effected.  If only a summary of the agreement is sent to the shareholders, the Corporation shall also send a copy of the agreement to any shareholder who requests it.
If a meeting is adjourned to a different date, time or place, notice need not be given if the new date, time or place is announced at the meeting before adjournment.  However, if a new record date for an adjourned meeting is fixed, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to shareholders as of the new record date unless a court provides otherwise.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no notice of a meeting of shareholders need be given to a shareholder if (i) an annual report and proxy statements for two consecutive annual meetings of shareholders or (ii) all, and at least two, checks in payment of dividends or interest on securities during a 12-month period, have been sent by first-class United States mail, with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the shareholder at his or her address as it appears on the share transfer books of the Corporation, and returned undeliverable.  The obligation of the Corporation to give notice of meetings of shareholders to any such shareholder shall be reinstated once the Corporation has received a new address for such shareholder for entry on its share transfer books.
             A shareholder may waive any notice required by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws before or after the date and time of the meeting that is the subject of such notice.  The waiver shall be in writing, be signed by the shareholder entitled to the notice and be delivered to the Secretary for inclusion in the minutes or filing with the corporate records.
1.7
Waiver of Notice; Attendance at Meeting.
A shareholder's attendance at a meeting (i) waives objection to lack of notice or defective notice of the meeting unless the shareholder, at the beginning of the meeting, objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and (ii) waives objection to consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose or purposes described in the meeting notice unless the shareholder objects to considering the matter when it is presented.
             Unless otherwise required by law, a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on a matter constitutes a quorum for action on that matter.  Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is or shall be set for that adjourned meeting.  If a quorum exists, action on a matter, other than the election of directors, is approved if the votes cast favoring the action exceed the votes cast opposing the action unless a greater number of affirmative votes is required by law.  Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the shares entitled to vote in the election at a meeting at which a quorum is present. The Chairman of meeting or a majority of the shares represented at the meeting may adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is a quorum.
1.8
Quorum and Voting Requirements.
 
4
 
             A shareholder may vote his or her shares in person or by proxy.  A shareholder may appoint a proxy to vote or otherwise act for such shareholder by signing an appointment form, either personally or by his or her attorney-in-fact.  An appointment of a proxy is effective when received by the Secretary or other officer or agent authorized to tabulate votes and is valid for eleven (11) months unless a longer period is expressly provided in the appointment form.  An appointment of a proxy is revocable by the shareholder unless the appointment form conspicuously states that it is irrevocable and the appointment is coupled with an interest.
1.9
Proxies.
The death or incapacity of the shareholder appointing a proxy does not affect the right of the Corporation to accept the proxy's authority unless notice of the death or incapacity is received by the Secretary or other officer or agent authorized to tabulate votes before the proxy exercises his or her authority under the appointment.  An irrevocable appointment is revoked when the interest with which it is coupled is extinguished.  A transferee for value of shares subject to an irrevocable appointment may revoke the appointment if the transferee did not know of its existence when the shares were acquired and the existence of the irrevocable appointment was not noted conspicuously on the certificate representing the shares or on the information statement for shares without certificates.  Subject to any legal limitations on the right of the Corporation to accept the vote or other action of a proxy and to any express limitation on the proxy's authority appearing on the face of the appointment form, the Corporation is entitled to accept the proxy's vote or other action as that of the shareholder making the appointment.  Any fiduciary who is entitled to vote any shares may vote such shares by proxy.
           The officer or agent having charge of the share transfer books of the Corporation shall make, at least ten days before each meeting of shareholders, a complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting or any adjournment thereof, with the address of and the number of shares held by each.  For a period of ten days prior to the meeting, such list shall be kept on file at the registered office of the Corporation or at its principal office or at the office of its transfer agent or registrar and shall be subject to inspection by any shareholder at any time during usual business hours.  Such list shall also be produced and kept open at the time and place of the meeting and shall be subject to the inspection of any shareholder during the whole time of the meeting for the purpose thereof.  The original share transfer books shall be prima facie evidence as to which shareholders are entitled to examine such list or transfer books or to vote at any meeting of the shareholders.  The right of a shareholder to inspect such list prior to the meeting shall be subject to the conditions and limitations set forth by law.  If the requirements of this section have not been substantially complied with, the meeting shall, on the demand of any shareholder in person or by proxy, be adjourned until such requirements are met.  Refusal or failure to prepare or make available the shareholders' list does not affect the validity of action taken at the meeting prior to the making of any such demand, but any action taken by the shareholders after the making of any such demand shall be invalid and of no effect.
1.10
Voting List.
             The Corporation shall have a Board of Directors.  All corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the authority of, and the business and affairs of the Corporation managed under the direction of, its Board of Directors, and such officers and agents as the Board of Directors may elect to employ, subject to any limitation set forth in the Articles of Incorporation.
2.1
General Powers.
 
 
5
 
             The number of directors shall be thirteen (13).  This number may be increased or decreased from time to time by amendment to these Bylaws to the extent permitted by law and by the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation.  Except as provided in Section 2.5, directors shall be elected for terms of up to three (3) years in the manner set forth in the Articles of Incorporation and shall serve until the election of their successors.  No decrease in the number of directors shall have the effect of changing the term of any incumbent director.  Unless a director resigns or is removed by the majority vote of the shareholders, every director shall hold office for the term elected or until a successor to such director shall have been elected.
2.2
Number and Term.
             Nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board of Directors or by any shareholder entitled to vote in the election of directors generally.  However, any such shareholder may nominate one or more persons for election as directors at a meeting only if written notice of such shareholder's intent to make such nomination or nominations has been given, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Corporation not later than (i) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of shareholders 120 days in advance of such meeting or (ii) with respect to a special meeting of shareholders for the election of directors, the close of business on the seventh day following the date on which notice of such meeting is first given to shareholders. No person shall be eligible for election as a director unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.3. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholders notice as described above.
2.3
Nomination of Directors.
Each such shareholders notice shall set forth the following information, correct and complete as of the date of the notice: (a) as to the shareholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made: (i) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporations stock transfer books, of such shareholder; (ii) the name and address of such beneficial owner, if any; (iii) a representation that the shareholder and intends to appear in person or by proxy at such meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (iv) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholder and by such beneficial owner, if any; and (v) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of the shareholder's notice by, or on behalf of, the shareholder or any of its affiliates or associates, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risks or benefits of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, the shareholder or any of its affiliates or associates with respect to shares of stock of the Corporation, and a representation that the shareholder will notify the Corporation in writing of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding in effect as of the record date for the meeting promptly following the later of the record date or the date notice of the record date is first publicly disclosed; (b) as to each person, if any, whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection to the Board of Directors: (i) the name, age, business address and, if known, residence address of such person; (ii) the principal occupation or employment of such person; (iii) the class and number of shares
 
6
 
of stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such person; (iv) all information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (including such persons written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and (v) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among such shareholder and beneficial owner, if any, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the shareholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the registrant for purposes of such rule and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant; (c) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between the shareholder and beneficial owner, if any, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the nomination by the shareholder; (d) any other information relating to the shareholder and beneficial owner, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (e) any material interest of the shareholder or the beneficial owner, if any, in such nomination. The information in the shareholder notice shall be updated with information current as of the record date by the shareholder and beneficial owner, if any, not later than ten days after the record date of the applicable meeting.
Any proposed nominee shall promptly furnish to the Corporation such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable shareholders understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee.
In addition to the provisions of this Section 2.3, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 2.3. Nothing in this Section 2.3 shall be construed to require that the Corporation include any nomination on the proxy card disseminated by the Corporation with respect to any meeting or in any proxy statement filed in connection therewith. For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 2.3 shall apply to all director nominations intended to be brought before a shareholder meeting irrespective of whether any such nomination is intended to be included in the Corporations proxy statement, a competing proxy solicitation, or otherwise.
The Secretary of the Corporation shall deliver each such shareholders notice containing the information required by this Section 2.3 that has been timely received to the Board of Directors or a committee designated by the Board of Directors for review. Any person nominated for election as director by the Board of Directors or any committee designated by the Board of
 
7
 
Directors shall, upon the request of the Board of Directors or such committee, furnish to the Secretary of the Corporation all such information pertaining to such person that is required to be set forth in a shareholders notice of nomination. The chairman of the meeting of shareholders shall, if the facts warrant, determine that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by this Section 2.3 and declare such determination to the meeting.  The defective nomination shall be disregarded.
             Except as provided in Section 2.5, the directors shall be elected by the holders of the common shares at each annual meeting of shareholders or at a special meeting called for such purpose.  Those persons who receive the greatest number of votes shall be deemed elected even though they do not receive a majority of the votes cast.  No individual shall be named or elected as a director without such individual's prior consent.
2.4
Election.
             The shareholders may remove one or more directors with or without cause.  If a director is elected by a voting group, only the shareholders of that voting group may elect to remove the director.  Unless the Articles of Incorporation require a greater vote, a director may be removed if the number of votes cast to remove the director constitutes a majority of the votes entitled to be cast at an election of directors of the voting group or voting groups by which such director was elected.  A director may be removed by the shareholders only at a meeting called for the purpose of removing such director and the meeting notice must state that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is removal of the director.
2.5
Removal; Vacancies.
A vacancy on the Board of Directors, including a vacancy resulting from the removal of a director or an increase in the number of directors, may be filled by (i) the shareholders, (ii) the Board of Directors or (iii) the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors and may, in the case of a resignation that will become effective at a specified later date, be filled before the vacancy occurs but the new director may not take office until the vacancy occurs.  Any director elected by the Board of Directors shall serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders or until the election of a successor to such director.
           .  An annual meeting of the Board of Directors, which shall be considered a regular meeting, shall be held immediately following each annual meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing officers and carrying on such other business as may properly come before the meeting.  The Board of Directors may also adopt a schedule of additional meetings which shall be considered regular meetings.  Regular meetings shall be held at such times and at such places, within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia, as the Chairman, the President or the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time.  If no place is designated, regular meetings shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation.
2.6
Annual and Regular Meetings.
             Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the President, the Board of Directors or any two Directors of the Corporation and shall be held at such times and at such places, within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia, as the person or persons calling the meetings shall designate.  If no such place is designated in the notice of a meeting, it shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation.
2.7
Special Meetings.
 
8
 
             No notice need be given of regular meetings of the Board of Directors.
2.8
Notice of Meetings.
Notices of special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be given to each director in person or delivered to his or her residence or business address (or such other place as the director may have directed in writing) not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the meeting by mail, email, messenger, telecopy, telegraph or other means of written communication or by telephoning such notice to the director.  Any such notice shall set forth the time and place of the meeting.
             A director may waive any notice required by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws before or after the date and time stated in the notice and such waiver shall be equivalent to the giving of such notice.  Except as provided in the next paragraph of this section, the waiver shall be in writing, signed by the director entitled to the notice and filed with the minutes or corporate records.
2.9
Waiver of Notice; Attendance at Meeting.
A director's attendance at or participation in a meeting waives any required notice to such director of the meeting unless the director, at the beginning of the meeting or promptly upon arrival, objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and does not thereafter vote for or assent to action taken at the meeting.
           A majority of the number of directors fixed in these Bylaws shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at a meeting of the Board of Directors.  If a quorum is present when a vote is taken, the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present is the act of the Board of Directors.  A director who is present at a meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board of Directors when corporate action is taken is deemed to have assented to the action taken unless (i) the director objects, at the beginning of the meeting or promptly upon arrival, to holding it or transacting specified business at the meeting or (ii) the director votes against or abstains from the action taken.
2.10
Quorum; Voting.
           The Board of Directors may permit any or all directors to participate in a regular or special meeting by, or conduct the meeting through the use of, any means of communication by which all directors participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting.  A director participating in a meeting by this means is deemed to be present in person at the meeting.
2.11
Telephonic Meetings.
           Action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if the action is taken by all members of the Board.  The action shall be evidenced by one or more written consents stating the action taken, signed by each director either before or after the action is taken and included in the minutes or filed with the corporate records.  Action taken under this section shall be effective when the last director signs the consent unless the consent specifies a different effective date in which event the action taken is effective as of the date specified therein provided the consent states the date of execution by each director.
2.12
Action Without Meeting.
           Directors shall not receive a stated salary for their services, but directors may be paid a fixed sum and expenses for attendance at any regular or special meeting of the
2.13
Compensation.
 
9
 
Board of Directors or any meeting of any Committee and such other compensation as the Board of Directors shall determine.  A director may serve or be employed by the Corporation in any other capacity and receive compensation thereafter.
           The Chairman of the Board, if one is designated by the Board of Directors, shall preside at all meetings of the Board and of shareholders and perform such other duties as the Board shall assign from time to time.  The Vice Chairman of the Board, if one is designated by the Board of Directors, shall, at the request of or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, preside at meetings of the Board and of shareholders and, when requested to do so by the Board, shall perform all of the functions of the Chairman of the Board during the absence or incapacity of the latter.
2.14
Chairman and Vice Chairman.
             The Board of Directors may create one or more committees and appoint members of the Board of Directors to serve on them.  Unless otherwise provided in these Bylaws, each committee shall have two or more members who serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  The creation of a committee and appointment of members to it shall be approved by a majority of all of the directors in office when the action is taken.
3.1
Committees.
             To the extent specified by the Board of Directors, each committee may exercise the authority of the Board of Directors, except that a committee may not (i) approve or recommend to shareholders action that is required by law to be approved by shareholders, (ii) fill vacancies on the Board of Directors or on any of its committees, (iii) amend the Articles of Incorporation, (iv) adopt, amend, or repeal these Bylaws, (v) approve a plan of merger not requiring shareholder approval, (vi) authorize or approve a distribution, except according to a general formula or method prescribed by the Board of Directors or (vii) authorize or approve the issuance or sale or contract for sale of shares, or determine the designation and relative rights, preferences, and limitations of a class or series of shares, except that the Board of Directors may authorize a committee, or a senior executive officer of the Corporation, to do so within limits specifically prescribed by the Board of Directors.
3.2
Authority of Committees.
            The Board of Directors may appoint an Executive Committee consisting of the management members of the Board.  Subject to any limitation provided by law, in the Companys Bylaws, or in any resolution of the Board of Directors, and with respect to subparts (i) through (vii) herein, further subject to the limits of the Companys current capital expenditure budget and/or strategic plan, as applicable, the Committee shall have the authority of the Board of Directors to approve the following matters: (i) the purchase, development and sale of real estate, (ii) the formation and incorporation of domestic operating subsidiaries of the Company having initial capitalizations not to exceed US$10,000,000 per subsidiary, (iii) the dissolution, merger, liquidation or unwinding of any domestic operating subsidiary of the Company, (iv) the acquisition and sale of car dealer franchises, (v) loan agreements, securitizations and other financing activities, (vi) the administration, modification and amendment of the Companys employee benefit plans that are subject to the fiduciary provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), but only to the extent such
3.3
Executive Committee.
 
10
 
administration, modification or amendment does not require shareholder approval or materially impact the Companys financial results, (vii) the investment policy for the Companys retirement plans subject to ERISA, (viii) the appointment and removal of the trustees for the Companys retirement plans subject to ERISA; (ix) other matters occurring in the ordinary course of the Companys business, and  (x) matters occurring other than in the ordinary course of  business, if, in the judgment of the Chair of the Committee with the concurrence of either the Chairman of the Board or the chair of any other standing committee of the Board, exigent circumstances exist which make it impracticable of impossible to convene a meeting of the Board of Directors.  The Committee may form and delegate authority to a subcommittee consisting of two or more members.  A subcommittee shall report any action to the full Committee at its next meeting.  Subject to the approval of the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee shall adopt and from time to time assess and revise a written charter which will specify how the Committee will carry out its responsibilities and such other matters as the Board determines are necessary and desirable.
             The Board of Directors shall appoint each year an Audit Committee, which shall be composed of at least three members of the Board, all of whom shall be independent directors (as defined in Section 6.1).  In addition, the members of the Committee shall satisfy the requirements for audit committee membership imposed by the New York Stock Exchange on audit committees of listed public companies and any eligibility requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission with regard to companies whose securities are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Audit Committee shall assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its responsibility relating to the corporate accounting and reporting practices of the Corporation. Subject to the approval of the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee shall adopt and from time to time assess and revise a written charter which will specify how the Committee will carry out its responsibilities and such other matters as the Board and the Audit Committee determine are necessary or desirable.
3.4
Audit Committee.
             The Board of Directors shall appoint each year a Nominating and Governance Committee, which shall be composed of at least two members of the Board, all of whom shall be independent directors (as defined in Section 6.1).  The functions of this Committee shall include the following:
3.5
Nominating and Governance Committee.
 
11
 
Subject to the approval of the Board of Directors, the Nominating and Governance Committee shall adopt and from time to time assess and revise a written charter which will specify how the Committee will carry out its responsibilities and such other matters as the Board and the Nominating and Governance Committee determine are necessary or desirable.
             The Board of Directors shall appoint each year a Compensation and Personnel Committee, which shall be composed of at least three members of the Board, all of whom shall be independent directors (as defined in Section 6.1), and which shall have the following duties:
3.6
Compensation and Personnel Committee.
 
12
 
Subject to the approval of the Board of Directors, the Compensation and Personnel Committee shall adopt and from time to time assess and revise a written charter which will specify how the Committee will carry out its responsibilities and such other matters as the Board and the Compensation and Personnel Committee determine are necessary or desirable.
             The provisions of these Bylaws which govern meetings, action without meetings, notice and waiver of notice, and quorum and voting requirements of the Board of Directors shall apply to committees of directors and their members as well.
3.7
Committee Meetings; Miscellaneous.
             The officers of the Corporation shall be a President, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer, and, in the discretion of the Board of Directors or the President, one or more Vice-Presidents and such other officers as may be deemed necessary or advisable to carry on the business of the Corporation.  Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
4.1
Officers.
             Officers shall be elected by the Board of Directors.  The President may, from time to time, appoint other officers.  Officers elected by the Board of Directors shall hold office, unless sooner removed, until the next annual meeting of the Board of Directors or until their successors are elected.  Officers appointed by the President shall hold office, unless sooner removed, until their successors are appointed.  The action of the President in appointing officers shall be reported to the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors after it is taken.  Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board of Directors or the President and such resignation shall be effective when notice is delivered unless the notice specifies a later effective date.
4.2
Election; Term.
             The Board of Directors may remove any officer at any time, with or without cause.  The President may remove any officer appointed by the President at any time, with or without cause.  Such action shall be reported to the next regular meeting of the Board of Directors after it is taken.
4.3
Removal of Officers.
             The President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and a member of the Board of Directors.  The President, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Vice Chairman of the Board, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and shareholders, shall have power to call special meetings of the shareholders and directors for any purpose; may hire, appoint and discharge employees and agents of the Corporation and fix their compensation; may make and sign deeds, mortgages, deeds of trust, notes, leases, powers of attorney, contracts and agreements in the name and on behalf of the Corporation; shall have power to carry into effect all directions of the Board of Directors; and shall have general supervision of the business of the Corporation, except as may be limited by the Board of Directors, the Articles of Incorporation, or these bylaws.
4.4
Duties of the President.
 
13
 
             Such Vice Presidents, in the order designated by the Board of Directors from time to time, shall exercise all of the functions of the President during the absence or incapacity of the latter and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors or the President.
4.5
Duties of the Vice President.
             The Secretary shall be the ex-officio clerk of the Board of Directors and shall give, or cause to be given, notices of all meetings of shareholders and directors, and all other notices required by law or by these Bylaws.  The Secretary shall record the proceedings of the meetings of the shareholders, Board of Directors and committees of the Board of Directors in books kept for that purpose and shall keep the seal of the Corporation and attach it to all documents requiring such impression unless some other officer is designated to do so by the Board of Directors.  The Secretary shall also perform such other duties as may be assigned by the Board of Directors or the President.
4.6
Duties of the Secretary.
             The Chief Financial Officer shall keep or cause to be kept full and accurate books of account, and may make and sign deeds, mortgages, deeds of trust, notes, leases, contracts and agreements in the name and on behalf of the Corporation.  Whenever required by the Board of Directors or the President, the Chief Financial Officer shall render a financial statement showing all transactions of the Corporation and the financial condition of the Corporation.
4.7
Duties of the Chief Financial Officer.
             There may be one or more Assistant Secretaries who shall exercise all of the functions of the Secretary during the absence or incapacity of the latter and such other duties as may be assigned from time to time by the Board of Directors or the President.
4.8
Duties of the Assistant Secretary.
             The other officers of the Corporation, which may include Assistant Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, Assistant Treasurers, a Controller or Assistant Controllers, shall have such authority and perform such duties as shall be prescribed by the Board of Directors or by officers authorized by the Board of Directors to appoint them to their respective offices.  To the extent that such duties are not so stated, such officers shall have such authority and perform the duties which generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the control of the President or the Board of Directors.
4.9
Duties of Other Officers.
           Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, each of the President and the Chief Financial Officer, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, may appoint from time to time himself or herself or any other person (or persons) proxy, attorney or agent for the Corporation to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as a shareholder, member or otherwise in any other corporation, partnership or other legal entity, domestic or foreign, whose stock, interests or other securities are held by the Corporation, or to consent in writing to any action by such other entity, or to exercise any or all other powers of this Corporation as the holder of the stock, interests or other securities of such other entity.  Each of the President and the Chief Financial Officer may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent and may execute or cause to be executed on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal such written proxies, consents, waivers, or other instruments as may be deemed necessary or proper.  Each of the President and the Chief Financial Officer may attend any meeting of the
4.10
Voting Securities of Other Corporations.
 
14
 
holders of stock, interests or other securities of any such other entity and vote or exercise any or all other powers of this Corporation as the holder of the stock, interest or other securities of such other entity.
            The compensation of all officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors or the Compensation and Personnel Committee.
4.11
Compensation.
           The Board of Directors may require that any or all officers, employees and agents of the Corporation give bond to the Corporation, with sufficient sureties, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of their respective offices or positions.
4.12
Bonds.
             Shares of the Corporation shall, when fully paid, be evidenced by certificates containing such information as is required by law and approved by the Board of Directors.  Alternatively, the Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of some or all shares without certificates.  In such event, within a reasonable time after issuance, the Corporation shall mail to the shareholder a written confirmation of its records with respect to such shares containing the information required by law.  When issued, certificates shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President or a Vice President designated by the Board and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and may (but need not) be sealed with the seal of the Corporation.  The seal of the Corporation and any or all of the signatures on a share certificate may be facsimile.  If any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such individual were such officer, transfer agent or registrar on the date of issue.
5.1
Form.
             The Board of Directors may make rules and regulations concerning the issue, registration and transfer of shares and/or certificates representing the shares of the Corporation.  Transfers of shares and/or of the certificates representing such shares shall be made upon the books of the Corporation by surrender of the certificates representing such shares, if any, accompanied by written assignments given by the record owners thereof or their attorneys-in-fact.
5.2
Transfer.
             A lawful restriction on the transfer or registration of transfer of shares is valid and enforceable against the holder or a transferee of the holder if the restriction complies with the requirements of law and its existence is noted conspicuously on the front or back of any certificate representing the shares or has been otherwise communicated in accordance with the requirements of law.  Unless so noted or communicated, a restriction is not enforceable against a person without knowledge of the restriction.
5.3
Restrictions on Transfer.
             The Corporation may issue a new share certificate or a written confirmation of its records with respect to shares in the place of any certificate theretofore issued which is alleged to have been lost or destroyed and may require the owner of such certificate, or such owner's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond,
5.4
Lost or Destroyed Share Certificates.
 
15
 
with or without surety, or such other agreement, undertaking or security as the Board of Directors shall determine is appropriate, to indemnify the Corporation against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss or destruction or the issuance of any such new certificate.
             The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of  stock as the owner thereof and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person.  The Corporation shall not be liable for registering any transfer of shares which are registered in the name of a fiduciary unless done with actual knowledge of facts which would cause the Corporation's action in registering the transfer to amount to bad faith.
5.5
Registered Shareholders.
             As used in these Bylaws, the term "independent" has the following meaning:  A director is considered to be independent if the individual meets all independence criteria set forth in Section 303A.02 of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual, as amended from time to time, and the Board of Directors has affirmatively determined that such individual has no material relationship with the Company (either directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organization that has a relationship with the Company).
6.1
Certain Definitions.
             The corporate seal of the Corporation shall be circular and shall have inscribed thereon, within and around the circumference, the name of the Corporation.  In the center shall be the word "SEAL".
6.2
Corporate Seal.
             The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of March of each year and end on the last day of February in the next succeeding year.
6.3
Fiscal Year.
             The power to alter, amend or repeal the Bylaws or adopt new bylaws shall be vested in the Board of Directors unless otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation.  Bylaws adopted by the Board of Directors may be repealed or changed or new bylaws adopted by the shareholders, and the shareholders may prescribe that any bylaw adopted by them may not be altered, amended or repealed by the Board of Directors.
6.4
Amendments.
             Any matters not specifically covered by these Bylaws shall be governed by the applicable provisions of the Code of Virginia in force at the time.
6.5
General.
16

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
, CarMax, Inc. (the Company) maintains the CarMax, Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan (the Plan) for the benefit of a select group of its management employees;
WHEREAS
 
, pursuant to Plan Section 6.1, the Company has the authority to amend the Plan at any time;
WHEREAS
 
, the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board) has authorized the amendment of the Plan to freeze participation and benefit accruals effective December 31, 2008; and
WHEREAS
 
, the Board has authorized and directed the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer of the Company to implement changes to the Plan to freeze participation and benefit accruals effective December 31, 2008.
WHEREAS
 
, that the Plan is amended, effective January 1, 2009, as follows:
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
I.           The Introduction is amended to replace the last sentence of the first paragraph to read as follows:
This amendment and restatement is effective January 1, 2009, and reflects the amendment effective December 31, 2008, to cease additional benefit accruals of all Plan Participants effective as of December 31, 2008, and to limit participation in the Plan to those individuals who were Plan Participants as of December 31, 2008.
II.           Plan section 1.3(d) is amended to add the following sentence to the end thereof:
The Effective Date of this amendment and restatement is January 1, 2009.
 
 
 
III.           Plan sections 2.1 and 2.2 are amended to add the following sentence to the end of each:
Effective January 1, 2009, no individual can become a Participant who was not already a Participant on December 31, 2008.
IV.           Plan section 3.1 is amended to add the following new subjection (d):
(d)           Effective January 1, 2009, no years of Benefit Service after December 31, 2008, will be counted under the Plan for purposes of accruing a Supplemental Benefit.  Participants who are employed on December 31, 2008, and who continue to be employed after such date shall earn additional years of Benefit Service under this Plan section solely for purposes of eligibility to receive the Supplemental Benefit earned by such Participant as of December 31, 2008.  Such additional years of Benefit Service shall be determined in the same manner as additional years of Vesting Service (as defined in the Pension Plan) credited to such Participant under the Pension Plan after December 31, 2008.
V. Plan Article III is amended to add the following new subsection to the end thereof:
   
 
3.6 
   
.  Pursuant to the amendments made to the Pension Plan, no additional imputed Benefit Service shall be credited pursuant to Plan section 3.5 after December 31, 2008.
Freezing Benefit Service
 
 
 
 
 
To record the adoption, the Company has caused this Amendment to be signed on the 21  day of October, 2008.
st
CARMAX, INC.
                                                                           
/s/ Keith D. Browning
Keith D. Browning
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CarMax, Inc., Retirement Restoration Plan is adopted effective January 1, 2009.  The purpose of the Plan is to supplement the benefits payable for a select group of management or highly compensated employees of CarMax, Inc. and its affiliates to the extent that retirement contributions are limited under the CarMax, Inc., Retirement Savings Plan as a result of the application of sections 415 and 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  The Plan is also intended to provide supplemental savings to eligible employees through a program of salary reduction contributions (that are matched, in part, by employer contributions in accordance with the terms of the Plan).  The Company has determined that the adoption of the Retirement Restoration Plan will assist in attracting and retaining those employees whose abilities and experience will contribute to its continued success.
The Plan is intended to be a plan that is unfunded and maintained by the Company for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees as described in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.  The Plan also is intended to satisfy the requirements of Code section 409A.  All questions concerning the Plan should be interpreted in light of the Companys intention to conform to the applicable requirements of ERISA and Code section 409A.
 
1
 
Account means the account or bookkeeping record reflecting a Participants interest in the Plan.  A Participant may have several Accounts under the Plan, including a Salary Reduction Contribution Account, a Matching Contribution Account and a Retirement Restoration Contribution Account.  When the term Account is used without modification, it means the sum of all the Participants Plan Accounts.
Administrator means the committee appointed as Administrator by the Chief Financial Officer in accordance with Article V.
Beneficiary means the person or entity specified by a Participant by the method prescribed by the Administrator for that purpose.  If a Participant does not designate a Beneficiary or if the designated Beneficiary predeceased the Participant or is not in existence on the date of the Participants death, then Beneficiary means the Participants Surviving Spouse, or if there is no Surviving Spouse, the executor(s) or administrator(s) of the Participants estate.
Board means the Board of Directors of CarMax, Inc.
Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any subsequently enacted federal revenue law.  A reference to a particular section of the Code shall include a reference to any regulations issued under the section and to the corresponding section of any subsequently enacted federal revenue law.
Committee means the Compensation and Personnel Committee of the Board.
 
2
 
Company means CarMax, Inc., and all of its Related Companies, subsidiaries and divisions except for those Related Companies, subsidiaries and divisions whose employees or segments thereof have not been designated to be included in this Plan.  Where only a segment of a Related Companys, subsidiarys or divisions employees has been designated for coverage hereunder, Company applies to such Related Company, subsidiary or division only as it relates to such entitys employees eligible for coverage.
Compensation means Compensation, as defined under the Retirement Savings Plan, without regard to the subsections of the Retirement Saving Plan Compensation definition:
(a)           that relate to top-heavy rules and anti-discrimination rules; and
(b)           that impose the limits prescribed and adjusted by Code section 401(a)(17) and 415(d).
Eligible Employee means an Employee who is a member of a select group of management or highly compensated employees of the Company.
 
Employee means a person employed by the Company as a common law employee on the Companys U.S. payroll.  It is expressly intended that persons not employed as common law employees on the Companys U.S. payroll are to be excluded from participation in the Plan, even if a court or administrative agency determines that such individuals are common law employees.  The term Employee shall not include independent contractors or leased employees within the meaning of Code section 414(n)(2).
 
 
ERISA means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time and as construed, interpreted and modified by regulations or rulings.
 
Key Employee means a Participant who, as of December 31 of a calendar year, meets the requirements of Code section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii) applied in accordance with the regulations thereunder and disregarding Code section 416(i)(5).  A Participant who meets the criteria in the preceding sentence will be considered a Key Employee for purposes of the Plan for the 12-month period commencing on the next following April 1.
st
 
3
 
 
Matching Contribution means any unfunded matching contribution allocation made for the benefit of the Participant by the Company under Plan section 3.04.
 
 
Matching Contribution Account means the account or bookkeeping record reflecting the Matching Contributions made on behalf of a Participant.
 
Participant means an Eligible Employee who satisfies the requirements of Article II.
Plan means the CarMax, Inc. Retirement Restoration Plan.
Plan Compensation means the excess (if any) of (a) the Participants Compensation for the Plan Year over (b) the annual tax-qualified plan compensation limitation set forth under Code section 401(a)(17), as adjusted for that Plan Year.
Plan Year means the annual period beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31.
Related Company means any corporation which, when considered with the Company, would constitute a controlled group of corporations within the meaning of Code section 1563(a), determined without regard to Code sections 1563(a)(4) and 1563(e)(3)(C) or any entity, whether or not incorporated which, when considered with the Company, would constitute a controlled group in accordance with Code section 414(c) and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Retire means a Termination of Employment by a Participant at or after age 65, other than due to death.
Retirement Contribution means Retirement Contribution, as defined under the Retirement Savings Plan.
 
4
 
 
Retirement Restoration Contribution means the Companys unfunded contribution to a Participants Account as provided in Plan section 3.02.
 
Retirement Restoration Contribution means the account or bookkeeping record reflecting the Retirement Restoration Contributions made on behalf of a Participant.
 
Retirement Savings Plan means the CarMax, Inc., Retirement Savings Plan, as in effect on January 1, 2009, and as subsequently amended for the applicable time.
Salary Reduction Contribution means a Participants elective deferrals made at the election of the Participant pursuant to Plan section 2.03.
Salary Reduction Contribution Account means the account or bookkeeping record reflecting the Participants Salary Reduction Contributions.
 
Salary Reduction Election means the deferral election made by a Participant pursuant to Plan section 2.03.
Spouse or Surviving Spouse means the person to whom the Participant is legally married as determined under federal law and under the laws of the state of his domicile, on his death or on the date benefits are paid, whichever is earlier.
 
5
 
 
Termination of Employment means a Participants separation from service from the Company, whether an Employee Retires or through any other termination of employment, within the meaning of Code section 409A and Treasury Regulations thereunder.
Totally and Permanently Disabled means the Participant is (a) unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or (b) by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under a disability plan covering employees of the Company.
 
Valuation Date means any day that the New York Stock Exchange is open for business.
Year of Vesting Service means each Plan Year for which an Employee is entitled to a Year of Vesting Service in accordance with and subject to the rules set forth in the Retirement Savings Plan.
 
6
 
An individual shall become a Participant in the Plan as of the first day of the first Plan Year in which such individual is an Eligible Employee whose Compensation for such Plan Year exceeds the compensation dollar limit imposed under Code section 401(a)(17) (for example, $230,000 for calendar year 2008).
(a)           An Eligible Employee who wishes to make Salary Reduction Contributions under the Plan must submit a Salary Reduction Election to the Administrator in accordance with the procedures set forth in Plan section 2.03.
(b)           Each Eligible Employee and Participant must correctly disclose to the Administrator all requested information necessary for the administration of the Plan.
(c)           A Participant shall continue to be a Participant of the Plan until the date that he is no longer entitled to benefits under the Plan.
(a)           A Participant may elect to defer a percentage (in one percent (1%) increments) of his Plan Compensation under the Plan up to the maximum percentage announced by the Administrator each Plan Year.
Amount of Salary Reduction Contributions.  
(b)           Except as provided in Plan section 2.03(c), a Participant may make an election to defer Plan Compensation for a Plan Year only if such election is made no later than December 31 of the prior Plan Year, or by such earlier date as may be announced by the Administrator.  Such Salary Reduction Election shall remain in effect for the entire Plan Year and for all subsequent Plan Years until the Participant revokes such election or timely files a new Salary Reduction Election applicable to subsequent Plan Years.  Each Salary Reduction Election shall be made on a form provided by the Administrator and shall specify such additional information as the Administrator may require.
Elections.  
(c)           In the first Plan Year in which an Eligible Employee becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, the Eligible Employee must make an initial Salary Reduction Election within 30 days after he becomes eligible to participate in the Plan.  Such Salary Reduction Election shall only be valid with respect to Compensation paid for services rendered after the date of the initial deferral election.
First Year of Eligibility.  
 
7
 
The Administrator shall establish and maintain a Salary Reduction Contribution Account, a Matching Contribution Account and a Retirement Restoration Contribution Account for each Participant in the Plan.  As required for appropriate recordkeeping, the Administrator may establish and name subaccounts for each Participant.
If a Retirement Contribution is declared under the Retirement Savings Plan for a Plan Year, as soon as practicable after the end of such Plan Year, the Company shall credit to the Participants Retirement Restoration Contribution Account an amount equal to (a) the percentage declared under the Retirement Savings Plan for purposes of calculating that Participants Retirement Contribution, if any (b) the Participants Plan Compensation.  A Participant will not receive a Retirement Restoration Contribution for a Plan Year unless the Participant receives a Retirement Contribution for a Plan Year.  A Participant must be employed on the last day of such Plan Year to be eligible for a Retirement Restoration Contribution except in the case of a Participant who has died, or who has Retired after completing 1,000 Hours of Service (for purposes of the Retirement Savings Plan), during the Plan Year.
, times
If a Participant makes a Salary Reduction Election under Plan section 2.03 for a Plan Year, the Company shall credit to the Participants Salary Reduction Contribution Account each pay period an amount equal to the amount of Plan Compensation deferred pursuant to such Participants Salary Reduction Election.
 
A Participant who makes a Salary Reduction Contribution and who has completed at least one Eligibility Computation Period (as defined in the Retirement Savings Plan) shall be entitled to a Matching Contribution with respect to such Salary Reduction Contribution.  The amount of such Matching Contribution shall be equal to fifty percent (50%) of a percentage (as announced by the Administrator) of such Salary Reduction Contribution for such Plan Year, but not to exceed five percent (5%) of such Salary Reduction Contribution for the Plan Year.
 
8
 
(a)           A Participant shall select investment options at the time he files an application to become a Participant (any such selections shall be in increments of one percent (1%)).  If a Participant does not select the funds in which his Account shall be invested, his Account shall be invested in the manner determined by the Administrator or, if no such determination is announced, in the applicable default investment fund or funds under the Retirement Savings Plan.  A Participant may change his investment options on a daily basis.
(b)           As of each Valuation Date, the Company shall credit to each Participant electing investment in a fund, the net income (or loss), including all realized and unrealized gains and losses, of that fund since the last Valuation Date attributable to his Account, according to the ratio of the portion of each Participants Account invested in that fund as of the day immediately following the last Valuation Date, less any withdrawals or transfers since such date, to the sum of all portions of the Participants Account balances invested in that fund, similarly determined.
(c)           All investments under this Plan section are deemed investments used solely for measurement of the value of a Participants Account.
(a)             A Participant shall at all times have a one hundred percent (100%) vested, nonforfeitable interest in his Salary Reduction Contribution Account.
Salary Reduction Contribution Account.
(b)           A Participant who dies or Retires shall have a one hundred percent (100%) vested, nonforfeitable interest in his Matching Contribution and Retirement Restoration Contribution Accounts.  Otherwise, a Participant shall have a one hundred percent (100%) vested, nonforfeitable interest in his Matching Contribution and Retirement Restoration Contribution Accounts only after he has completed three Years of Vesting Service with the Company.  Prior to the vesting events described in this Plan section 3.06, a Participants Matching Contribution and Retirement Restoration Contribution Accounts shall be entirely forfeitable.
Matching Contribution and Retirement Restoration Contribution Accounts.
 
 
9
 
(a)           In the event of a Participants Termination of Employment (including due to death) or Total and Permanent Disability, the Plan shall pay the Participant or his Beneficiary, as the case may be, the total vested value of the Participants Account.  Such payment shall be made within sixty (60) days following (i) the Participants Termination of Employment, (ii) death or (iii) the date such Participant is determined to be Totally and Permanently Disabled.
(b)           Notwithstanding Plan section 4.01(a), if required by Code section 409A, for a Participant who is entitled to a distribution upon Termination of Employment other than due to death or Total and Permanent Disability, and who is a Key Employee on the date of his Termination of Employment, the Plan shall pay the Participant the total vested value of the Participants Account on the first day of the month following the six-month anniversary of such Participants Termination of Employment.
Payment shall be made from the Plan to a Participant or Beneficiary in a single sum in cash.
Participants and, if applicable, Beneficiaries shall be provided with proper notice and election forms for the purpose of withholding Federal income tax from distributions from the Plan in accordance with Code section 3405.
Payment of the value of the Participants Account under this Article shall discharge the Companys obligation to the Participant or his Beneficiary.
 
10
 
(a)           The Plan will be administered by the Administrator.  The Committee shall monitor the performance of the Administrator appointed to administer the Plan.
(b)           The Companys Chief Financial Officer shall appoint a committee to perform the day-to-day functions of administering the Plan and to function as the Administrator of the Plan.  A Participant may be appointed to serve on such committee.  Except as may be directed by the Company, no person serving as Administrator will receive any compensation for his services as Administrator.
The Administrator will have full power and discretion to administer the Plan, including as to all of its details, including the power to decide Plan benefit claims.  For this purpose, the Administrators power will include, but will not be limited to, the following authority:
(a)           to make and enforce such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or proper for the efficient administration of the Plan or as required to comply with applicable law;
(b)           to interpret the Plan, its interpretation thereof in good faith to be final and conclusive as to any Employee, former Employee, Participant, former Participant and Beneficiary;
(c)           to decide all questions concerning the Plan, including whether a payment of Plan benefits is due;
(d)           to compute the amount of benefits which will be payable to any Participant, former Participant or Beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, and to determine the person or persons to whom such benefits will be paid;
(e)           to authorize the payment of Plan benefits;
(f)           to keep such records and submit such filings, elections, applications, returns or other documents or forms as may be required under the Code and applicable regulations, or under state or local law and regulations; and
(g)           to appoint such agents, counsel, accountants, consultants and record keepers as may be required to assist in administering the Plan.
 
11
 
(a)           Any claim by a Participant or his Beneficiary (hereafter the Claimant) for benefits shall be submitted in writing to the Administrator.  The Administrator shall be responsible for deciding whether such claim is payable, or the claimed relief otherwise is allowable, in its discretion under the provisions and rules of the Plan (a Covered Claim) and in accordance with the requirements of ERISA and Department of Labor regulations thereunder.  The Committee shall be responsible for providing a full review of the Administrators decision with regard to any claim, upon a written request by the Claimant.
(b)           Each Claimant or other interested person shall file with the Administrator or the Committee such pertinent information as the Administrator or the Committee may specify, and in such manner and form as the Administrator or the Committee may specify; and, such person shall not have any rights or be entitled to any benefits, or further benefits, hereunder, as the case may be, unless the required information is filed by the Claimant or on behalf of the Claimant.  Each Claimant shall supply, at such times and in such manner as may be required, written proof that the benefit is covered under the Plan.  If it is determined that a Claimant has not incurred a Covered Claim or if the Claimant shall fail to furnish such proof as is requested, no benefits, or no further benefits, hereunder, as the case may be, shall be payable to such Claimant.
All reasonable costs incurred in the administration of the Plan shall be paid by the Company.
In discharging the duties assigned to it under the Plan, the Committee, the Administrator and each other fiduciary with respect to the Plan has the discretion to: interpret the Plan; adopt, amend and rescind rules and regulations pertaining to its duties under the Plan; and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the discharge of its duties under the Plan.  Each fiduciarys discretionary authority is absolute and exclusive if exercised in a uniform and nondiscriminatory manner with respect to similarly situated individuals.  The express grant in the Plan of any specific power to a fiduciary with respect to any duty assigned to it under the Plan must not be construed as limiting any power or authority of the fiduciary to discharge its duties.  A fiduciarys decision is final and conclusive unless it is established that the fiduciarys decision constituted an abuse of its discretion, and no Plan benefits shall be paid to any Claimant unless the Administrator or the Committee shall determine, in its sole discretion, that such benefits are due.
 
12
 
The Company shall have the right by action of the Committee or its delegate to modify, alter or amend the Plan in whole or in part, provided that any such action shall not, in any way, retroactively reduce any benefit to a Participant or Beneficiary (to the extent that such benefit was accrued and vested prior to such amendment or modification).
The Company reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time by action of its Board or its delegate provided that any such action shall not, in any way, retroactively reduce any benefit to a Participant or Beneficiary (to the extent that such benefit was accrued and vested prior to such termination).  Any termination of the Plan must satisfy the requirements of Code section 409A.
 
13
 
The Plan shall not be deemed to constitute a contract between the Company and any Participant or to be consideration or an inducement for the employment of any Participant of the Company.  Nothing contained in the Plan shall be deemed to give any Participant the right to be retained in the service of the Company or to interfere with the rights of the Company to discharge or to terminate the service of any Participant at any time without regard to the effect such discharge or termination may have on any rights under the Plan.
All Plan Participants and Beneficiaries are general unsecured creditors of the Company with respect to the benefits due hereunder and the Plan constitutes a mere promise by the Company to make benefit payments in the future.  It is the intention of the Company that the Plan be considered unfunded for tax purposes.
The Company may, but is not required to, establish a grantor trust which may be used to hold assets of the Company which are maintained as reserves against the Companys unfunded, unsecured obligations hereunder.  Such reserves shall at all times be subject to the claims of the Companys creditors.  To the extent such trust or other vehicle is established, and assets contributed, for the purpose of fulfilling the Companys obligation hereunder, then such obligation of the Company shall be reduced to the extent such assets are utilized to meet its obligations hereunder.  Any such trust and the assets held thereunder are intended to conform in substance to the terms of the model trust described in Revenue Procedure 92-64.
If a Participant or Beneficiary entitled to receive any benefits hereunder is a minor or is deemed so by the Administrator or is adjudged to be legally incapable of giving valid receipt and discharge for such benefits, benefits will be paid to such person as the Administrator might designate.  Such payments shall, to the extent made, be deemed a complete discharge of any liability for such payment under the Plan.
 
14
 
To the extent permitted by law, no benefit payable under the Plan will be subject in any manner to anticipation, assignment, garnishment or pledge.  Any attempt to anticipate, assign, garnish or pledge the same will be void and no such benefits will be made in any manner liable for or subject to the debts, liabilities, engagements or torts of any Participants.
The headings and subheadings in this Plan have been inserted for convenience of reference only and are to be ignored in any construction of the provisions hereof.
In the construction of the Plan the masculine shall include the feminine and the singular the plural in all cases where such meanings are indicated by the context.
At the time of enrollment in the Plan, each Participant must designate a Beneficiary to receive settlement of his Plan account in the event of his death during employment.  A Participant may, from time to time, change a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries under the Plan.  In the event that no designated Beneficiary is surviving at the time of the Participants death, settlement under the Plan will be made as provided in Plan section 1.03.
In the event an innocent error or omission is discovered in the operation or administration of the Plan, the Administrator or the Committee may make such equitable adjustments that it deems necessary or desirable to correct the error or omission.
Except as otherwise provided by federal law, the provisions of this Plan shall be construed and enforced according to Virginia laws, and all of the provisions of the Plan shall be administered in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.
(a)           Any benefit, payment or other right provided by the Plan shall be provided or made in a manner, and at such time, in such form and subject to such election procedures (if any), as complies with the applicable requirements of Code section 409A to avoid a plan failure described in Code section 409A(a)(1), including without limitation,
 
15
 
deferring payment until the occurrence of a specified payment event described in Code section 409A(a)(2).  Notwithstanding any other provision hereof or document pertaining hereto, the Plan shall be so construed and interpreted to meet the applicable requirements of Code section 409A to avoid a plan failure described in Code section 409A(a)(1).
(b)           It is specifically intended that all elections, consents and modifications thereto under the Plan will comply with the requirements of Code section 409A (including any transition or grandfather rules thereunder).  The Company is authorized to adopt rules or regulations deemed necessary or appropriate in connection therewith to anticipate and/or comply with the requirements of Code section 409A (including any transition or grandfather rules thereunder) and to declare any election, consent or modification thereto void if non-compliant with Code section 409A.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Plan to be executed on October 21, 2008 and effective as of the 1 day of January, 2009.
st
CARMAX, INC.
By:          
/s/ Keith D. Browning
Keith D. Browning
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16


