FILE:KMX/KMX-8K-20080402073245.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Richmond, Va., April 2, 2008  CarMax, Inc. (NYSE:KMX) today reported results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended February 29, 2008.
Fourth Quarter Business Performance Review
.  While business conditions in the automotive retail market remained challenging, our used car sales were stronger than we anticipated at the start of the quarter, said Tom Folliard, president and chief executive officer.  We continued to experience healthy consumer traffic, which we believe reflects the strength of our consumer offer, as well as improvements made to carmax.com over the last several quarters.  Fourth quarter sales were supported by the continued consistent availability of credit from CAF and third-party financing providers.  Leap year added one extra selling day to the fourth quarter, and, as expected, this benefited our comparable store used unit sales by approximately 1%.
Sales
Given the continuation of the more difficult economic environment, we moderately reduced our margin targets in order to create additional value for our customers and drive sales.  Execution by our store teams improved and conversion rates increased modestly compared with the prior years quarter.  In addition, our data indicates that we continued to gain market share in the late-model used vehicle market.
Fourth quarter wholesale sales were similar to the prior year level.  Wholesale unit sales grew at a slower pace than our used retail unit sales, reflecting a decrease in our appraisal buy rate (defined as appraisal purchases as a percent of vehicles appraised).
- more -
CarMax, Inc.
Page 2 of 11
New vehicle sales declined by 20%, reflecting the combination of the soft new car sales environment and the sale of our Orlando Chrysler Jeep Dodge franchise in the second quarter of fiscal 2008.  Other sales and revenues increased 13%, similar to the increase in our used vehicle sales.
.  Our total gross profit per unit declined by $120 to $2,531 compared with $2,651 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007.  The majority of the decline resulted from a $111 per unit decrease in gross profit per used vehicle.  In the more challenging consumer environment, we were willing to sacrifice some margin when we felt doing so could benefit sales, consistent with our long-term strategy to deliver a superior customer experience and grow market share.
Gross Profit
Wholesale gross profit per unit increased slightly to $809 per unit compared with $805 per unit in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007.  We continued to experience strong dealer attendance at our auctions, despite the challenging economic environment.
.  CAF generated a pre-tax loss of $1.0 million compared with income of $31.7 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007.  Primarily as a result of the continuing turmoil and illiquidity in the global asset-backed credit markets, we incurred unfavorable adjustments and higher funding costs at CAF totaling $34.6 million before taxes, or $0.10 per share.  It is disappointing to have incurred these significant and largely external, market-driven expenses, which adversely affected CAF income, said Folliard.  However, we remain committed to our finance operation.  We are confident CAF provides a competitive advantage for CarMax, and it allows us to maximize market share gains in all economic environments.  Even including the effects of the unfavorable CAF income adjustments and high funding costs in fiscal 2008, CAF provided greater profitability and greater business stability compared with being entirely reliant on third-party financing sources.
CarMax Auto Finance
The CAF adjustments and higher funding costs for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 included the following items:
- more - -
CarMax, Inc.
Page 3 of 11
 
Excluding the effect of adjustments related to loans originated in prior quarters, CAFs gain on loans originated and sold as a percentage of loans originated and sold (the gain percentage) was 3.6% in this years fourth quarter compared with 4.0% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007.
.  Selling, general and administrative expenses were 10.8% of total revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 compared with 10.7% in the prior years fourth quarter.  The increase largely resulted from the modest level of comparable store sales increases and our commitment to our ongoing growth plans, as well as our decision to continue spending on strategic, operational and Internet initiatives in fiscal 2008.  In addition, the SG&A ratio in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 was adversely affected by a high level of pre-opening costs and a $4.9 million impairment charge associated with a subsequently divested new car franchise.
SG&A
.Fourth quarter net earnings declined to $21.8 million, or $0.10 per share, from $42.1 million, or $0.19 per share, in fiscal 2007.  While the decline in the economy had a dampening effect on our sales and profits, the unprecedented turbulence in the capital markets and its effect on CAF income represented the majority of the decrease in our earnings, said Folliard.
Earnings and Earnings per Share
 
.  During the fourth quarter, we opened two production superstores, in Omaha, Nebraska, and Jackson, Mississippi, and a non-production superstore in Baltimore, Maryland.
Store Openings
For the fiscal year, we opened a total of 12 superstores, expanding our store base by 16%.  We entered five new markets and expanded our presence in five existing markets.  These openings included four production superstores and eight non-production superstores.
During fiscal 2008, we also expanded our car-buying center test with the opening of buying centers in the Raleigh, North Carolina, and Tampa, Florida, markets.  At these locations, we conduct appraisals and purchase, but do not sell, vehicles.  These test centers are part of our long-term plan to increase both appraisal traffic and retail vehicle sourcing self-sufficiency.
Supplemental Financial Information
Sales Components
- more -
 
CarMax, Inc.
Page 4 of 11
 
Retail Vehicle Sales Changes
Retail Vehicle Sales Mix
Unit Sales
Average Selling Prices
- more -
 
CarMax, Inc.
Page 5 of 11
 
Selected Operating Ratios
 
Gross Profit
Earnings Highlights
Expectations for Fiscal Year Ending February 28, 2009
.  In fiscal 2009, we plan to expand our used car superstore base by approximately 16%, opening 14 used car superstores, including 7 production and 7 non-production stores.  We plan to enter nine new markets and expand our presence in four existing markets.  Details of the planned store openings and other material construction projects are included in the following table.  Normal construction, permitting or other scheduling delays could shift the opening dates of any stores into a later period.
Fiscal 2009 Superstore Openings and Capital Expenditures
- more -
CarMax, Inc.
Page 6 of 11
 
In fiscal 2009, we plan to open a central reconditioning facility in the Washington, D.C. / Baltimore market, where we currently have six superstores.  We have experienced strong sales growth in this market, and this facility will support additional expected market share gains.  In addition, we are converting our non-production store in Ontario, California, to a production store with the addition of reconditioning facilities, which will support our continued growth in the Los Angeles market.
 
In fiscal 2009, we also plan to expand our car-buying center test with the opening of our fourth and fifth centers, in Dallas, Texas, (opened in April 2008) and in Baltimore, Maryland.  We will continue to evaluate the performance of these five test centers before deciding whether to open additional car-buying centers in future years.
 
We currently estimate gross capital expenditures will total approximately $350 million in fiscal 2009.  Planned expenditures primarily relate to new store construction and land purchases associated with future year store openings.
 
We have revised our long-term store opening expectations to better reflect the actual pace of store openings in recent years and our current assessment of the optimal growth speed in future years.  We now expect to open used car superstores at a rate of approximately 15% of our used car superstore base each year.  Previously, we expected annual store openings in the range of 15% to 20% of our superstore base.
 
.  We currently anticipate comparable store used unit sales in the range of (2)% to 5% in fiscal 2009, said Folliard.  The wide range reflects an expectation of continued volatility in the market for late-model used cars.  We expect total revenues to increase between 7% and 14%, reflecting our planned new store openings, the comparable store sales performance and anticipated declines in both used vehicle average selling prices and new car revenues.
Fiscal 2009 Sales
 
-more -
CarMax, Inc. Page 7 of 11
We are not anticipating any material change in credit availability for our customers in fiscal 2009, despite the fact that AmeriCredit Corp. is no longer one of our third-party financing providers effective April 1, 2008.  We anticipate the majority of loans previously financed by AmeriCredit will be financed by other third-party providers.
.  We currently expect fiscal 2009 earnings per share in the range of $0.78 to $0.94, continued Folliard.  The width of this range reflects the uncertainty of current market conditions, especially in the capital markets.  We expect to maintain our used and wholesale vehicle gross profits per unit at levels similar to those in fiscal 2008.
Fiscal 2009 Earnings Per Share
We are anticipating that the disruption in the capital markets will continue to adversely affect CAF income throughout fiscal 2009 relative to historical norms.  We expect that funding costs for CAF will remain volatile in fiscal 2009.  Based on the spreads achieved in recent comparable auto ABS transactions, we estimate that CAF will have to absorb approximately $14 million of incremental funding costs upon the refinancing of the $855 million that was outstanding in the warehouse facility at the end of fiscal 2008.  In addition, we continue to explore alternate funding structures to the ABS markets.  We currently believe that the CAF gain percentage in fiscal 2009 will be well below the normalized range of 3.5% to 4.5%.  We expect that cumulative net loss rates on fiscal 2009 originations will be consistent with losses currently anticipated on loans originated in fiscal 2008, primarily due to the stresses of the current economy.
Our fiscal 2009 earnings estimates also reflect an expected increase in our SG&A ratio.  The combination of the anticipated comparable store sales performance and the decline in average selling price, together with our continued investments supporting our growth plan will likely cause the SG&A ratio to increase in fiscal 2009.  Interest expense is also expected to increase as we contemplate higher debt levels.
While fiscal 2009 will clearly be another challenging year for us, our confidence in the strength of the CarMax model remains as high as ever, said Folliard.  We still have a huge growth opportunity ahead of us, and we continue to believe our long-term opportunity to increase earnings and grow market share remains enormous.
First Quarter Fiscal 2009 Earnings Release Date
We currently plan to release sales and earnings for the first quarter ended May 31, 2008, on Wednesday, June 18, 2008, before the opening of the New York Stock Exchange.  We will host a conference call for investors at 9:00 a.m. ET on that date.  Further information on this conference call will be available on our investor information home page at investor.carmax.com in June 2008.
Conference Call Information
We will host a conference call for investors at 9:00 a.m. ET today, April 2, 2008.  Domestic investors may access the call at 1-888-298-3261 (international callers dial 1-706-679-7457).  The conference I.D. for both domestic and international callers is 26911377.  A live webcast of the call will be available at investor.carmax.com and at www.streetevents.com.
A webcast replay of the call will be available at investor.carmax.com beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m. ET on April 2, 2008, through May 2, 2008.  A telephone replay also will be available through April 9, 2008, and may be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687 (international callers dial 1-706-645-9291).  The conference I.D. for both domestic and international callers is 26911377.
CarMax, Inc.
Page 8 of 11
About CarMax
CarMax, a 500 company, and one of the 2008 100 Best Companies to Work For, is the nation's largest retailer of used cars.  Headquartered in Richmond, Va., CarMax currently operates 90 used car superstores in 41 markets.  The CarMax consumer offer provides our customers the opportunity to shop for vehicles the way they shop for items at other national retailers, and it is structured around four customer benefits: low, no-haggle prices; a broad selection; high quality vehicles; and a customer-friendly sales process.  During the fiscal year ended February 29, 2008, we retailed 377,244 used cars and sold 222,406 wholesale vehicles at our in-store auctions.  For more information, access the CarMax website at www.carmax.com.
Fortune
Fortune
Forward-Looking Statements
We caution readers that the statements contained in this release about our future business plans, operations, opportunities or prospects, including without limitation any statements or factors regarding expected sales, margins or earnings, are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Such forward-looking statements are based upon managements current knowledge and assumptions about future events and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results.  Among the factors that could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements are the following: changes in the general U.S. or regional U.S. economy; intense competition within our industry; significant changes in retail prices for used and new vehicles; a reduction in the availability or our access to sources of inventory; our ability to acquire suitable real estate; the significant loss of key employees from our store, regional or corporate management teams; the efficient operation of our information systems; changes in the availability or cost of capital and working capital financing; changes in the market for asset-backed financing; the occurrence of adverse weather events; seasonal fluctuations in our business; the geographic concentration of our superstores; the regulatory environment in which we operate; the effect of various litigation matters; the effect of new accounting requirements or changes to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; and the occurrence of certain other material events.  We disclaim any intent or obligation to update our forward-looking statements.
For more details on factors that could affect expectations, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2007, and our quarterly or current reports as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Our filings are publicly available on our investor information home page at investor.carmax.com.  Requests for information may also be made to the Investor Relations Department by email to investor_relations@carmax.com or by calling 1-804-747-0422 ext. 4489.
:
Contacts
Investors and Financial Media:
Katharine Kenny, Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations, (804) 935-4591
Celeste Gunter, Manager, Investor Relations, (804) 935-4597
General Media:
Lisa Van Riper, Assistant Vice President, Public Affairs, (804) 935-4594
Trina Lee, Public Relations Manager, (804) 747-0422, ext. 4197
 
- more -
CarMax, Inc.
Page 9 of 11
 
- more -
 
CarMax, Inc.
Page 10 of 11
 
- more -
 
CarMax, Inc.
Page 11 of 11
 


