FILE:KMX/KMX-8K-20080922080233.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Richmond, Va., September 22, 2008  CarMax, Inc. (NYSE:KMX) today reported results for the second quarter ended August 31, 2008.
Second Quarter Business Performance Review
.  The slowdown in the economy and reductions in consumer spending power resulting from higher gasoline and food costs continued to create a difficult environment for our business, said Tom Folliard, president and chief executive officer.  Our comparable store used unit sales declined 17%, which was similar to the decline in customer traffic in our stores.  Despite the current business environment, the solid execution by our store teams resulted in a conversion rate that was only marginally below the rate in the prior years second quarter.  Our used vehicle average selling price declined 6% primarily as a result of the industry-wide decrease in used car prices, which reduced our inventory acquisition costs.  In the latter part of the quarter, we saw a slight up tick in the sales mix of SUVs and trucks, reflecting their current attractive valuations.  Our data, which is available through July, indicates that our market share in the late-model used vehicle market declined slightly.
Sales
Wholesale unit sales declined 9%, reflecting a decrease in both appraisal traffic and our appraisal buy rate (defined as the number of appraisal purchases as a percent of vehicles appraised).  Similar to our experience in the first quarter of this fiscal year, we believe the significant year-over-year decline in wholesale market values for SUVs, trucks and other less fuel-efficient vehicles contributed to the declines in both our appraisal traffic and buy rate.
 
CarMax, Inc.
Page 2 of 11
Other sales and revenues decreased 6%.  Third-party finance fees, which are a component of other sales and revenues, declined 51% due to the reduction in sales and a shift in mix among, and discount arrangements with, our third-party finance providers.  The mix shift was largely the result of a tightening in credit availability from some of our third-party nonprime finance providers combined with a decline in the credit profile of our average customer.
.  Total gross profit declined by $32.3 million to $255.9 million primarily because of the decrease in used unit sales.  In addition, the gross profit per used unit declined by $112 to $1,870 compared with $1,982 in last years second quarter.  As in the first quarter, the reduction in appraisal traffic and the appraisal buy rate led to our sourcing a larger percentage of our used vehicles at auction, which had an adverse effect on our gross profit per used unit.
Gross Profit
Compared with the first quarter of this year, however, our gross profit per used vehicle increased by $128 to $1,870 from $1,742.  We were able to achieve this sequential improvement, despite the double-digit decline in comparable store used unit sales.  We believe this improvement was primarily the result of our success in rapidly reducing our vehicle inventories, which brought them back in line with current sales rates and minimized required pricing markdowns.  Compared with inventory levels at stores open as of May 31, 2008, during the second quarter we reduced our used vehicle inventory by more than 13,300 units, representing a reduction in excess of $200 million.
Wholesale gross profit per unit was $897 in the second quarter, representing an increase of more than $100 compared with both the second quarter of last year and the first quarter of the current year.  We continued to experience strong dealer attendance at our auctions, with the normal price competition among bidders contributing to the strong wholesale gross profit performance.  With an average selling price of roughly $4,000, the majority of our wholesale units are older, higher mileage vehicles.  We believe the current demand for these types of vehicles is particularly strong from dealers who specialize in selling to credit-challenged customers.
.  CAF reported a pretax loss of $7.1 million compared with income of $33.4 million in last years second quarter.  CAF results for the second quarter of fiscal 2009 were reduced by $28.2 million for adjustments primarily related to loans originated in prior fiscal years.  These adjustments included the following:
CarMax Auto Finance
The adjustments related to reducing the fair value of the retained subordinated bonds and increasing the discount rate are non-cash charges that primarily affect the timing of the recognition of CAF income.  If current conditions continue, these adjustments should result in positive contributions to CAF earnings in future periods.
 
CarMax, Inc.
Page 3 of 11
The gain recognized on loans originated and sold in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 was also adversely affected by the disruption in the credit markets and worsening economic conditions.  The gain percentage, which represents the gain on the sale of loans originated and sold as a percentage of loans originated and sold, decreased to 1.8% from 4.0% in the second quarter of fiscal 2008.  This decrease resulted from the combination of higher current funding costs that we have been unable to offset through higher consumer rates; the increase in the discount rate assumption to 19% from 12% utilized in the second quarter of last year; the use of a higher loss rate assumption for current quarter originations compared with the assumption used in the prior years quarter; and an increase in the credit enhancement requirements in the warehouse facility.  In addition, CAFs origination volume was negatively affected by the slowdown in unit sales, the decrease in average retail prices and a small decline in the percentage of sales financed by CAF.
.  Selling, general and administrative expenses were 12.2% of total revenues in the second quarter of fiscal 2009 compared with 10.1% in the prior years second quarter.  This increase in the SG&A ratio was the result of the significant declines in comparable store used unit sales and average selling price, and this increase was partially offset by our success in reducing costs.  In the current market environment, we are focusing on reducing variable costs in an effort to control expenses.  In our stores, thus far we have adjusted associate scheduling resulting in reduced hours worked, and we have allowed the natural attrition in the workforce to reduce variable store staffing.  In addition, we have implemented a hiring freeze at the home office and are carefully monitoring expenses at CAF.
SG&A
.  We believe that the reduction in our second quarter earnings stems mainly from the effect of external conditions and that we are taking the necessary and appropriate steps to navigate through this difficult environment, said Folliard.  We have been successful in dramatically reducing inventories to align them with current sales, which in turn has allowed us to achieve an increase in our gross profit per unit compared with the first quarter.  Our wholesale business performed strongly throughout this challenging period.  We continue to focus on aligning overhead costs with current sales levels, and we expect to continue to find opportunities to further shrink costs.  At the same time, we remain committed to delivering the exceptional customer service that underpins our long-term prospects.
Earnings and Earnings Per Share
.  During the second quarter, we increased the aggregate limit under our revolving credit facility by $200 million to a total of $700 million.  We also increased the capacity of our warehouse facility used to securitize CAF auto loan receivables by $400 million to a total of $1.4 billion.  We believe these increases will provide us with added resources and greater flexibility to operate in the current environment.
Credit Facilities
As of August 31, 2008, we had $210.3 million outstanding under the revolving credit facility.  During the first half of fiscal 2009, we were able to reduce borrowings under this facility by $89.9 million, despite our lower earnings.  In large part, this reflected our success in reducing inventories, which declined $239.6 million in the first half of fiscal 2009, even as we opened nine superstores.  As of August 31, 2008, $600 million of auto loan receivables were securitized through the warehouse facility and unused warehouse capacity totaled $800 million.
.  During the second quarter, we opened three used car superstores, entering the Colorado Springs, Colorado, and the Tulsa, Oklahoma, markets with production superstores, and expanding our presence in the Los Angeles market with a non-production superstore in Costa Mesa, California.
Superstore Openings
 
CarMax, Inc.
Page 4 of 11
Supplemental Financial Information
Sales Components
Retail Vehicle Sales Changes
 
CarMax, Inc. Page 5 of 11
Retail Vehicle Sales Mix
Unit Sales
Average Selling Prices
Selected Operating Ratios
 
CarMax, Inc.
Page 6 of 11
Gross Profit
CAF Income
Earnings Highlights
Fiscal 2009 Expectations
As a result of the unprecedented near-term declines in traffic and sales and the current volatility in the asset-backed credit markets, we are not yet able to make a meaningful projection of fiscal 2009 earnings, said Folliard.
Effective January 1, 2009, we will introduce significant enhancements to our 401(k) plan, including both an increased company matching component and a company-funded contribution made regardless of associate participation, and, at the same time, we will freeze our pension plan.  We believe our revised retirement program will be easier to understand and give associates more control over their retirement savings while also allowing us to control escalating and unpredictable pension expenses.
- more -
CarMax, Inc.
Page 7 of 11
 
Future Store Opening Plan
As previously announced, we have decided to temporarily slow our store growth.  We believe slowing growth will both aid profitability and reduce our capital needs in the near term.  During the balance of fiscal 2009, we plan to open one additional used car superstore, and in fiscal 2010, we plan to open between five and ten superstores.
Details of store openings planned during the twelve months ending August 31, 2009, are as follows:
Normal construction, permitting or other scheduling delays could shift the opening dates of any of these stores into a later period.
Conference Call Information
We will host a conference call for investors at 9:00 a.m. ET today, September 22, 2008.  Domestic investors may access the call at 1-888-298-3261 (international callers dial 1-706-679-7457).  The conference I.D. for both domestic and international callers is 26913797.  A live webcast of the call will be available on our investor information home page at investor.carmax.com and at www.streetevents.com.
A webcast replay of the call will be available at investor.carmax.com beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m. ET on September 22, 2008 through October 22, 2008.  A telephone replay also will be available through September 30, 2008, and may be accessed by dialing 1-800-642-1687 (international callers dial 1-706-645-9291).  The conference I.D. for both domestic and international callers is 26913797.
Third Quarter Fiscal 2009 Earnings Release Date
We currently plan to release third quarter sales and earnings on Friday, December 19, 2008, before the opening of the New York Stock Exchange.  We will host a conference call for investors at 9:00 a.m. ET on that date.  Information on this conference call will be available on our investor information home page at investor.carmax.com in early December.
About CarMax
CarMax, a company, and one of the 2008 100 Best Companies to Work For, is the nations largest retailer of used cars.  Headquartered in Richmond, Va., we currently operate 98 used car superstores in 46 markets.  The CarMax consumer offer is structured around four customer benefits: low, no-haggle prices; a broad selection; high quality vehicles; and customer-friendly service.  During the twelve months ended February 29, 2008, we retailed 377,244 used cars and sold 222,406 wholesale vehicles at our in-store auctions.  For more information, access the CarMax website at www.carmax.com.
Fortune 500
Fortune
- more -
CarMax, Inc.
Page 8 of 11
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
We caution readers that the statements contained in this release about our future business plans, operations, opportunities or prospects, including without limitation any statements or factors regarding expected sales, margins or earnings, are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Such forward-looking statements are based upon managements current knowledge and assumptions about future events and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results.  Among the factors that could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements are the following:
For more details on factors that could affect expectations, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 29, 2008, and our quarterly or current reports as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Our filings are publicly available on our investor information home page at investor.carmax.com.  Requests for information may also be made to the Investor Relations Department by email to investor_relations@carmax.com or by calling 1-804-747-0422 ext. 4489.  We disclaim any intent or obligation to update our forward-looking statements.
:
Contacts
Investors and Financial Media:
Katharine Kenny, Assistant Vice President, Investor Relations, (804) 935-4591
Celeste Gunter, Manager, Investor Relations, (804) 935-4597
General Media:
Lisa Van Riper, Assistant Vice President, Public Affairs, (804) 935-4594
Trina Lee, Director, Public Relations, (804) 747-0422, ext. 4197
 
CarMax, Inc.
Page 9 of 11
 
 
CarMax, Inc.
Page 10 of 11
 
CarMax, Inc.
Page 11 of 11


