FILE:KMX/KMX-8K-20111223161047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amendments to Form of Notice of Stock Option Grant, Form of Notice of MSU Grant and Form of Notice of RSU Grant
Effective December 21, 2011, the Compensation and Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors of CarMax, Inc. (the "Company") approved amendments to the Company's form of notice of stock option grant, form of notice of Market Stock Unit ("MSU") grant and form of notice of Restricted Stock Unit ("RSU") grant. The amendments to each of the forms of notice addressed the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
Copies of the form of notice of stock option grant, the form of notice of MSU grant and the form of notice of RSU grant are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3, respectively, and are hereby incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 

Exhibit 10.1
[Date]
%%FIRST_NAME%-% %%LAST_NAME%-%
%%ADDRESS_LINE_1%-%
%%ADDRESS_LINE_2%-%
%%CITY%-% , %%STATE%-% %%ZIPCODE%-%
Dear %%FIRST_NAME%-% %%LAST_NAME%-%
The Board of Directors of CarMax, Inc. (the "Company") wants to provide you with an opportunity to share in the success of our Company. Accordingly, I am pleased to inform you that, as of %%OPTION_DATE%_% the Compensation and Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Committee") exercised its authority pursuant to the CarMax, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the "Plan") and granted you to purchase shares of the common stock of CarMax, Inc. (the "Options") as set forth herein. The Options are qualified for Incentive Stock Option tax treatment. Limited stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), described below, were also granted in connection with these Options.
non-statutory options
not
The Options and SARs are subject to the provisions of the Plan. The Committee administers the Plan. The terms of the Plan are incorporated into this notice of Stock Option Grant (the "Notice of Grant") and in the case of any conflict between the Plan and this Notice of Grant, the terms of the Plan shall control. All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given to them in the Plan. Please refer to the Plan for certain conditions not set forth in this Notice of Grant. Additionally, a copy of a Prospectus for the Plan, which describes material terms of the Plan, can be found on The CarMax Way. Copies of the Prospectus, the Plan and the Company's annual report to shareholders on Form 10-K for fiscal year 20     are available from the Company's corporate secretary at (804) 747-0422.
 
Vesting of Options
Except as otherwise provided in this Notice of Grant, the Options will vest and become exercisable according to the following schedule: one-fourth on %%VEST_DATE_PERIOD1%-% , one-fourth on %%VEST_DATE_PERIOD2%-% , one-fourth on %%VEST_DATE_PERIOD3%-% , and one-fourth on %%VEST_DATE_PERIOD4%-% provided you continue to be employed by the Company on such dates.
Termination of Options
The unexercised Options shall terminate upon the earliest to occur of the following conditions:
 
 
If (a) the Company terminates your employment with the Company for any reason other than Cause (as defined in the "Cause" section below), or (b) you have an effective severance or employment agreement with the Company (or a subsidiary of the Company) and you terminate your employment for "Good Reason" (as defined in such agreement), if applicable, then all of your Options will become immediately vested and exercisable, effective as of the date of the termination of your employment. Except as otherwise provided in the "Age and Service Vesting" section set forth below, you, your personal representative, distributees, or legatees, must exercise your Options within three (3) months of the effective date of such termination.
 
 
Cause
For purposes of this Notice of Grant, "Cause" shall mean the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exercise of Options
When the Options are exercisable, you may purchase shares of Company common stock under your Option by:
 
 
 
Death or Disability
If your employment by the Company terminates because you die or become disabled, all of your Options covered by this Notice of Grant will become immediately vested and exercisable, effective as of the date of the termination of your employment, and you, your personal representative, distributees, or legatees, as applicable, may exercise your vested Options at any time before the Expiration Date.
Age and Service Vesting
If your employment with the Company is terminated and such termination is not for Cause, and, as of the date if the termination you have:
 
 
 
then, all of your Options covered by this Notice of Grant will become immediately vested and exercisable, effective as of the date of the termination of your employment, and you, your personal representative, distributees, or legatees, as applicable, may exercise your vested Options at any time before the Expiration Date.
Transferability of Options
Except as provided below, the Options are not transferable by you other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and is exercisable during your lifetime only by you. You may transfer your rights under the Option during your lifetime subject to the following limitations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any Option transferred in accordance with the terms hereof shall be accompanied by the associated SAR.
Change of Control; SARs
Notwithstanding the vesting schedule set forth in the "Vesting of Options" section hereof, in the event of a Change of Control, all unvested Options granted hereunder shall vest in accordance with the following:
 
 
You shall have the right during the period beginning on the applicable vesting date set forth above and ending on the Expiration Date to exercise any and all vested Options in accordance with the provisions of this Notice of Grant.
Pursuant to this Notice of Grant, you have been granted one (1) SAR for every Option granted to you hereunder. Following a Change of Control, you may choose to exercise the SARs granted hereunder in lieu of exercising your vested Options. Doing so will relieve you of the obligation to pay for the exercise of your Options as described above and, instead, will allow you to receive a cash payment of the net value of your SARs as calculated below without having to remit any payment to the Company. The SARs granted in connection with the Options are limited SARs and may be exercised in accordance with the Plan and the terms hereof as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Change in Capital Structure
If the number of outstanding shares of the Company's common stock is increased or decreased as a result of a stock dividend, stock split, subdivision or consolidation of shares, or other similar change in capitalization, the number of Company shares for which you have unexercised Options and the exercise price will automatically be adjusted, as provided in the Plan, (i) so as to preserve the ratio that existed immediately before the change between the number of such shares and the total number of shares of Company stock previously outstanding, and (ii) so that your aggregate Option price remains the same; provided, however, that the Company will not be required to issue any fractional shares upon exercise of your Options as a result of such adjustment.
Legal Fees
The grant of these Options does not obligate the Company to continue your employment. If there is any litigation involving Options, each party will bear its own expenses, including all legal fees, except that in the event of an action brought by you under this Notice of Grant following a Change of Control, then insofar as such action is not deemed to be frivolous by the arbitrator, the Company shall bear all expenses related to the arbitration, including all legal fees incurred by you. The Committee shall have the authority to interpret and administer this Notice of Grant.
Acceptance
By accepting this grant on-line, this Notice of Grant, together with the Plan, will become a Stock Option Agreement between you and the Company that is governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. By accepting this grant online, you agree that you are in compliance with, and will abide by, the Company's "Policy Against Insider Trading" which can be found on The CarMax Way.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
[Date]
 
 
The Board of Directors of CarMax, Inc. (the "Company") wants to provide you with an opportunity to share in the success of our Company. Accordingly, I am pleased to inform you that, as of                      (the "Grant Date"), the Compensation and Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Committee") exercised its authority pursuant to the CarMax, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the "Plan") and granted you Market Stock Units of the Company (the "Market Stock Units") as set forth herein.
The Market Stock Units are a form of Restricted Stock Units under the Plan and are subject to the provisions of the Plan. The Committee administers the Plan. The terms of the Plan are incorporated into this Notice of Market Stock Unit Grant (the "Notice of Grant") and in the case of any conflict between the Plan and this Notice of Grant, the terms of the Plan shall control. All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given to them in the Plan. Please refer to the Plan for certain conditions not set forth in this Notice of Grant. Additionally, a copy of a Prospectus for the Plan, which describes material terms of the Plan, can be found on The CarMax Way. Copies of the Prospectus, the Plan and the Company's annual report to shareholders on Form 10-K for fiscal year 20     are available from the Company's corporate secretary at (804) 747-0422.
 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Notice of Grant, all the Market Stock Units will vest and become nonforfeitable on (the "Specified Date") or such earlier date as may be provided in this Notice of Grant or the Plan (collectively, the "Vesting Date") provided you continue to be employed by the Company or one of its Subsidiaries from the Grant Date until the Vesting Date. No Market Stock Units may vest after the Specified Date and all unvested Market Stock Units on the Specified Date will terminate and be completely forfeited. If prior to any Vesting Date, your employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries terminates for any reason other than those described in Sections B.1, B.2, or B.3, then the Market Stock Units (and any related dividend equivalent rights) subject to this Notice of Grant shall terminate and be completely forfeited on the date of such termination of your employment. To the extent that you do not vest in any Market Stock Units, all interest in such units, the related shares of Company Stock, and any related dividend equivalent rights shall be forfeited. You shall have no right or interest in any Market Stock Unit or related share of Company Stock that is forfeited. Prior to payment, the Market Stock Units are not transferable by you by means of sale, assignment, exchange, pledge or otherwise.
[THREE YEAR ANNIVERSARY DATE]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Payment for your Market Stock Units shall be made in shares of Company Stock upon the earliest to occur of the three payment dates set forth below (each, a "Payment Date").
 
One hundred percent (100%) of the unpaid Market Stock Units (and related dividend equivalent rights), if vested, shall be paid upon the Specified Date.
 
One hundred percent (100%) of the unpaid Market Stock Units (and related dividend equivalent rights), if vested, shall be paid upon your "Separation from Service" (as defined in Code section 409A) due to the Company involuntarily terminating your employment other than for Cause or due to you terminating your employment for Good Reason, if applicable (collectively, an "Involuntary Separation").
In the event payment is made pursuant to your Involuntary Separation, such payment shall be made on the 60
th
day following your Involuntary Separation. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, distributions may not be made to an individual who is a Key Employee (as defined below) as of his or her Involuntary Separation before the date which is six (6) months after the date of the Key Employee's Involuntary Separation (the "Key Employee Delay Period"). Any payments that would otherwise be made during this period of delay shall be accumulated and paid in the calendar month following the last day of the Key Employee Delay Period. For purposes of this award, Key Employee means an employee who, as of December 31st of a calendar year, meets the requirements of Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) to be treated as a "specified employee" of the Company, i.e., a key employee (as defined in Code section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii) applied in accordance with the regulations thereunder and disregarding Code section 416(i)(5)). If you meet the criteria in the preceding sentence, you will be considered a Key Employee for purposes of the Plan and this award for the 12-month period commencing on the next following April 1.
 
Fifty percent (50%) of the Market Stock Units (and related dividend equivalent rights), if vested, shall be paid upon the occurrence of an event that is both a "Change in Control Event" (as defined under Code section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v)) and a Change of Control. Upon the one-year anniversary of the occurrence of an event that is both a Change in Control Event and a Change of Control, the remaining fifty percent (50%) of the Market Stock Units (and related dividend equivalent rights), if vested, shall be paid; provided, however, that if any of the events listed under headings (C)(1)(a) or (b) above occurs after the occurrence of an event that is both a Change in Control Event and a Change of Control but before the one-year anniversary of the occurrence of an event that is both a Change in Control Event and a Change of Control, then the remaining fifty percent (50%) of the Market Stock Units (and related dividend equivalent rights), if vested, shall be paid upon the earliest to occur of, and in accordance with, the events listed under headings (C)(1)(a) or (b) above.
 
The number of shares of Company Stock that will be paid in accordance with Section C shall be determined on the applicable Payment Date in accordance with the following formula:
 
For purposes of the formula set forth above:
 
 
 
 
 
The Market Stock Units shall not represent an equity security of the Company and shall not carry any voting or dividend rights. However, you will have the right to receive payments equivalent to dividends as set forth below. You are an unsecured general creditor of the Company with respect to any payment relating to vested Market Stock Units.
 
You shall accumulate dividend equivalent rights on each Market Stock Unit in an amount equal to the dividends paid, if any, with respect to a share of Company Stock on each date that a dividend is paid on the Company Stock from the Grant Date to the Payment Date. The dividend equivalent rights shall be converted into additional Market Stock Units based on the Fair Market Value of a share of Company Stock on the date the dividend is paid and shall accumulate and be paid in additional shares of Company Stock when the payment for the corresponding Market Stock Unit is made. Such additional Market Stock Units shall be subject to the same forfeiture restrictions as apply to the Market Stock Unit to which they relate and shall be converted into shares of Company Stock using the same formula, Grant Date Fair Market Value and Payment Date Fair Market Value set forth above.
 
The Company or its Subsidiary may withhold from your Market Stock Units or payments under Section C. the amount of taxes required by any federal, state, or local government to be withheld or otherwise deducted and paid with respect to the vesting and payment of your Market Stock Units ("Tax Withholdings"), including without limitation, the Federal Insurance Contributions Act ("FICA") tax imposed and the income tax withholding related to such FICA amounts. At its discretion, the Company or its Subsidiary may require you to reimburse it for any Tax Withholdings and withhold any payments, in whole or in part, until the Company or its Subsidiary is so reimbursed. The Company or its Subsidiary shall also have the unrestricted right to withhold from any other cash amounts due (or to become due) from the Company or its Subsidiary to you, including from your wages or commissions, an amount equal to any Tax Withholdings. The Company or its Subsidiary shall report the payment of any Tax Withholdings and other related information to the appropriate governmental agencies as required under applicable laws.
 
If the number of outstanding shares of the Company Stock is increased or decreased as a result of a stock dividend, stock split, subdivision or consolidation of shares, or other similar change in capitalization, the number of Market Stock Units, the Grant Date Fair Market Value, and the Payment Date Fair Market Value will automatically be adjusted, as provided in the Plan and as the Committee shall determine to be equitably required so as to preserve the value of the Market Stock Units that existed immediately before the change; provided, however, that the Company will not be required to issue any fractional shares as a result of such adjustment.
 
The grant of these Market Stock Units does not obligate the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to continue your employment. If there is any litigation involving Market Stock Units, each party will bear its own expenses, including all legal fees, except that in the event of an action brought by you under this Notice of Grant following a Change of Control, then insofar as such action is not deemed to be frivolous by the arbitrator, the Company shall bear all expenses related to the arbitration, including all legal fees incurred by you. The Committee shall have the authority to interpret and administer this Notice of Grant.
 
The Market Stock Units are intended to comply with Code section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Notice of Grant shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with this intention.
 
By accepting this grant on-line, this Notice of Grant, together with the Plan, will become the entire agreement between you and the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof, and will be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia without regard to conflict of law provisions in any jurisdiction. This Notice of Grant supersedes all prior discussions, negotiations, understandings, commitments and agreements with respect to such matters. By accepting this grant online, you agree that you are in compliance with, and will abide by, the Company's "Policy Against Insider Trading" which can be found on The CarMax Way. You also agree not to sell Company Stock at a time when other applicable laws prohibit a sale. This restriction will apply as long as you are an employee, consultant or director of the Company or one of its Subsidiaries.
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
[Date]
 
 
The Board of Directors of CarMax, Inc. (the "Company") wants to provide you with an opportunity to share in the success of our Company. Accordingly, I am pleased to inform you that, as of                      (the "Grant Date"), the Compensation and Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Committee") exercised its authority pursuant to the CarMax, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the "Plan") and granted you Restricted Stock Units of the Company (the "Restricted Stock Units") as set forth herein.
The Restricted Stock Units are subject to the provisions of the Plan. The Committee administers the Plan. The terms of the Plan are incorporated into this Notice of Restricted Stock Unit Grant (the "Notice of Grant") and in the case of any conflict between the Plan and this Notice of Grant, the terms of the Plan shall control. All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given to them in the Plan. Please refer to the Plan for certain conditions not set forth in this Notice of Grant. Additionally, a copy of a Prospectus for the Plan, which describes material terms of the Plan, can be found on The CarMax Way. Copies of the Prospectus, the Plan and the Company's annual report to shareholders on Form 10-K for fiscal year 20     are available from the Company's corporate secretary at (804) 747-0422.
 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Notice of Grant, all the Restricted Stock Units will vest and become nonforfeitable on (the "Specified Date") or such earlier date as may be provided in this Notice of Grant or the Plan (collectively, the "Vesting Date") provided you continue to be employed by the Company or one of its Subsidiaries from the Grant Date until the Vesting Date. No Restricted Stock Units may vest after the Specified Date and all unvested Restricted Stock Units on the Specified Date will terminate and be completely forfeited. If prior to any Vesting Date, your employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries terminates for any reason other than those described in Sections B.1 or B.2, then the Restricted Stock Units (and any related dividend equivalent rights) subject to this Notice of Grant shall terminate and be completely forfeited on the date of such termination of your employment. To the extent that you do not vest in any Restricted Stock Units, all interest in such units, the related shares of Company Stock, and any related dividend equivalent rights shall be forfeited. You shall have no right or interest in any Restricted Stock Unit or related share of Company Stock that is forfeited. Prior to payment, the Restricted Stock Units are not transferable by you by means of sale, assignment, exchange, pledge or otherwise.
[THREE YEAR ANNIVERSARY DATE]
 
 
 
 
 
Payment for your Restricted Stock Units shall be made in cash upon the earliest to occur of the four payment dates set forth below (each, a "Payment Date").
 
One hundred percent (100%) of the unpaid Restricted Stock Units (and related dividend equivalent rights), if vested, shall be paid upon the Specified Date.
 
One hundred percent (100%) of the unpaid Restricted Stock Units (and related dividend equivalent rights), if vested, shall be paid upon your "Separation from Service" (as defined in Code section 409A). In the event payment is made pursuant to your Separation from Service, such payment shall be made on the 60th day following your Separation from Service. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, distributions may not be made to an individual who is a Key Employee (as defined below) as of his or her Separation from Service before the date which is six (6) months after the date of the Key Employee's Separation from Service (the "Key Employee Delay Period"). Any payments that would otherwise be made during this period of delay shall be accumulated and paid in the calendar month following the last day of the Key Employee Delay Period. For purposes of this award, Key Employee means an employee who, as of December 31st of a calendar year, meets the requirements of Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) to be treated as a "specified employee" of the Company, i.e., a key employee (as defined in Code section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii) applied in accordance with the regulations thereunder and disregarding Code section 416(i)(5)). If you meet the criteria in the preceding sentence, you will be considered a Key Employee for purposes of the Plan and this award for the 12-month period commencing on the next following April 1.
 
One hundred percent (100%) of the unpaid Restricted Stock Units (and related dividend equivalent rights), if vested, shall be paid upon your Disability.
 
Upon the occurrence of an event that is both a "Change in Control Event" (as defined in Code section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v)) and a Change of Control, fifty percent (50%) of the Restricted Stock Units (and related dividend equivalent rights), if vested, shall be paid. Upon the one-year anniversary of the occurrence of an event that is both a Change in Control Event and a Change of Control, the remaining fifty percent (50%) of the Restricted Stock Units (and related dividend equivalent rights), if vested, shall be paid; provided, however, that if any of the events listed under headings (C)(1)(a), (b), or (c) above occurs after the occurrence of an event that is both a Change in Control Event and a Change of Control but before the one-year anniversary of the occurrence of an event that is both a Change in Control Event and a Change of Control, then the remaining fifty percent (50%) of the Restricted Stock Units (and related dividend equivalent rights), if vested, shall be paid upon the earliest to occur of, and in accordance with, the events listed under headings (C)(1)(a), (b), or (c) above.
 
 
 
The Restricted Stock Units shall not represent an equity security of the Company and shall not carry any voting or dividend rights. However, you will have the right to receive payments equivalent to dividends as set forth below. You are an unsecured general creditor of the Company with respect to any payment relating to vested Restricted Stock Units.
 
You shall accumulate dividend equivalent rights on each Restricted Stock Unit in an amount equal to the dividends paid, if any, with respect to a share of Company Stock on each date that a dividend is paid on the Company Stock from the Grant Date to the Payment Date. The dividend equivalent rights shall be converted into additional Restricted Stock Units based on the Fair Market Value of a share of Company Stock on the date the dividend is paid and shall accumulate and be paid in cash when the payment for the corresponding Restricted Stock Unit is made. Such additional Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the same forfeiture restrictions as apply to the Restricted Stock Unit to which they relate.
 
The Company or its Subsidiary may withhold from your Restricted Stock Units or payments under Section C the amount of taxes required by any federal, state, or local government to be withheld or otherwise deducted and paid with respect to the vesting and payment of your Restricted Stock Units ("Tax Withholdings"), including without limitation, the Federal Insurance Contributions Act ("FICA") tax imposed and the income tax withholding related to such FICA amounts. At its discretion, the Company or its Subsidiary may require you to reimburse it for any Tax Withholdings and withhold any payments, in whole or in part, until the Company or its Subsidiary is so reimbursed. The Company or its Subsidiary shall also have the unrestricted right to withhold from any other cash amounts due (or to become due) from the Company or its Subsidiary to you, including from your wages or commissions, an amount equal to any Tax Withholdings. The Company or its Subsidiary shall report the payment of any Tax Withholdings and other related information to the appropriate governmental agencies as required under applicable laws.
 
If the number of outstanding shares of the Company Stock is increased or decreased as a result of a stock dividend, stock split, subdivision or consolidation of shares, or other similar change in capitalization, the number of Restricted Stock Units, the Grant Date Fair Market Value, and the Payment Date Fair Market Value will automatically be adjusted, as provided in the Plan and as the Committee shall determine to be equitably required so as to preserve the value of the Restricted Stock Units that existed immediately before the change.
 
The grant of these Restricted Stock Units does not obligate the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to continue your employment. The Committee shall have the authority to interpret and administer this Notice of Grant.
 
The Restricted Stock Units are intended to comply with Code section 409A and official guidance issued thereunder. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this Notice of Grant shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with this intention.
 
By accepting this grant on-line, this Notice of Grant, together with the Plan, will become the entire agreement between you and the Company with respect to the subject matter hereof, and will be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia without regard to conflict of law provisions in any jurisdiction. This Notice of Grant supersedes all prior discussions, negotiations, understandings, commitments and agreements with respect to such matters. By accepting this grant online, you agree that you are in compliance with, and will abide by, the Company's "Policy Against Insider Trading" which can be found on The CarMax Way. You also agree not to sell Company Stock at a time when other applicable laws prohibit a sale. This restriction will apply as long as you are an employee, consultant or director of the Company or one of its Subsidiaries.
 
 


