Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Risks Associated With Our Business Cyclical Demand for Products. The cyclical nature of the industries in which our customers operate causes demand for our products to be cyclical, creating potential uncertainty regarding future profitability. Various changes in general economic conditions may affect the industries in which our customers operate. These changes could include decreases in the rate of consumption or use of our customers products due to economic downturns. Other factors that may cause fluctuation in our customers positions are changes in market demand, lower overall pricing due to domestic and international overcapacity, currency fluctuations, lower priced imports and increases in use or decreases in prices of substitute materials. As a result of these factors, our profitability has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuation. Worldwide economic conditions deteriorated significantly in the recent past and could remain weak in the future. These conditions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on demand for our customers products and, in turn, on demand for our products. If these conditions persist or worsen, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Product Pricing. From time to time, reduced demand, intense competition and excess manufacturing capacity have resulted in reduced prices, excluding raw material surcharges, for many of our products. These factors have had and may have an adverse impact on our revenues, operating results and financial condition. Although inflationary trends in recent years have been moderate, during most of the same period certain critical raw material costs, such as nickel, titanium sponge, chromium, and molybdenum and scrap containing iron, nickel, titanium, chromium, and molybdenum have been volatile and at historically high levels. While we have been able to mitigate some of the adverse impact of rising raw material costs through raw material surcharges or indices to customers, rapid increases in raw material costs may adversely affect our results of operations. We change prices on certain of our products from time to time. The ability to implement price increases is dependent on market conditions, economic factors, raw material costs and availability, competitive factors, operating costs and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. The benefits of any price increases may be delayed due to long manufacturing lead times and the terms of existing contracts. Risks Associated with Commercial Aerospace. A significant portion of the sales of our High Performance Metals segment represents products sold to customers in the commercial aerospace industry. The commercial aerospace industry has historically been cyclical due to factors both external and internal to the airline industry. These factors include general economic conditions, airline profitability, consumer demand for air travel, varying fuel and labor costs, price competition, and international and domestic political conditions such as military conflict and the threat of terrorism. The length and degree of cyclical fluctuation are influenced by these factors and therefore are difficult to predict with certainty. Demand for our products in this segment is subject to these cyclical trends. For example, the average price per pound for our titanium mill products was $11.89 for the period 2002 through 2004, $22.75 in 2005, $33.83 in 2006, $30.14 in 2007, $25.60 in 2008, $20.92 in 2009 and $19.37 in 2010, and the average price per pound for our nickel based and specialty alloys was $7.19 for the period 2002 through 2004, $11.25 in 2005, $14.35 in 2006, $19.16 in 2007, $18.14 in 2008, $14.43 in 2009 and $14.03 in 2010. A downturn in the commercial aerospace industry has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on the prices at which we are able to sell these and other products, and our results of operations, business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Strategic Capital Projects. From time to time, we undertake strategic capital projects in order to enhance, expand and or upgrade our facilities and operational capabilities. For instance, over the past four years we have undertaken major expansions of our titanium and premium melt nickel based alloy, superalloy and specialty alloy production capabilities, and commenced construction of a new advanced specialty metals hot rolling and processing facility. Our ability to achieve the anticipated increased revenues or otherwise realize acceptable returns on these investments or other strategic capital projects that we may undertake is subject to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control, including a variety of market, operational, permitting, and labor related factors. In addition, the cost to implement any given strategic capital project ultimately may prove to be greater than originally anticipated. If we are not able to achieve the anticipated results from the implementation of any of our strategic capital projects, or if we incur unanticipated implementation costs, our results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected. Dependence on Critical Raw Materials Subject to Price and Availability Fluctuations. We rely to a substantial extent on third parties to supply certain raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products. Purchase prices and availability of these critical raw materials are subject to volatility. At any given time we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of these critical raw materials on a timely basis, on price and other terms acceptable, or at all. If suppliers increase the price of critical raw materials, we may not have alternative sources of supply. In addition, to the extent that we have quoted prices to customers and accepted customer orders for products prior to purchasing necessary raw materials, or have existing contracts, we may be unable to raise the price of products to cover all or part of the increased cost of the raw materials. The manufacture of some of our products is a complex process and requires long lead times. As a result, we may experience delays or shortages in the supply of raw materials. If unable to obtain adequate and timely deliveries of required raw materials, we may be unable to timely manufacture sufficient quantities of products. This could cause us to lose sales, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions, or suffer harm to our reputation. We acquire certain important raw materials that we use to produce specialty materials, including nickel, chromium, cobalt, and titanium sponge, from foreign sources. Some of these sources operate in countries that may be subject to unstable political and economic conditions. These conditions may disrupt supplies or affect the prices of these materials. Volatility of Raw Material Costs. The prices for many of the raw materials we use have been extremely volatile. Since we value most of our inventory utilizing the last in, first out (LIFO) inventory costing methodology, a rapid rise in raw material costs has a negative effect on our operating results. Under the LIFO inventory valuation method, changes in the cost of raw materials and production activities are recognized in cost of sales in the current period even though these material and other costs may have been incurred at significantly different values due to the length of time of our production cycle. For example, in 2009 and 2008, the effect of falling raw material costs on our LIFO inventory valuation method resulted in cost of sales which were $102.8 million and $169.0 million, respectively, lower than have been recognized had we utilized the first in, first out (FIFO) methodology to value our inventory. Conversely in 2010, the increase in raw material costs on the LIFO inventory valuation method resulted in cost of sales which was $60.2 million higher than would have been recognized if we utilized the FIFO methodology to value our inventory. In a period of rising raw material prices, cost of sales expense recognized under LIFO is generally higher than the cash costs incurred to acquire the inventory sold. However, in a period of declining raw material prices, cost of sales recognized under LIFO is generally lower than cash costs incurred to acquire the inventory sold. Availability of Energy Resources. We rely upon third parties for our supply of energy resources consumed in the manufacture of our products. The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by political and economic factors beyond our control. Disruptions in the supply of energy resources could temporarily impair the ability to manufacture products for customers. Further, increases in energy costs, or changes in costs relative to energy costs paid by competitors, has and may continue to adversely affect our profitability. To the extent that these uncertainties cause suppliers and customers to be more cost sensitive, increased energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Associated with Environmental Matters. We are subject to various domestic and international environmental laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants, and disposal of wastes, and which may require that we investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. We could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations or liabilities under these laws or non compliance with environmental permits required at our facilities. We are currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of our current and former sites as well as third party sites. We also could be subject to future laws and regulations that govern greenhouse gas emissions and various matters related to climate change, which could increase our operating costs. 10 Table of Contents With respect to proceedings brought under the federal Superfund laws, or similar state statutes, we have been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at approximately 39 of such sites, excluding those at which we believe we have no future liability. Our involvement is limited or de minimis at approximately 30 of these sites, and the potential loss exposure with respect to any of the remaining 9 individual sites is not considered to be material. We are a party to various cost sharing arrangements with other PRPs at the sites. The terms of the cost sharing arrangements are subject to non disclosure agreements as confidential information. Nevertheless, the cost sharing arrangements generally require all PRPs to post financial assurance of the performance of the obligations or to pre pay into an escrow or trust account their share of anticipated site related costs. In addition, the Federal government, through various agencies, is a party to several such arrangements. We believe that we operate our businesses in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. However, from time to time, we are a party to lawsuits and other proceedings involving alleged violations of, or liabilities arising from environmental laws. When our liability is probable and we can reasonably estimate our costs, we record environmental liabilities in our financial statements. In many cases, we are not able to determine whether we are liable, or if liability is probable, to reasonably estimate the loss or range of loss. Estimates of our liability remain subject to additional uncertainties, including the nature and extent of site contamination, available remediation alternatives, the extent of corrective actions that may be required, and the participation number and financial condition of other PRPs, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation. We intend to adjust our accruals to reflect new information as appropriate. Future adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a given period, but we cannot reliably predict the amounts of such future adjustments. At December 31, 2010, our reserves for environmental matters totaled approximately $16 million. Based on currently available information, we do not believe that there is a reasonable possibility that a loss exceeding the amount already accrued for any of the sites with which we are currently associated (either individually or in the aggregate) will be an amount that would be material to a decision to buy or sell our securities. Future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters, however, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Associated with Current or Future Litigation and Claims. A number of lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our currently and formerly owned businesses, including those pertaining to product liability, patent infringement, commercial, government contracting work, employment, employee benefits, taxes, environmental, health and safety and occupational disease, and stockholder matters. Due to the uncertainties of litigation, we can give no assurance that we will prevail on all claims made against us in the lawsuits that we currently face or that additional claims will not be made against us in the future. While the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and some of these lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be determined adversely to us, we do not believe that the disposition of any such pending matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or liquidity, although the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for that period. Also, we can give no assurance that any other matters brought in the future will not have a material effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. Labor Matters. We have approximately 9,200 full time employees. A portion of our workforce is covered by various collective bargaining agreements, principally with the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (USW), including: approximately 2,475 Allegheny Ludlum production, office and maintenance employees covered by collective bargaining agreements that are effective through June 2011, approximately 185 Albany, Oregon (Oremet) employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement that is effective through June 2011, approximately 525 Wah Chang employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement that continues through March 2013, approximately 120 employees at our Casting Service facility in LaPorte, Indiana, covered by a collective bargaining agreement that is effective through December 2011, approximately 125 employees at our Precision Finishing (formerly Rome Metals) facilities in western Pennsylvania, covered by a collective bargaining agreement that is effective through May 2013, and approximately 200 employees at our Portland Forge facility in Portland, Indiana, covered by collective bargaining agreements with three unions that are effective through April 2013. Generally, collective bargaining agreements that expire may be terminated after notice by the union. After termination, the union may authorize a strike. A strike by the employees covered by one or more of the collective bargaining agreements could have a materially adverse affect on our operating results. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in concluding collective bargaining agreements with the unions to replace those that expire. Export Sales. We believe that export sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our future revenues. Risks associated with export sales include: political and economic instability, including weak conditions in the worlds economies; accounts receivable collection; export controls; changes in legal and regulatory requirements; policy changes affecting the markets for our products; changes in tax laws and tariffs; trade duties; and exchange rate fluctuations (which may affect sales to international customers and the value of profits earned on export sales when converted into dollars). Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our results for the period in which they occur. Risks Associated with Retirement Benefits. At December 31, 2010, our U.S. qualified defined benefit plan was fully funded, and we are not required to make any contribution to this plan during 2011. However, we may be required to fund the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan in the years beyond 2011 depending upon the value of plan investments and obligations in the future and 11 Table of Contents changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding. Depending on the timing and amount, a requirement that we fund our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Associated with Acquisition and Disposition Strategies. We intend to continue to strategically position our businesses in order to improve our ability to compete. Strategies we employ to accomplish this may include seeking new or expanding existing specialty market niches for our products, expanding our global presence, acquiring businesses complementary to existing strengths and continually evaluating the performance and strategic fit of our existing business units. From time to time, management holds discussions with management of other companies to explore acquisition, joint ventures, and other business combination opportunities as well as possible business unit dispositions. As a result, the relative makeup of the businesses comprising our Company is subject to change. Acquisitions, joint ventures, and other business combinations involve various inherent risks, such as: assessing accurately the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition or other transaction candidates; the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; our ability to achieve identified financial and operating synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; and unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquisition or other transaction. International acquisitions and other transactions could be affected by export controls, exchange rate fluctuations, domestic and foreign political conditions and a deterioration in domestic and foreign economic conditions. Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Insurance. We have maintained various forms of insurance, including insurance covering claims related to our properties and risks associated with our operations. Our existing property and liability insurance coverages contain exclusions and limitations on coverage. From time to time, in connection with renewals of insurance, we have experienced additional exclusions and limitations on coverage, larger self insured retentions and deductibles and significantly higher premiums. As a result, in the future our insurance coverage may not cover claims to the extent that it has in the past and the costs that we incur to procure insurance may increase significantly, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Political and Social Turmoil. The war on terrorism and recent political and social turmoil could put pressure on economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. These political, social and economic conditions could make it difficult for us, our suppliers and our customers to forecast accurately and plan future business activities, and could adversely affect the financial condition of our suppliers and customers and affect customer decisions as to the amount and timing of purchases from us. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Associated with Government Contracts. Some of our operating companies perform contractual work directly for the U.S. Government. Various claims (whether based on U.S. Government or Company audits and investigations or otherwise) could be asserted against us related to our U.S. Government contract work. Depending on the circumstances and the outcome, such proceedings could result in fines, penalties, compensatory and treble damages or the cancellation or suspension of payments under one or more U.S. Government contracts. Under government regulations, a company, or one or more of its operating divisions or units, can also be suspended or debarred from government contracts based on the results of investigations. Currently, there is no material portion of our business with the U.S. Government which might be subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. Government. Risks Associated With Our Pending Acquisition of Ladish Co., Inc. (Ladish) Combining the businesses of ATI and Ladish may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, which may adversely affect our results and affect adversely the value of our stock following the merger. We have entered into a merger agreement to acquire Ladish because we believe that the acquisition will be beneficial to ATI and its stockholders. The success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of ATI and Ladish. To realize these anticipated benefits, we must successfully combine the businesses of ATI and Ladish in an efficient and effective manner. If we are not able to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of our common stock may be affected adversely. Specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating the operations of Ladish into our operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger include, among other things: integrating and optimizing the utilization of the properties and equipment of ATI and Ladish; integrating the sales and information technology systems of ATI and Ladish; and 12 Table of Contents conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the companies. Integration efforts will also divert management attention and resources. An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect upon the revenues, level of our expenses and operating results, which may affect adversely the value of our common stock after the completion of the acquisition. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. Actual synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than what we expect and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If we are not able to adequately address these challenges, we may be unable to successfully integrate Ladishs operations into ours, or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration of the two companies. Any delay in completing the acquisition of Ladish may substantially reduce the benefits that we expect to be obtained from the acquisition. The acquisition of Ladish is subject to a number of conditions beyond the control of ATI and Ladish that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. We cannot predict whether or when the conditions required to complete the acquisition will be satisfied. Moreover, each of ATI and Ladish may terminate the merger agreement if the acquisition is not consummated by June 30, 2011. Any delay in completing the acquisition may materially adversely affect the synergies and other benefits that we expect to achieve if the acquisition and the integration of the companies respective businesses are completed within the expected timeframe. Our stock price and business may be adversely affected if the acquisition of Ladish is not completed. If the acquisition is not completed, we will be required to pay certain costs incurred by us relating to the acquisition, whether or not the acquisition is completed, such as fees and expenses of our advisors, litigation related expenses and printing fees. Also, matters relating to the acquisition may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us as an independent company. In addition, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our employees, customers, suppliers and other business partners. We are subject to litigation related to the acquisition and could be subject to additional litigation related to any failure to complete the merger, or to enforcement proceedings commenced against us to perform our obligations under the merger agreement. If the acquisition is not completed, we cannot assure you that the risks described above will not materialize and will not materially affect our business, financial results and stock prices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our principal domestic facilities for our high performance metals include titanium sponge production, melting operations, and production facilities that include processing and finishing operations. Titanium sponge production is located at Rowley, UT and Albany, OR. Domestic melting operations are located in Monroe, NC, Bakers, NC, and Lockport, NY (vacuum induction melting, vacuum arc re melt, electro slag re melt, plasma melting); Richland, WA (electron beam melting); and Albany, OR (vacuum arc re melt). Production of high performance metals, most of which are in long product form, takes place at our domestic facilities in Monroe, NC, Lockport, NY, Richburg, SC, Albany, OR, and Oakdale, PA. Our production of exotic alloys takes place at facilities located in Albany, OR, Huntsville, AL, and Frackville, PA. Our principal domestic locations for melting stainless steel and other flat rolled specialty metals are located in Brackenridge, Midland and Latrobe, PA. Hot rolling of material is performed at our domestic facilities in Brackenridge, Washington and Houston, PA. Finishing of our flat rolled products takes place at our domestic facilities located in Brackenridge, Bagdad, Vandergrift, Midland and Washington, PA, and in Wallingford and Waterbury, CT, New Castle, IN, New Bedford, MA, and Louisville, OH. We previously announced plans to construct a new advanced specialty metals hot rolling and processing facility for our Flat Rolled Products business segment at our existing Brackenridge, PA site. This investment, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2013, is designed to 13 Table of Contents produce exceptional quality, thinner, and wider hot rolled coils at reduced cost with shorter lead times and require lower working capital requirements. Our principal domestic facilities for the production of our engineered products are located in Nashville, TN, Huntsville, Grant and Gurley, AL, Houston, TX, and Waynesboro, PA (tungsten powder, tungsten carbide materials and carbide cutting tools and threading systems). Other domestic facilities in this segment are located in Portland, IN and Lebanon, KY (carbon alloy steel forgings); LaPorte, IN and Alpena, MI (grey and ductile iron castings), and southwestern Pennsylvania (precision metals finishing services). Substantially all of our properties are owned, and four of our properties are subject to mortgages or similar encumbrances securing borrowings under certain industrial development authority financings. We also own or lease facilities in a number of foreign countries, including France, Germany, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and the Peoples Republic of China. We own and or lease and operate facilities for melting and re melting, machining and bar mill operations, laboratories and offices located in Sheffield, England. Through our STAL joint venture, we operate facilities for finishing Precision Rolled Strip products in the Xin Zhuang Industrial Zone, Shanghai, China. Our executive offices, located in PPG Place in Pittsburgh, PA, are leased. Although our facilities vary in terms of age and condition, we believe that they have been well maintained and are in sufficient condition for us to carry on our activities. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In a letter dated May 20, 2004, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) informed a subsidiary of the Company that it alleges that the company and forty other potentially responsible parties (PRPs) are not in compliance with a 2003 Unilateral Administrative Order (UAO) issued to the company and the PRPs for the South El Monte Operable Unit of the San Gabriel Valley (California) Superfund Site, a multi part area wide groundwater cleanup. At that time, the EPA indicated that it may take action to enforce the UAO and collect penalties, as well as reimbursement of the EPAs costs associated with the site. Since that time, the PRPs mediated with the EPA to resolve their obligations under the UAO on both technical and legal grounds, and enforcement of the UAO was stayed. On January 13, 2011, EPA and the California Department of Toxic Substance Control (DTSC) filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against the subsidiary and the remaining PRPs that have not yet settled with EPA. The complaint asserts a cost recovery claim under CERCLA for EPAs and DTSCs past costs as well as future response costs. Settlement discussions between the Company, EPA, DTSC and other PRPs are ongoing. In November 2007, the EPA sent a subsidiary of the Company a Notice of Violation (NOV) alleging that the companys Natrona, PA facility is operating in violation of the Clean Air Act. The notice invited the company to meet with the EPA to discuss a resolution of the NOV. In 2010, the EPA and the subsidiary of the Company came to an agreement and a penalty of $1.6 million was paid. We become involved from time to time in various lawsuits, claims and proceedings relating to the conduct of our current and formerly owned businesses, including those pertaining to product liability, patent infringement, commercial, employment, employee benefits, taxes, environmental, health and safety and occupational disease, and stockholder matters. While we cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit, claim or proceeding, our management believes that the disposition of any pending matters is not likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or liquidity. The resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these matters, including those described above, however, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for that period. Information relating to legal proceedings is included in Note 16. Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and incorporated herein by reference. 14 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Common Stock Prices Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol ATI). At February 14, 2011, there were 4,907 record holders of Allegheny Technologies Incorporated common stock. We paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per share of common stock for each quarter of 2009 and 2010. The ranges of high and low sales prices for shares of our common stock for the periods indicated were as follows: Quarter Ended 2010 March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 High $ 56.23 $ 58.25 $ 53.41 $ 59.41 Low $ 39.00 $ 44.01 $ 39.35 $ 45.19 2009 March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 High $ 31.83 $ 44.09 $ 36.95 $ 46.31 Low $ 16.92 $ 21.22 $ 25.80 $ 29.62 Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Set forth below is information regarding the Companys stock repurchases during the period covered by this report, including purchases under ATIs publicly announced share repurchase program described below, and also including shares repurchased by ATI from employees to satisfy employee owed taxes on share based payments. ATIs Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program of $500 million on November 1, 2007. Repurchases of Company common stock are made in the open market or in unsolicited or privately negotiated transactions. Share repurchases are funded from internal cash flow and cash on hand. The number of shares purchased, and the timing of the purchases, are based on several factors, including other investment opportunities, the level of cash balances, and general business conditions. As of December 31, 2010, 6,837,000 shares of common stock had been purchased under this program at a cost of $339.5 million. All of these purchases were made in the open market. There were no share repurchases under this program in 2009 or 2010. Total Number of Shares Approximate Dollar Value Purchased as Part of of Shares that May Yet Be Total Number of Shares Average Price Publicly Announced Purchased Under the Plans Period Purchased Paid per Share Plans or Programs or Programs January 1 31, 2010 17,097 $ 41.95 $ 160,505,939 February 1 28, 2010 160,505,939 March 1 31, 2010 160,505,939 Quarter ended March 31, 2010 17,097 41.95 160,505,939 April 1 30, 2010 160,505,939 May 1 31, 2010 160,505,939 June 1 30, 2010 160,505,939 Quarter ended June 30, 2010 160,505,939 July 1 31, 2010 160,505,939 August 1 31, 2010 160,505,939 September 1 30, 2010 160,505,939 Quarter ended September 30, 2010 160,505,939 October 1 31, 2010 160,505,939 November 1 30, 2010 160,505,939 December 1 31, 2010 2,886 52.78 160,505,939 Quarter ended December 31, 2010 2,886 $ 52.78 $ 160,505,939 15 Table of Contents Cumulative Total Stockholder Return The graph set forth below shows the cumulative total stockholder return (i.e., price change plus reinvestment of dividends) on our common stock from December 31, 2005 through December 31, 2010 as compared to the SP 500 Index and a Peer Group of companies. We believe the Peer Group of companies, which is defined below, is representative of companies in our industry that serve similar markets during the applicable periods. The total stockholder return for the Peer Group is weighted according to the respective issuers stock market capitalization at the beginning of each period. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2005. Base Period Company / Index Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 ATI 100.00 252.90 242.32 72.73 130.43 162.98 SP 500 Index 100.00 115.79 122.16 76.96 97.33 111.99 Peer Group 100.00 134.46 183.33 78.38 111.84 129.10 Source: Standard Poors Peer Group companies for the cumulative five year total return period ended December 31, 2010 were as follows: AK Steel Holding Corp. ALCOA Inc. Brush Engineered Materials Carpenter Technology Corp. Castle (A M) Co. Commercial Metals Gerdau Ameristeel Corp. * Kennametal Inc. Ladish Co. Inc. Nucor Corp. Precision Castparts Corp. Reliance Steel Aluminum Co. RTI International Metals Inc. Schnitzer Steel Industries CL A Steel Dynamics Inc. Timken Co. Titanium Metals Corp. United States Steel Corp. Universal Stainless Alloy Products Worthington Industries * included through August 2010 16 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth selected volume, price and financial information for ATI. The financial information has been derived from our audited financial statements included elsewhere in this report for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008. The historical selected financial information may not be indicative of our future performance and should be read in conjunction with the information contained in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain statements contained in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are forward looking statements. Actual results or performance could differ materially from those encompassed within such forward looking statements as a result of various factors, including those described below. Net income and net income per share amounts referenced below are attributable to Allegheny Technologies Incorporated. Overview of 2010 Financial Performance We view 2010 as a transition year from the global recession of 2009 to the resumption of secular growth trends in our global markets. Net income attributable to ATI for the full year 2010 increased to $70.7 million, or $0.72 per share, compared to $31.7 million, or $0.32 per share, for 2009. Sales in 2010 increased 33% to $4.05 billion compared to $3.05 billion for 2009. Direct international sales for 2010 increased $333.4 million and represented 32% of our total sales. For 2010, the Flat Rolled Products segment generated 59%, the High Performance Metals generated 34%, and the Engineered Products segment generated 7% of our direct international sales. Our 2010 results reflect ATIs position as a globally focused, diversified high value specialty metals company with strong cash flow and liquidity, and a solid balance sheet. The aerospace and defense market and the global infrastructure markets, specifically oil and gas, chemical process industry, and electrical energy, and the medical market have been driving our performance for the last several years. For 2010, 25% of our sales were to the aerospace and defense market, 19% to the oil and gas markets and the chemical process industry, 17% to the electrical energy market, and 6% to the medical market. These major high value global markets represented 67% of ATIs 2010 sales. In our High Performance Metals segment, year over year sales increased 3% to $1.34 billion, due primarily to improved demand from the commercial aerospace jet engine market, as the supply chain adjusted to increasing aircraft production schedules and the aeroengine aftermarket improved as a result of increased flight activity. In addition, demand from the medical market for implants and imaging equipment increased by 36%. The improvement in these markets was partially offset by lower demand for our materials from the chemical processing and nuclear energy markets. Operating profit for the High Performance Metals segment was $257.8 million, a 10% increase compared to 2009, due primarily to higher shipments for most of our products and the benefits from our gross cost reductions, which were partially offset by lower average base selling prices as a result of a more competitive pricing environment for our nickel based and specialty alloys and our titanium and titanium alloys. Start up and idle facility costs of $55.8 million negatively impacted 2010 results. The start up costs relate mostly to our Rowley, UT premium titanium sponge facility. The facility is operational and producing sponge, as we work on standardizing the process and improving yields as part of the orderly production ramp up. Idle facility costs relate mostly to our Albany, OR titanium sponge facility, which is positioned to be back in production when warranted by market conditions. 18 Table of Contents In our Flat Rolled Products segment, sales increased 54% to $2.34 billion primarily as a result of increased product shipments due to improvement in the global economy and higher raw material surcharges. Total product shipments increased 30% for the full year 2010 with shipments of standard stainless products improving 35% and demand for high value products improving 24%. Volatile raw material costs and the resulting impact on surcharges affected customer buying behavior during the year as they managed inventory levels and the timing of purchases. Operating profit for the Flat Rolled Products segment increased to $85.9 million, a 20% increase compared to 2009. The improvement in 2010 operating profit was due primarily to higher shipments and the benefits from our gross cost reduction efforts. Operating results for 2010 were negatively impacted by a $70.7 million LIFO inventory valuation charge as a result of higher raw material costs compared to a LIFO inventory valuation benefit of $60.8 million recognized in 2009. In our Engineered Products segment, 2010 sales increased 56% to $371.8 million primarily due to increased demand from all the major markets for our products: oil and gas, transportation, construction and mining, and cutting tools. The significant sales increase resulted in an operating profit of $12.8 million for 2010 compared to an operating loss of $23.8 million for 2009. Results for 2009 included idle facility and workforce reduction costs of $5.7 million. For 2010, total segment operating profit increased 26% to $356.5 million compared to $282.2 million for 2009. During 2010, we strengthened our positions in key global growth markets, continued to enhance our manufacturing capabilities, reduced costs, and maintained our strong balance sheet. We also realized continued success in implementing the ATI Business System, which is continuing to drive lean manufacturing throughout our operations. Our accomplishments during 2010 from these important efforts included: Continued growth in our global market presence as direct international sales increased $333.4 million to represent 32% of total sales. We believe at least 50% of ATIs 2010 sales were driven by global markets when we consider exports by our customers. Continued improvement in our positions with key customers in the aerospace, oil and gas, electrical energy, and medical markets as we entered into new long term agreements for our Mission Critical Metallics , to reduce their supply uncertainty. In December 2010, our industrial titanium joint venture, Uniti LLC, announced it had been chosen to supply a significant portion of the commercially pure (CP) titanium to be used in the worlds largest seawater desalination plant being built in Ras Az Zawr, Saudi Arabia. Uniti expects to supply between 5.5 million and 6.0 million pounds of CP titanium over the course of 2011. Continued expansion of our industry leading technology portfolio by making important research and development investments. Our new products are gaining acceptance in the marketplace and we are particularly pleased with the acceptance of ATI 425 alloy, an innovative new titanium alloy, ATI 718 Plus alloy, our groundbreaking nickel based superalloy, and our ATI 500 MIL alloy which is the first new armor plate product released to the market in over 40 years. These products are aimed at enabling customers to manufacture near net shapes more quickly and at reduced costs. During 2010, we successfully concluded a year long program to characterize the mechanical properties of ATI 425 alloy for qualification in aerospace applications and made progress in commercializing this alloy for armor and defense applications where light weight, strength and formability are critical. In addition during 2010, we entered into a long term agreement to supply ATI 718 Plus alloy for use in legacy, next generation, and future jet engines. We continued to realize significant benefits from our strategic focus on key high value specialty products, including titanium and titanium alloys, nickel based alloys and specialty alloys, exotic alloys, and grain oriented electrical steel. In 2010, sales of these key high value products represented 50% of our total sales. We continued to build a foundation for profitable growth. We significantly increased strategic capital investments in our businesses to support the expected long term growth in our markets, especially for titanium and titanium alloys, nickel based alloys and superalloys, and vacuum melted specialty alloys. During the past seven years, we have invested $2.1 billion, of which $219 million was spent in 2010, to expand our titanium sponge production, and our melting, rolling, finishing, and product capabilities. During this same seven year period, we have generated over $2.3 billion in cash flow from operations which has allowed us to self fund these important investments. Our recently completed and on going major strategic capital projects include: The expansion of ATIs aerospace quality titanium sponge production capabilities. Titanium sponge is an important raw material used to produce our titanium mill products. Our greenfield premium grade titanium sponge (jet engine rotating parts) facility in Rowley, UT, with a total cost of approximately $500 million, has commenced initial production, and production is planned to systematically increase during 2011. When this Utah sponge facility is fully operational, our total annual sponge production capacity, including our Albany, OR standard grade titanium sponge facility, is projected to be approximately 46 million pounds. These secure supply sources are intended to reduce our purchased titanium sponge and purchased titanium scrap requirements. In addition, the Utah facility will have the infrastructure in place to further expand annual capacity by approximately 18 million pounds, bringing the total annual capacity at that facility to 42 million pounds, if needed. The design and construction of a $260 million titanium alloys and nickel based alloys and superalloys forging facility at our operations in North Carolina. This new facility, which was constructed in phases through 2009, includes a new 10,000 ton 19 Table of Contents press forge and a new 700mm radial forge, both of which we believe are the largest of their kind in the world for producing these types of alloys. The facility also includes billet conditioning and finishing equipment. The conditioning, finishing and inspection assets commenced operations in the 2008 third quarter and the forging equipment commenced operations in the third quarter of 2009. The design and construction of a new advanced specialty metals hot rolling and processing facility at our existing Brackenridge, PA site. The project is estimated to cost approximately $1.1 billion and be completed by the end of 2013. The primary vendors have been selected, and equipment orders placed, with engineering and site preparation for the facility progressing. Our new advanced hot rolling and processing facility is designed to be the most powerful mill in the world for production of specialty metals. It is designed to produce exceptional quality, thinner, and wider hot rolled coils at reduced cost with shorter lead times, and require lower working capital requirements. When completed, we believe ATIs new advanced specialty metals hot rolling and processing facility will provide unsurpassed manufacturing capability and versatility in the production of a wide range of flat rolled specialty metals. We expect improved productivity, lower costs, and higher quality for our diversified product mix of flat rolled specialty metals, including nickel based and specialty alloys, titanium and titanium alloys, zirconium alloys, Precision Rolled Strip products, and stainless sheet and coiled plate products. It is designed to roll and process exceptional quality hot bands of up to 78.62 inches, or 2 meters, wide. In connection with the new advanced specialty metals hot rolling and processing facility, in 2010 we completed the consolidation of our Natrona, PA grain oriented electrical steel melt shop into ATIs Brackenridge, PA melt shop. This consolidation is expected to improve the overall productivity of ATIs flat rolled grain oriented electrical steel and other stainless and specialty alloys, and reduce the cost of producing slabs and ingots. The investment should also result in significant reduction of particulate emissions. We increased our capacity to produce zirconium products through capital expansions of zirconium sponge production and VAR melting. This new zirconium sponge and melting capacity better positions ATI for the current and expected growth in demand from the nuclear energy and chemical process industry markets. We believe ATI is now the worlds largest producer of critical reactor grade zirconium sponge for the nuclear energy market. Our Chinese joint venture company known as Shanghai STAL Precision Stainless Steel Company Limited (STAL), in which ATI has a 60% interest, completed in 2009 an expansion of its Precision Rolled Strip operations in Shanghai, China which nearly triples STALs precision rolling and slitting capacity. This expansion better positions STAL to benefit from Chinas electronics and telecommunications manufacturing market for cell phones and smartphones, as well as Chinas rapidly growing automotive parts manufacturing market. We believe STAL is the largest producer of these thin strip products in China and that our new facility gives us a significant competitive advantage in this growing market. In October 2009, we acquired the assets of Crucible Compaction Metals and Crucible Research, a western Pennsylvania producer of advanced powder metal products, for approximately $39 million. The acquired assets, which have been named ATI Powder Metals, expand our specialty metals product portfolio. Powder metals are used in the production of complex alloy chemistries, typically when conventional processes cannot be used. Powder metals represent a growth opportunity for ATI as more powder metals are used in the aerospace industry for the latest generation of jet engines and for the production of near net shape parts. Additional markets for these powder metals products include oil and gas, electrical energy, and medical. In 2010, we expanded our capabilities to serve the oil and gas and aero engine markets with the construction of a $16 million precision machining center at ATIs Sheffield, U.K. operation which enables us to provide our customers with near net shape products. We currently plan to spend $300 million to $350 million for capital expenditures in 2011 and we expect capital spending to remain in this range for each of the next few years as we complete our strategic projects. We continued to expand our growth opportunities with the announcement in November 2010 of an agreement to acquire Ladish Co., Inc. for an aggregate fully distributed equity value of approximately $778 million ($24.00 per share in cash, or $389 million, and 0.4556 of a share of ATI common stock for each share of Ladish common stock). The acquisition of Ladish, which we expect will close in the spring of 2011, will enable us to combine their technologically advanced forging, investment casting, and machining capabilities with our unique industry leading product portfolio to create a more integrated, stable and sustainable supply chain for aerospace, defense and industrial markets. We realized significant cash generation in 2010 of which we invested $319 million in managed working capital to meet the needs of the improving business activity, invested $219 million in strategic capital expenditures, and returned $71 million to stockholders in cash dividends. Cash on hand at the end of 2010 was $432.3 million, a decrease of $276.5 million from year end 2009. 20 Table of Contents We continued to maintain our strong balance sheet. At the end of 2010, our U.S. defined benefit pension plan was fully funded and our percentages of net debt to total capitalization and total debt to total capital were 23.6% and 34.3%, respectively. In January 2011, we sold $500 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.95% Senior Notes due 2021 and realized net proceeds of $496 million. We intend to use these proceeds to finance the cash portion of the merger consideration in the pending acquisition of Ladish Co., Inc. with the remainder to be used for general corporate purposes. We continued to focus on safety across ATIs operations. In 2010, through the efforts of our employees, ATI Allegheny Ludlum achieved an impressive milestone: one year since the last lost time injury was sustained. Across our company, the OSHA Total Recordable Incident Rate was 2.88% and our Lost Time Case Rate was 0.53 per 200,000 hours worked. We realized continued success from the ATI Business System, which continues to drive lean manufacturing throughout our operations. In addition to the safety performance discussed above, we realized $135 million in gross cost reductions in 2010, which exceeded our goal of $100 million. We have targeted additional gross cost reductions of at least $100 million in 2011. As we begin 2011, our key global markets are showing signs of strong growth. Our outlook for commercial aerospace remains bullish. We expect to benefit from increased production schedules for legacy aircraft and increased demand for aftermarket jet engine spare parts. In addition, both Boeing and Airbus have reported that they are considering further single aisle aircraft production increases beyond 2012. Demand for our products generally leads a change to a production build schedule by approximately 6 to 12 months. We expect the global oil and gas and chemical process industries to remain strong due to increased demand from offshore oil and gas projects, large sour gas pipelines, desalination projects, and increasing orders for chemical processing projects from several areas of the world. In the electrical energy market, we expect demand for our grain oriented electrical steel for power distribution to remain essentially flat. We also expect demand from the nuclear electrical energy market to remain flat in 2011, although growth opportunities exist for new nuclear plants under construction over the next several years. The medical market reached a record of nearly 6% of sales in 2010. We expect strong demand to continue in 2011. We also expect to benefit from our ongoing market and product development activities aimed at introducing innovative new ATI alloys and extending our reach into our key global markets with product forms that are new to ATI. We intend to use these improving market conditions to continue to positively differentiate ATI as a uniquely positioned, diversified, technology driven global specialty metals producer. Results of Operations Sales were $4.05 billion in 2010, $3.05 billion in 2009 and $5.31 billion in 2008. Direct international sales represented approximately 32% of 2010 sales, 31% of 2009 sales and 28% of 2008 sales. Segment operating profit was $356.5 million in 2010, $282.2 million in 2009, and $944.9 million in 2008. Our measure of segment operating profit, which we use to analyze the performance and results of our business segments, excludes income taxes, corporate expenses, net interest expense, retirement benefit expense, other costs net of gains on asset sales and restructuring costs, if any. We believe segment operating profit, as defined, provides an appropriate measure of controllable operating results at the business segment level. Income before tax was $125.7 million in 2010, $64.9 million in 2009, and $867.7 million in 2008. Results in 2009 included after tax charges of $17.0 million, or $0.17 per share, related to second quarter 2009 actions to retire debt and the tax consequences of our $350 million voluntary pension contribution. Net income attributable to ATI was $70.7 million for 2010, $31.7 million for 2009, and $565.9 million for 2008. We operate in three business segments: High Performance Metals, Flat Rolled Products and Engineered Products. These segments represented the following percentages of our total revenues and segment operating profit for the years indicated: 2010 2009 2008 Operating Operating Operating Revenue Profit Revenue Profit (Loss) Revenue Profit High Performance Metals 33 % 72 % 43 % 83 % 37 % 58 % Flat Rolled Products 58 % 24 % 49 % 25 % 55 % 40 % Engineered Products 9 % 4 % 8 % (8 %) 8 % 2 % 21 Table of Contents Information with respect to our business segments is presented below and in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. High Performance Metals (In millions) 2010% Change 2009% Change 2008 Sales to external customers $ 1,337.5 3 % $ 1,300.0 (33 %) $ 1,944.9 Operating profit 257.8 10 % 234.7 (56 %) 539.0 Operating profit as a percentage of sales 19.3 % 18.1 % 27.7 % Direct international sales as a percentage of sales 32.8 % 32.8 % 30.0 % Our High Performance Metals segment produces, converts and distributes a wide range of high performance alloys, including titanium and titanium based alloys, nickel and cobalt based alloys and superalloys, exotic alloys such as zirconium, hafnium, niobium, nickel titanium, and their related alloys, and other specialty metals, primarily in long product forms such as ingot, billet, bar, rod, wire, shapes and rectangles, seamless tube and castings. These products are designed for the high performance requirements of such major end markets as aerospace and defense, electrical energy, oil and gas, chemical process industry, and medical. The operating units in this segment are ATI Allvac, ATI Allvac Ltd (U.K.), ATI Wah Chang and ATI Powder Metals. 2010 Compared to 2009 Sales for the High Performance Metals segment for 2010 increased 3% to $1.34 billion, due primarily to improved demand from the commercial aerospace jet engine market, as the supply chain adjusted to increasing aircraft production schedules and the aeroengine aftermarket improved as a result of increased flight activity. In addition, demand from the medical market for implants and imaging equipment increased by 36%. The improvement in these markets was partially offset by lower demand for our materials from the chemical processing and nuclear energy markets. Shipment volumes increased for titanium mill products and nickel based and specialty alloys, while average base selling prices for these products were lower as a result of a more competitive pricing environment. Direct international sales as percentage of total segment sales were 32.8% for both periods. Comparative information on the segments products for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was: For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009% Change Volume (000s pounds): Titanium mill products 25,457 23,588 8 % Nickel based and specialty alloys 37,272 32,562 14 % Exotic alloys 4,382 5,067 (14 %) Average prices (per pound): Titanium mill products $ 19.37 $ 20.92 (7 %) Nickel based and specialty alloys $ 14.03 $ 14.43 (3 %) Exotic alloys $ 60.68 $ 57.79 5 % Aerospace represents a significant market for our High Performance Metals segment, especially for premium quality specialty metals used in the manufacture of jet engines for the original equipment and spare parts markets. In 2010, the aerospace market represented 58% of the revenues of the segment with products for jet engines representing the majority of the sales. In addition, we have become a larger supplier of specialty metals used in airframe construction. In 2010, sales of our material into the airframe market represented approximately 36% of our aerospace market sales. During 2010, we successfully concluded a year long program to characterize the mechanical properties of ATI 425 alloy, a new patented cold rollable titanium alloy, for aerospace applications qualification. In addition during 2010, we entered into a long term agreement to supply ATI 718 Plus alloy, a new patented nickel based superalloy, for use in legacy, next generation, and future jet engines. 22 Table of Contents Over the past several years, we have entered into long term agreements with our customers for Mission Critical Metallics to reduce their supply uncertainty. In September 2009, we signed a ten year sourcing agreement with Rolls Royce plc for the supply of nickel based superalloy disc quality products for commercial jet engine applications with potential revenue estimated to be between $750 million and $1 billion. In January 2007, we announced a long term sourcing agreement with GE Aviation for the supply of premium titanium alloys, nickel based superalloys, and vacuum melted specialty alloys products for commercial and military jet engine applications. Historical and anticipated revenues under this agreement plus ATI Allvacs direct sales to GE Aviation for the period 2007 through 2011 could exceed $2 billion. In addition, in October 2006 we announced a long term agreement with The Boeing Company to supply titanium alloys products for Boeings aircraft airframes and structural components, including Boeings 787 Dreamliner. Total revenues under this contract may be as much as $2.5 billion for the years 2007 through 2015. This long term agreement includes both long product forms which are manufactured within the High Performance Metals segment, and a significant amount of plate products which are manufactured utilizing assets of both the High Performance Metals and Flat Rolled Products segments. Revenues and profits associated with these titanium mill products covered by the long term agreement are included primarily in the results for the High Performance Metals segment. The commercial aerospace markets use of titanium alloys is expected to increase significantly as new aircraft airframe designs use a larger percentage of titanium alloys. For example, the new Boeing 787 Dreamliner airframe (excluding engines) is expected to use significantly more titanium and titanium alloys than any previous commercial aircraft airframe. New aircraft designs from Airbus, the A380 and A350 XWB, and from defense contractors are also expected to utilize a greater percentage of titanium alloys. Given the significant current backlogs of Boeing and Airbus, as well as the engine manufacturers, this increasing demand for titanium alloys mill products is expected to last for at least the next five years. However, The Boeing Company has experienced production difficulties with the construction of the new Boeing 787, which have delayed the planned first delivery of this new aircraft. Boeing has announced an expected first delivery date of the 787 as the third calendar quarter of 2011, a delay of approximately 3 plus years. These production difficulties, along with decreased demand in the aeroengine aftermarket due to weakness in the global economy in the late 2008 and through 2009, resulted in excess availability of materials in the aerospace supply chain. This excess availability of material had an adverse effect on the demand and selling prices for certain of the materials we produce, especially titanium alloys and nickel based superalloys. This supply condition also resulted in the temporarily idling our Albany, OR titanium sponge facility at the end of July 2009 to adjust our titanium production and inventory levels to market demand. During 2010, aerospace market conditions began to improve as Boeing and Airbus began to ramp up production of legacy single aisle aircraft, such as the 737 and A320, to meet the demand of increasing backlogs for these aircraft. Both Boeing and Airbus have announced future production increases over the next several years for legacy and next generation aircraft which is expected to positively benefit the demand for titanium alloys and nickel based superalloys for both jet engine and airframe applications. Due to manufacturing cycle times, demand for our specialty metals leads the deliveries of new aircraft by between 6 to 12 months. In addition, as our specialty metals are used in rotating components of jet engines, demand for our products for spare parts is impacted by aircraft flight activity and engine refurbishment requirements of U.S. and foreign aviation regulatory authorities. As the number of aircraft in service increases, the need for our materials associated with engine refurbishment is expected to increase. Airline Miles Revenue Passenger (Worldwide, per year, in billions) 70 75 80 85 90 95 00 05 10 286 433 676 849 1176 1396 1887 2311 2734 Source: International Civil Aviation Organization Airline Miles Freight (Worldwide, tons per year, in billions) 70 75 80 85 90 95 00 05 10 8 13 20 27 40 57 81 98 108 Source: International Civil Aviation Organization 23 Table of Contents Commercial Aircraft Engines in Service (Worldwide, per year) 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 37,318 38,913 39,974 41,069 42,297 43,684 44,611 45,858 47,083 48,225 49,503 50,714 52,240 53,828 55,400 57,924 Source: Airline Monitor New Commercial Aircraft Engine Builds (Worldwide, per year) 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2,312 2,460 2,024 1,900 1,918 1,910 2,088 2,192 2,232 2,372 2,356 2,516 2,842 3,040 3,220 3,300 Source: Airline Monitor 24 Table of Contents Commercial Military Jet Aircraft Build Rate and Forecast (Worldwide, per year) 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Boeing deliveries 491 527 381 281 285 290 398 441 375 481 462 500 620 670 705 670 Airbus deliveries 311 325 303 305 320 378 434 453 483 498 510 548 601 605 605 610 Regional Jet del. 293 325 300 315 312 260 185 183 225 183 135 172 149 185 240 320 Military A/C del. 130 115 128 160 243 243 241 226 231 211 275 287 244 233 244 278 Total deliveries 1,225 1,292 1,112 1,061 1,160 1,171 1,258 1,303 1,314 1,373 1,382 1,507 1,614 1,693 1,794 1,878 Airline revenue passenger miles and freight miles increased 8% and 19%, respectively, in 2010 compared to 2009, recovering from decreases of 4.1% and 13.0%, respectively, in 2009 and exceeding previous peaks in 2008. Since 2004, airline revenue passenger miles and freight miles have compound annual growth rates of 4.2% and 2.1%, respectively, according to the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) data. Based on January 2011 forecasts, the ICAO expects growth of at least 5% annually, for several years, based on the demand for passenger and freight travel from developing economies, especially in Asia and the Middle East, and expected continuing economic growth in the rest of the world. New commercial and military jet aircraft deliveries have increased 3.4% annually since 2005. Independent forecasts from both Airline Monitor and Forecast International project over 6% compound growth of commercial and military jet aircraft deliveries for the next 5 years. High Performance Metals segment operating profit for 2010 increased 10% to $257.8 million compared to 2009 primarily due to higher shipments of titanium and nickel based and specialty steel alloys, which were partially offset by lower average selling prices for most of our products, lower exotic alloys shipment volume, and $55.8 million for idle facility and start up costs, mainly involving the primary titanium sponge operations. In addition, operating profit over the past several years has been affected by volatile raw 25 Table of Contents material costs. Titanium and titanium scrap prices decreased slightly in 2010, following significant declines in 2009 and 2008. These and other raw material costs are largely recovered in product selling prices through raw material indices which attempt to match purchased material costs with shipments. However, in an environment of rapidly declining or increasing costs, these raw material indices included in product selling prices may not completely match related raw material costs due to the long manufacturing times for some of our products. Results for 2010 included a LIFO inventory valuation reserve benefit of $16.3 million. The rapid decrease in raw material costs in late 2008 had a significant negative effect on 2009 operating profit as shipments produced with raw material purchased earlier in the year at higher costs were sold based upon raw material indices which reflected lower raw material prices. These negative impacts on operating profit in 2009 were offset by LIFO inventory valuation reserve benefits of $33.0 million. We continued to aggressively reduce costs in 2010. Gross cost reductions, before the effects of inflation, totaled approximately $68 million. Major areas of gross cost reductions included $28 million from procurement savings, $34 million from operating efficiencies, and $6 million from reductions in compensation and benefit expenses. 2009 Compared to 2008 Sales for the High Performance Metals segment for 2009 decreased 33% to $1.30 billion, due primarily to reduced demand from the aerospace market, as the supply chain adjusted to aircraft production delays, and decreased demand from the aeroengine aftermarket and the chemical processing market as a result of the weak global economy. The declines in these markets were partially offset by increased demand for our materials from the defense and nuclear energy markets. Direct international sales as percentage of total segment sales increased to 32.8% primarily due to sales of exotic alloys. Comparative information on the segments products for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was: For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % Change Volume (000s pounds): Titanium mill products 23,588 32,530 (27 %) Nickel based and specialty alloys 32,562 42,525 (23 %) Exotic alloys 5,067 5,473 (7 %) Average prices (per pound): Titanium mill products $ 20.92 $ 25.60 (18 %) Nickel based and specialty alloys $ 14.43 $ 18.14 (20 %) Exotic alloys $ 57.79 $ 48.53 19 % High Performance Metals segment operating profit for 2009 decreased 56% to $234.7 million compared to 2008 primarily due to lower shipments, lower average selling prices for most of our products, and $31.2 million for idle facility, workforce reduction, and start up costs. Improved margins on our exotic alloys, and benefits from our gross cost reduction efforts partially offset the profitability decline. In addition, operating profit over the past several years has been affected by volatile raw material costs. Titanium and titanium scrap prices decreased significantly in 2009 and 2008. The rapid decrease in raw material costs in late 2008 had a significant negative effect on operating profit as shipments produced with raw material purchased earlier in the year at higher costs were sold based upon raw material indices which reflected lower raw material prices. These negative impacts on operating profit were offset by LIFO inventory valuation reserve benefits of $33.0 million in 2009 and $70.6 million in 2008. We continued to aggressively reduce costs in 2009. Gross cost reductions, before the effects of inflation, totaled approximately $81 million. Major areas of gross cost reductions included $33 million from procurement savings, $30 million from operating efficiencies, $11 million from other fixed cost savings, and $7 million from reductions in compensation and benefit expenses. Cost reductions include savings from reducing the size of the workforce by approximately 17%. Flat Rolled Products (In millions) 2010 % Change 2009 % Change 2008 Sales to external customers $ 2,338.5 54 % $ 1,516.1 (48 %) $ 2,909.1 Operating profit 85.9 20 % 71.3 (81 %) 377.4 Operating profit as a percentage of sales 3.7 % 4.7 % 13.0 % Direct international sales as a percentage of sales 32.4 % 30.0 % 26.8 % Our Flat Rolled Products segment produces, converts and distributes stainless steel, nickel based alloys, specialty alloys, and titanium and titanium based alloys, in a variety of product forms including plate, sheet, engineered strip, and Precision Rolled Strip products, as well as grain oriented electrical steel sheet. The major end markets for our flat rolled products are electrical energy, oil and gas, chemical processing, automotive, food processing equipment and appliances, construction and mining, electronics, 26 Table of Contents communication equipment and computers, and aerospace and defense. The operations in this segment are ATI Allegheny Ludlum, our 60% interest in the Chinese joint venture company known as Shanghai STAL Precision Stainless Steel Company Limited (STAL), and our 50% interest in the industrial titanium joint venture known as Uniti LLC. The remaining 40% interest in STAL is owned by the Baosteel Group, a state authorized investment company whose equity securities are publicly traded in the Peoples Republic of China. The financial results of STAL are consolidated into the segments operating results with the 40% interest of our minority partner recognized in the consolidated statement of income as net income attributable to noncontrolling interests. The remaining 50% interest in Uniti LLC is held by VSMPO, a Russian producer of titanium, aluminum, and specialty steel products. We account for the results of the Uniti joint venture using the equity method since we do not have a controlling interest. 2010 Compared to 2009 Sales for the Flat Rolled Products segment for 2010 were $2.34 billion, or 54% higher than 2009, due primarily to increased shipments, higher raw material surcharges, and improved base selling prices for stainless products. Total product shipments increased 30% for 2010, as demand for high value and standard stainless products improved, and direct international sales continued to increase. Comparative information on the segments products for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was: For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % Change Volume (000s pounds): High value 454,874 367,195 24 % Standard 642,255 474,950 35 % Total Flat Rolled Products 1,097,129 842,145 30 % Average prices (per pound): High value $ 2.83 $ 2.49 14 % Standard $ 1.62 $ 1.22 33 % Total Flat Rolled Products $ 2.12 $ 1.77 20 % The average transaction prices to customers, which include the effect of raw material surcharges, increased by 20% in 2010, to $2.12 per pound. Direct international sales as a percentage of total segment sales increased to 32.4% in 2010, surpassing the previous historic high of 30% in 2009. Sales of standard products, primarily stainless steel cold roll sheet, represented the largest growth area of international sales. Our Flat Rolled Products segment high value product shipments, which include engineered strip, Precision Rolled Strip, super stainless steel, nickel based alloys, specialty alloys, titanium, and grain oriented electrical steel products, increased 24% in 2010 while average transaction prices for these high value products increased 14%. Demand for our engineered strip and Precision Rolled Strip improved throughout 2010 as most markets continued to improve. Demand for our titanium products from the chemical process industry and oil and gas markets rebounded from low 2009 levels, and shipments of titanium and ATI produced UNITI titanium products increased 21% to approximately 12.5 million pounds in 2010. Shipments of our grain oriented electrical steel products, while negatively impacted by the downturn in residential and commercial construction, benefited from our long term supply agreements with key customers. Shipments of our standard products, which primarily include stainless steel hot roll and cold roll sheet, and stainless steel plate, increased 35% while average transaction prices for these products increased by 33%. In 2010, consumption in the U.S. of stainless steel strip, sheet and plate products increased by 30%, compared to 2009 consumption, according to the Specialty Steel Institute of North America (SSINA), using annualized November 2010 information. The 2010 annual consumption of 1.25 million tons, although a return to 2008 levels, still reflects below average demand compared to historical periods. 27 Table of Contents Source: SSINA US ADC of Stainless Sheet and Strip (hot rolled and cold rolled) 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 * Millions of Tons 1.90 1.88 1.55 1.58 1.57 1.81 1.62 1.84 1.52 1.25 0.96 1.25 * 2010 represents Nov YTD annualized The majority of our flat rolled products are sold at prices that include surcharges for raw materials, including purchased scrap, that are required to manufacture our products. These raw materials include nickel, iron, chromium, and molybdenum. Nickel, which comprises a significant percentage of our material costs, and where price is influenced by commodity exchange trading, continued to be volatile during 2010. The cost of nickel increased 53% during the first four months of 2010 to an average monthly cost of $11.81 per pound in April 2010, only to decline 25% over the next three months to an average monthly cost of $8.86 in July 2010. During the next last five months of 2010, the cost of nickel increased 23% to a December 2010 average of $10.94 per pound. Our other major raw materials were also volatile during 2010 with chromium increasing almost 50%, and iron and molybdenum each increasing over 40%. Volatility in raw material surcharges affects customer purchasing trends. 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 3.32 2.69 3.26 6.43 6.25 6.09 15.68 11.79 4.39 7.74 10.94 Source: London Metals Exchange 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 85 74 105 173 233 255 229 297 221 275 395 28 Table of Contents 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 0.41 0.29 0.35 0.54 0.69 0.54 0.66 1.71 1.03 0.89 1.33 Source: Platts Metals Week 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 2.23 2.36 3.26 7.26 31.24 26.58 24.78 32.38 9.60 11.38 16.19 Source: Platts Metals Week Operating income was $85.9 million, a 20% increase compared to 2009. The improvement in 2010 operating profit was due primarily to increased shipments, higher average base selling prices for most of our products, $14.3 million lower idle facility costs, and the benefits from our gross cost reduction efforts. These results were partially offset by a LIFO inventory valuation reserve charge of $70.7 million in 2010, due to the significant increases in raw material costs. In 2009, Flat Rolled Products segment results included a LIFO inventory valuation reserve benefit of $60.8 million. We continued to aggressively reduce costs and streamline our flat rolled products operations. In 2010, we achieved gross cost reductions, before the effects of inflation, of approximately $47 million in our Flat Rolled Products segment. Major areas of gross cost reductions included $40 million from procurement savings and operating efficiencies and $7 million from reductions in compensation and benefit expenses. Our melt shop consolidation project, involving the melting of grain oriented electrical steel in our Brackenridge, PA stainless steel melt shop and the closure of the Natrona, PA melt shop is expected to result in considerable cost savings beginning in 2011. 2009 Compared to 2008 Sales for the Flat Rolled Products segment for 2009 were $1.52 billion, or 48% lower than 2008, due primarily to lower raw material surcharges and lower product shipments as a result of the global economic recession. Total product shipments decreased 22% for the full year 2009, as demand for high value and standard stainless products remained at depressed levels. However, shipments of standard stainless products, after reaching a low in the fourth quarter of 2008, increased sequentially during 2009 as service center and other customers started to replenish inventory positions. Comparative information on the segments products for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was: For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % Change Volume (000s pounds): High value 367,195 500,375 (27 %) Standard 474,950 584,389 (19 %) Total Flat Rolled Products 842,145 1,084,764 (22 %) Average prices (per pound): High value $ 2.49 $ 3.26 (24 %) Standard $ 1.22 $ 2.13 (43 %) Total Flat Rolled Products $ 1.77 $ 2.65 (33 %) The average transaction prices to customers, which include the effect of lower average raw material surcharges, decreased by 33% to $1.77 per pound in 2009. Direct international sales as a percentage of total segment sales increased to 30% in 2009, which represented a historic high. While the majority of direct international sales were for high value products, sales of standard products, primarily stainless steel cold roll sheet, are increasing in significance. 29 Table of Contents Our Flat Rolled Products segment high value product shipments, which include engineered strip, Precision Rolled Strip, super stainless steel, nickel based alloys, specialty alloys, titanium, and grain oriented electrical steel products, decreased 27% in 2009 while average transaction prices for these high value products decreased 24%. Demand for our engineered strip and Precision Rolled Strip, while lower than 2008, improved throughout 2009 as customers restocked inventory positions and demand improved from the housing market for energy efficient material. Demand for our titanium products from the chemical process industry and oil and gas markets was negatively impacted weakness in the global economy and uncertainty in financial markets for project financing. Shipments of our grain oriented electrical steel products, while negatively impacted by the downturn in residential and commercial construction, benefited from our long term supply agreements with key customers. Shipments of titanium and ATI produced Uniti titanium products declined 30% to approximately 10.3 million pounds in 2009. Shipments of our standard products, which primarily include stainless steel hot roll and cold roll sheet, and stainless steel plate, decreased 19% while average transaction prices for these products decreased by 43%. In 2009, consumption in the U.S. of stainless steel strip, sheet and plate products decreased by more than 25%, compared to 2008 consumption, according to the SSINA. The 2009 annual consumption of 960 thousand tons was the lowest level in at least 15 years. The majority of our flat rolled products are sold at prices that include surcharges for raw materials, including purchased scrap, that are required to manufacture our products. These raw materials include nickel, iron, chromium, and molybdenum. Nickel, which comprises a significant percentage of our material costs, continued to be volatile during 2009. The cost of nickel increased 103% during the first eight months of 2009 to an average monthly cost of $8.91 per pound in August 2009. During the next four months of 2009, the cost of nickel declined 13% to an average monthly cost of $7.74 per pound in December 2009. Our other major raw materials were also volatile during 2009 with chromium declining 14%, and iron and molybdenum increasing 29% and 19%, respectively. Operating income was $71.3 million, an 81% decrease compared to 2008. The decline in 2009 operating profit was due primarily to lower shipments, lower average base selling prices for most of our products, and idle facility and workforce reduction costs of $19.3 million, which were partially offset by the benefits from our gross cost reduction efforts. In addition, operating profit in 2009 and 2008 was affected by volatile raw material costs. Nickel and nickel bearing scrap, iron scrap, chromium, and molybdenum prices decreased significantly in 2008, especially in the fourth quarter. These material costs are largely recovered in product selling prices through raw material surcharges which attempt to match purchased material costs with shipments. However in an environment of rapidly declining, or increasing costs, these raw material indices included in product selling prices may not completely match our raw material costs due to the long manufacturing cycle times for some of our products. The rapid fall in raw material costs in 2008 had a significant negative effect on operating profit in 2008, and in the first half of 2009, as shipments produced with raw material purchased earlier at higher costs were sold based upon raw material surcharges which reflected lower raw material costs. This negative impact on operating profit was offset by a LIFO inventory valuation reserve benefit of $60.8 million in 2009 and $89.8 million in 2008. We continued to aggressively reduce costs and streamline our flat rolled products operations. In 2009, we achieved gross cost reductions, before the effects of inflation, of approximately $77 million in our Flat Rolled Products segment. Major areas of gross cost reductions included $62 million from procurement savings and operating efficiencies and $15 million from reductions in compensation and benefit expenses. Cost reductions include the savings from reducing the size of the workforce by approximately 14%. Engineered Products (In millions) 2010 % Change 2009 % Change 2008 Sales to external customers $ 371.8 56 % $ 238.8 (48 %) $ 455.7 Operating profit (loss) 12.8 154 % (23.8 ) n/m 20.9 Operating profit (loss) as a percentage of sales 3.4 % (10.0 %) 4.6 % Direct international sales as a percentage of sales 23.6 % 29.3 % 28.5 % Our Engineered Products segment includes the production of tungsten powder, tungsten heavy alloys, tungsten carbide materials and carbide cutting tools. The segment also produces carbon alloy steel impression die forgings, and large grey and ductile iron castings, and provides precision metals processing services. The operations in this segment are ATI Tungsten Materials (formerly ATI Metalworking Products), ATI Portland Forge, ATI Casting Service and ATI Precision Finishing (formerly ATI Rome Metals). The major markets served by our products of the Engineered Products segment include a wide variety of industrial markets including oil and gas, machine and cutting tools, transportation, construction and mining, electrical energy, aerospace and defense, and automotive. 30 Table of Contents 2010 Compared to 2009 Sales for the Engineered Products segment increased 56% to $371.8 million in 2010 as demand continued to improve from the oil and gas, transportation, aerospace, electrical energy, and automotive markets, but remained weak from the wind energy market. The improved demand and better pricing for most products resulted in operating profit of $12.8 million for 2010, compared to an operating loss of $23.8 million for 2009. Operating results were impacted by idle facility costs of $2.7 million for 2010. Results for 2010 included a LIFO inventory valuation reserve charge of $5.8 million due to higher raw material costs. In 2009, the operating loss included idle facility and workforce reduction costs of $5.7 million, and was partially offset by a LIFO benefit of $9.0 million primarily as a result of lower raw material costs. In 2010, we achieved gross cost reductions, before the effects of inflation, of approximately $20 million in our Engineered Products segment. Major areas of gross cost reductions included $13 million from procurement savings and operating efficiencies, and $7 million from lower compensation and benefit expenses. 2009 Compared to 2008 Sales for the Engineered Products segment decreased 48% to $238.8 million in 2009 as the global economic recession severely depressed demand and selling prices of most of our products from all of our major markets. The significant sales decline resulted in an operating loss of $23.8 million for 2009 compared to an operating profit of $20.9 million for 2008. Operating results for 2009 were adversely affected by idle facility and workforce reduction costs of $5.7 million. The decline in profitability was partially offset by a LIFO inventory valuation reserve benefit of $9.0 million primarily as a result of lower raw material costs and the benefits of gross cost reductions. In 2008, operating profit included a LIFO inventory valuation reserve benefit of $8.6 million. In 2009, we achieved gross cost reductions, before the effects of inflation, of approximately $14 million in our Engineered Products segment. Major areas of gross cost reductions included $8 million from procurement savings and operating efficiencies, and $6 million from lower compensation and benefit expenses. Cost reductions include savings associated with reducing the size of the workforce by approximately 36%. Corporate Expenses Corporate expenses were $64.1 million in 2010 compared to $53.1 million in 2009, and $56.8 million in 2008. The increase in corporate expenses year over year was primarily the result of corporate funded RD, costs associated with the planned acquisition of Ladish Co., Inc. and performance based incentive compensation expenses. The decline in corporate expenses in 2009 was primarily due to lower expenses associated with annual and long term incentive compensation programs. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net of interest income and interest capitalization, was $62.7 million for 2010 compared to $19.3 million for 2009 and $3.5 million for 2008. The increase in interest expense in 2010 was due to lower capitalized interest on strategic projects as a result of project completions as well as the full year of interest costs associated with the debt issuances completed in the 2009 second quarter. Interest expense is presented net of interest income of $1.1 million for 2010, $2.1 million for 2009, and $9.8 million for 2008. The decline in interest income over the periods primarily resulted from lower interest rates on invested cash. Capital expenditures associated with strategic investments to expand our production capabilities resulted in interest capitalization in 2010, 2009 and 2008. Interest expense in 2010, 2009, and 2008 was reduced by $12.5 million, $39.0 million, and $25.0 million, respectively, related to interest capitalization on major strategic capital projects. In prior years, we entered into receive fixed, pay floating interest rate swap contracts related to our $300 million, 8.375% 10 year Notes due in 2011 (2011 Notes), which were later settled, resulting in a gain. The settlement gain is being amortized into income as an offset to interest expense over the remaining life of the 2011 Notes. Interest expense decreased by $0.9 million in 2010, $1.3 million in 2009, and $2.0 million in 2008 due to these previously settled interest rate swap agreements. In June 2009, we completed the issuance of $350 million of 9.375% 10 year Senior Notes and a tender offer for the 2011 Notes. As a result of the tender offer, in June 2009 we retired $183.3 million of the 2011 Notes, which resulted in a special charge for debt extinguishment of $9.2 million pre tax, or $5.5 million after tax, in the second quarter 2009. 31 Table of Contents Other Expenses, Net of Gains on Asset Sales Other expenses, net of gains on asset sales, includes charges incurred in connection with closed operations, pretax gains and losses on the sale of surplus real estate, non strategic investments and other assets, and other non operating income or expense. These items are presented primarily in selling and administrative expenses, and in other income in the consolidated statements of income and resulted in net charges of $13.9 million in 2010, $13.8 million in 2009 and $8.5 million in 2008. Other expenses for 2010, 2009 and 2008 primarily related to legal costs associated with closed operations. Retirement Benefit Expense Retirement benefit expense, which includes pension and postretirement medical benefits, decreased in 2010 after increasing in 2009. The decrease in 2010 was primarily due to higher than expected returns on pension plan assets in 2009 and the benefits resulting from our voluntary pension contributions made over the past several years. The increase in retirement benefit expense in 2009 was primarily due to lower returns on plan assets in 2008, which was partially offset by the benefits of voluntary pension contributions made over the past several years. Over the past seven years, we have made $765.2 million of voluntary pension contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan, including $350 million in the second quarter of 2009. Retirement benefit expense was $90.1 million for 2010, $121.9 million for 2009, and $8.4 million for 2008. Retirement benefit expenses are included in both cost of sales and selling and administrative expenses. Retirement benefit expense included in cost of sales and selling and administrative expenses for the years ended 2010, 2009 and 2008 was as follows: (In millions) 2010 2009 2008 Cost of sales $ 64.6 $ 85.4 $ 5.3 Selling and administrative expenses 25.5 36.5 3.1 Total retirement benefit expense $ 90.1 $ 121.9 $ 8.4 Total retirement benefit expense for 2011 is expected to decrease to approximately $77 million, a $13 million reduction from 2010. We expect pension expense to decline to approximately $56.6 million, a decrease of $14.8 million compared to pension expense of $71.4 million in 2010. This expected decrease is a result of the benefit of higher than expected returns on pension plan assets in 2010, partially offset by utilizing a lower discount rate to value the plans obligations and a 25 basis point reduction in the expected return on pension plan assets for 2011. Income Taxes Net income for 2010 included a provision for income taxes of $47.0 million, or 37.4% of income before tax, for U.S. Federal, foreign and state income taxes. The 2010 provision for income taxes included a non recurring charge of $5.3 million related to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Under this legislation, the tax advantage of the subsidy to encourage companies to provide retiree prescription drug coverage was eliminated. Although the elimination of this tax advantage under the new legislation does not take effect until 2013, the Company was required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to recognize the full accounting impact in the period in which the Act became law. Since future anticipated retiree health care liabilities and related tax subsidies were already reflected in ATIs financial statements, the change in law resulted in a reduction of the value of the Companys deferred tax asset related to the subsidy. Results of operations for 2010 also included a tax charge of $3.9 million primarily due to the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act, which allows businesses of all sizes to accelerate depreciation on certain property placed into service during 2010, which increased the Companys ability to recover prior years cash taxes paid, but reduced the current year tax benefit of the manufacturing deduction. Net income for 2009 included a provision for income taxes of $26.9 million, or 41.4% of income before tax, for U.S. Federal, foreign and state income taxes. The 2009 provision for income taxes included a non recurring charge of $11.5 million recognized in the second quarter 2009 primarily associated with the tax consequences of the June 2009 $350 million voluntary cash contribution to our pension plan. Results of operations for 2008 included a provision for income taxes of $294.2 million, or 33.9% of income before tax. The results for 2008 benefited from a $11.9 million favorable adjustment of prior years taxes. Deferred taxes result from temporary differences in the recognition of income and expense for financial and income tax reporting purposes, and differences between the fair value of assets acquired in business combinations accounted for as purchases for financial reporting purposes and their corresponding tax bases. Deferred income taxes represent future tax benefits or costs to be recognized when those temporary differences reverse. At December 31, 2010, we had a net deferred tax liability of $74.2 million. Financial Condition and Liquidity On January 7, 2011, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.95% Senior Notes due 2021 (the 2021 Notes). The 2021 Notes will pay interest semi annually in arrears at a rate of 5.95% per year and will mature on January 15, 2021, unless earlier 32 Table of Contents repurchased. We intend to use net proceeds from the offering of the 2021 Notes to finance the cash portion of the merger consideration to be paid in our previously announced acquisition of Ladish and pay related fees and expenses. The additional net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes. We believe that internally generated funds, current cash on hand including the proceeds from the 2021 Notes, and available borrowings under our existing credit facilities will be adequate to meet foreseeable liquidity needs, including the continuing expansion of our production capabilities over the next few years. We did not borrow funds under our domestic senior unsecured credit facility during 2010, 2009, or 2008. However, as of December 31, 2010 approximately $7 million of this facility was utilized to support letters of credit. If we needed to obtain additional financing using the credit markets, the cost and the terms and conditions of such borrowings may be influenced by our credit rating. Changes in our credit rating do not impact our access to, or the cost of, our existing credit facilities. We have no off balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of SEC Regulation S K. Cash Flow and Working Capital Cash flow from operations for 2010 was $27.1 million, as an investment in managed working capital of $318.5 million to support increased business activity and higher raw material costs offset improved profitability. During 2010, we invested $219.1 in capital expenditures. Cash used in financing activities was $86.8 million in 2010, primarily due to dividend payments of $70.8 million. At December 31, 2010, cash and cash equivalents on hand totaled $432.3 million, a decrease of $276.5 million from year end 2009. Cash flow from operations for 2009 was $218.5 million, which included a reduction in managed working capital of $350.5 million due to lower business activity and raw material costs, partially offset by a voluntary net cash pension contribution of $241.5 million ($350 million contribution less $108.5 million U.S. Federal income tax refund). Excluding the voluntary net cash pension contribution, cash flow from operations was $460 million for 2009. During 2009, we invested $454.3 in capital expenditures, including approximately $39 million for the acquisition of a specialty powder metals business. Cash provided by financing activities was $474.1 million in 2009 due to receipt of $734.4 million of net proceeds from the second quarter 2009 debt issuances, partially offset by debt retirements of $188.8 million and dividend payments of $70.6 million. At December 31, 2009, cash and cash equivalents on hand totaled $708.8 million, an increase of $238.9 million from year end 2008. We use cash flow from operations before voluntary pension plan contributions in order to evaluate and compare fiscal periods that do not include these contributions, and to make resource allocation decisions among operational requirements, investing and financing alternatives. Managed Working Capital As part of managing the liquidity of the business, we focus on controlling inventory, accounts receivable and accounts payable. In measuring performance in controlling this managed working capital, we exclude the effects of LIFO inventory valuation reserves, excess and obsolete inventory reserves, and reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable which, due to their nature, are managed separately. We also measure managed working capital as a percentage of the prior two months annualized sales to evaluate our performance based on recent levels of business volume. 33 Table of Contents 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Millions/$ 576 853 1,048 1,582 1,627 1,412 1,061 1,380 % of Annualized Revenue 30.7 % 29.5 % 30.3 % 29.0 % 32.2 % 35.2 % 34.5 % 34.4 % In 2010, managed working capital, which we define as gross inventory plus gross accounts receivable less accounts payable, increased by $318.5 million due to increased business activity and increased costs for certain raw materials. The increase in managed working capital was a use of cash in 2010, as gross inventory increased $250.8 million and accounts receivable increased $152.5 million, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable of $84.8 million. Managed working capital was a source of $350.5 million of cash in 2009 due to declining business levels. During 2009, gross inventory declined $183.9 million, accounts receivable declined $137.9 million and accounts payable increased by $28.7 million. In 2008 declining business levels, primarily in the fourth quarter 2008, and lower raw material costs resulted in managed working capital being a source of $214.8 million of cash. Managed working capital as a percent of annualized sales was 34.4% at the end of 2010, compared to 34.5% at the end of 2009, and 35.2% at the end of 2008. Managed working capital as a percentage of sales has increased from historical levels due to a continuing shift in mix to more value added products, primarily in the High Performance Metals and Flat Rolled Products business segments, which have a longer manufacturing process. Days sales outstanding, which measures actual collection timing for accounts receivable, increased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily as a result of increased international sales which have longer collection cycles. Gross inventory turns, which excludes the effect of LIFO inventory valuation reserves, increased slightly at year end 2010 in preparation for higher business activity in early 2011. The Components of managed working capital were as follows: December 31, December 31, December 31, (in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Accounts receivable $ 545.4 $ 392.0 $ 530.5 Inventory 1,024.5 825.5 887.6 Accounts payable (394.1 ) (308.6 ) (278.5 ) Subtotal 1,175.8 908.9 1,139.6 Allowance for doubtful accounts 5.6 6.5 6.3 LIFO reserve 163.0 102.8 205.6 Corporate and other 35.3 43.0 60.2 Managed working capital $ 1,379.7 $ 1,061.2 $ 1,411.7 Annualized prior 2 months sales $ 4,007.7 $ 3,076.4 $ 4,008.0 Managed working capital as a % of annualized sales 34.4 % 34.5 % 35.2 % Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures, for 2010 were $219.1 million, compared to $415.4 million in 2009, and $515.7 million in 2008. Over the past seven years, we have generated $2.3 billion in cash provided by operating activities and invested $2.1 billion in capital projects and for the acquisition of businesses. At the end of 2010, capital expenditures over the past seven years represented approximately 60% of total property, plant and equipment before accumulated depreciation. This percentage is a significant indicator of the modern nature of the Companys productive capacity. 34 Table of Contents We have significantly expanded and continue to expand our manufacturing capabilities to meet current and expected demand growth from the aerospace (engine and airframe) and defense, oil and gas, chemical process industry, electrical energy, and medical markets, especially for titanium and titanium based alloys, nickel based alloys and superalloys, specialty alloys, and exotic alloys. These self funded capital investments include: In service: The expansion of ATIs aerospace quality titanium sponge production capabilities. Titanium sponge is an important raw material used to produce our titanium mill products. Our greenfield premium grade titanium sponge (jet engine rotating parts) facility in Rowley, UT, with a total cost of approximately $500 million, has commenced production, and production is planned to systematically increase during 2011. When this Utah sponge facility is fully operational, our total annual sponge production capacity including our Albany, OR standard grade titanium sponge facility is projected to be approximately 46 million pounds. These secure supply sources are intended to reduce our purchased titanium sponge and purchased titanium scrap requirements. In addition, the Utah facility will have the infrastructure in place to further expand annual capacity by approximately 18 million pounds, bringing the total annual capacity at that facility to 42 million pounds, if needed. At the end of July 2009, we temporarily idled our Albany, OR titanium sponge facility to adjust production and inventory levels. This facility is positioned to be back in production when warranted by market conditions. The expansion of ATIs mill products processing and finishing capabilities for titanium and titanium based alloys, nickel based alloys and superalloys, and specialty alloys. These projects, which were constructed in phases through 2009 and totaled approximately $260 million, included an expansion of our titanium and superalloy forging capacity at our Bakers, NC facility through the addition of an integrated 10,000 ton press forge, 700mm radial forge, and conditioning, finishing and inspection facilities to produce large diameter products needed for certain demanding applications. Forging is a hot forming process that produces wrought forging billet and forged machining bar from an ingot. The consolidation of our Natrona, PA grain oriented electrical steel melt shop into ATIs Brackenridge, PA melt shop in 2010. This consolidation is improving the overall productivity of ATIs flat rolled grain oriented electrical steel and other stainless and specialty alloys, and is reducing the cost of producing slabs and ingots. The investment should also result in significant reduction of particulate emissions. We expect to realize considerable cost savings from this consolidation beginning in 2011. Our STAL joint venture completed an expansion in 2009 that nearly tripled STALs rolling and slitting capacity to produce Precision Rolled Strip products, at a cost of approximately $100 million. STAL is now much better positioned to benefit from Chinas electronics and telecommunications manufacturing market for cell phones and smartphones, as well as Chinas rapidly growing automotive parts manufacturing market. We believe STAL is the largest producer of these thin strip products in China and that our new facility gives us a significant competitive advantage in this growing market. We increased our capacity to produce zirconium products through capital expansions of zirconium sponge production and VAR melting. This new zirconium sponge and melting capacity better positions ATI for the current and expected strong growth in demand from the nuclear energy and chemical process industry markets. We believe that ATI is now the worlds largest producer of critical reactor grade zirconium sponge for the nuclear energy market. In October 2009, we acquired the assets of Crucible Compaction Metals and Crucible Research, a western Pennsylvania producer of advanced powder metal products, for approximately $39 million. This acquisition, which was named ATI Powder Metals, expanded our specialty metals product portfolio. Powder metals are used in the production of complex alloy chemistries, typically when conventional processes can not be used. Powder metals represent a growth opportunity for ATI as more powder metals are used in the aerospace industry for the latest generation of jet engines and for the production of near net shape parts. Additional markets for these powder metals products include oil and gas, electrical energy, and medical. In 2010, we expanded our capabilities to serve the oil and gas and aero engine markets with the construction of a $16 million precision machining center at ATIs Sheffield, U.K. operation which enables us to provide our customers with near net shape parts. In process: A new advanced specialty metals hot rolling and processing facility at our existing Brackenridge, PA site. The project is estimated to cost approximately $1.1 billion and be completed by the end of 2013. The mill equipment vendor has been selected, and equipment orders placed, with engineering and site preparation for the facility progressing. Our new advanced hot rolling and processing facility is designed to be the most powerful mill in the world for production of specialty metals. It is designed to produce exceptional quality, thinner, and wider hot rolled coils at reduced cost with shorter lead times, and require lower working capital requirements. When completed, we believe ATIs new advanced specialty metals hot rolling and processing facility will provide unsurpassed manufacturing capability and versatility in the production of a wide range of flat rolled specialty metals. We expect improved productivity, lower costs, and higher quality for our diversified product mix of flat 35 Table of Contents rolled specialty metals, including nickel based and specialty alloys, titanium and titanium alloys, zirconium alloys, Precision Rolled Strip products, and stainless sheet and coiled plate products. It is designed to roll and process exceptional quality hot bands of up to 78.62 inches, or 2 meters, wide. We currently expect that our 2011 capital expenditures will be between $300 and $350 million, and we expect annual capital spending to remain in this range for the next few years. Debt Total debt outstanding decreased by $7.8 million, to $1,063.3 million at December 31, 2010, from $1,071.1 million at December 31, 2009. The decrease in debt was primarily due to scheduled principal payments made in 2010. In managing our overall capital structure, some of the measures on which we focus are net debt to total capitalization, which is the percentage of our debt, net of cash that may be available to reduce borrowings, to our total invested and borrowed capital, and total debt to total capitalization, which excludes cash balances. At year end 2010, our net debt to total capitalization was 23.6%, compared to 15.3% at December 31, 2009, and 2.0% at December 31, 2008. Total debt to total capitalization was 34.3% at December 31, 2010 compared to 34.7% at December 31, 2009, and 20.7% at December 31, 2008. December 31, December 31, (In millions) 2010 2009 Total debt $ 1,063.3 $ 1,071.1 Less: Cash (432.3 ) (708.8 ) Net debt $ 631.0 $ 362.3 Net debt $ 631.0 $ 362.3 Total ATI stockholders equity 2,040.8 2,012.2 Net ATI capital $ 2,671.8 $ 2,374.5 Net debt to ATI capital 23.6 % 15.3 % December 31, December 31, (In millions) 2010 2009 Total debt $ 1,063.3 $ 1,071.1 Total ATI stockholders equity 2,040.8 2,012.2 Total ATI capital $ 3,104.1 $ 3,083.3 Total debt to ATI capital 34.3 % 34.7 % In December 2010, the Company amended its $400 million senior unsecured domestic revolving credit facility to extend the facility term to December 2015. The facility includes a $200 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. Under the terms of the facility, the Company may increase the size of the credit facility by up to $100 million without seeking the further approval of the lending group. The facility requires the Company to maintain a leverage ratio (consolidated total indebtedness divided by consolidated earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization) of not greater than 3.25, and maintain an interest coverage ratio (consolidated earnings before interest and taxes divided by interest expense) of not less than 2.0. At December 31, 2010, our leverage ratio was 1.81 and our interest coverage ratio was 3.62. The definition of consolidated earnings before interest and taxes, and consolidated earnings before income, taxes, depreciation and amortization as used in the interest coverage and leverage ratios excludes any non cash pension expense or income, and consolidated indebtedness in the leverage ratio is net of cash on hand in excess of $50 million. The Company was in compliance with these required ratios during all applicable periods. As of December 31, 2010, there had been no borrowings made under the facility, although a portion of the facility was used to support approximately $7 million in letters of credit. The Company has an additional separate credit facility for the issuance of letters of credit. As of December 31, 2010, $30 million in letters of credit were outstanding under this facility. STAL, our Chinese joint venture company in which ATI has a 60% interest, has a revolving credit facility with a group of banks which extends through early August 2012. Under the credit facility, STAL may borrow up to 205 million renminbi (approximately $31 million at December 2010 exchange rates) at an interest rate equal to 90% of the applicable lending rate published by the Peoples Bank of China. The credit facility is supported solely by STALs financial capability without any guarantees from the joint venture partners, and is intended to be utilized in the future for the expansion of STALs operations, which are located in Shanghai, China. 36 Table of Contents The credit facility requires STAL to maintain a minimum level of shareholders equity, and certain financial ratios. As of December 31, 2010, there had been no borrowings made under this credit facility. STAL had approximately $0.2 million in letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2010. These letters of credit are supported solely by STALs financial capability without any guarantees from the joint venture partners. Interest rate swap contracts have been used from time to time to manage our exposure to interest rate risks. At December 31, 2010, we have no interest rate swap contracts in place. We have deferred gains on settled receive fixed, pay floating interest rate swap contracts associated with our outstanding 2011 Notes. These gains on settlement, which occurred in 2004 and 2003, remain a component of the reported balance of the 2011 Notes, and are ratably recognized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining life of the Notes, which is approximately one year. At December 31, 2010, the deferred settlement gain was $0.9 million. The result of the receive fixed, pay floating arrangements was a decrease in interest expense of $0.9 million, $1.3 million, and $2.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, compared to the fixed interest expense of the 2011 Notes. A summary of required payments under financial instruments (excluding accrued interest) and other commitments are presented below. Less than 1 3 4 5 After 5 (In millions) Total 1 year years years years Contractual Cash Obligations Total Debt including Capital Leases $ 1,062.7 $ 140.7 $ 15.6 $ 404.9 $ 501.5 Operating Lease Obligations 69.7 16.9 23.5 12.6 16.7 Other Long term Liabilities (A) 100.6 39.2 14.9 46.5 Unconditional Purchase Obligations Raw Materials (B) 1,034.6 443.2 328.3 60.9 202.2 Capital expenditures 342.6 66.6 173.0 103.0 Other (C) 116.7 34.6 40.2 20.8 21.1 Total $ 2,726.9 $ 702.0 $ 619.8 $ 617.1 $ 788.0 Other Financial Commitments Lines of Credit (D) $ 530.5 $ 73.9 $ 56.6 $ 400.0 $ Guarantees $ 20.0 (A) Other long term liabilities exclude pension liabilities and accrued postretirement benefits. (B) We have contracted for physical delivery for certain of our raw materials to meet a portion of our needs. These contracts are based upon fixed or variable price provisions. We used current market prices as of December 31, 2010, for raw material obligations with variable pricing. (C) We have various contractual obligations that extend through 2015 for services involving production facilities and administrative operations. Our purchase obligation as disclosed represents the estimated termination fees payable if we were to exit these contracts. (D) Drawn amounts were $26.6 million at December 31, 2010 under foreign credit agreements, and drawn amounts are included in total debt. Drawn amounts also include $7.1 million utilized under the $400 million domestic senior unsecured credit facility for standby letters of credit, which renew annually, and $30.5 million under a separate letter of credit facility. These letters of credit are used to support: $28.5 million in workers compensation and general insurance arrangements, and $9.1 million related to environmental, legal and other matters. Retirement Benefits At December 31, 2010, our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan was fully funded. The value of the pension plan investments exceeded the liabilities of the U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan as of the end of 2010 by $9 million, or approximately 0.4%. We have not been required to make cash contributions to this defined benefit pension plan since 1995, and we did not make a contribution during 2010. However, during the six previous years (2004 2009), we have made $765.2 million in voluntary cash and stock contributions to this plan to improve the plans funded position. These voluntary contributions were comprised of cash contributions of $350 million in 2009, $30 million in 2008, and $100 million during each of 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, plus $50 million during 2004. Additionally in the fourth quarter of 2008, we contributed 1.5 million shares of ATI common stock, valued at $35.2 million, to the pension plan. Based on current regulations and actuarial studies, we do not expect to be required to make cash contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan for 2011. However, we may elect, depending upon investment 37 Table of Contents performance of the pension plan assets and other factors, to make additional voluntary cash contributions to this pension plan in the future. We fund certain retiree health care benefits for Allegheny Ludlum using investments held in a Company administered Voluntary Employee Benefit Association (VEBA) trust. This allows us to recover a portion of the retiree medical costs. In accordance with our labor agreements, during 2010, 2009, and 2008, we funded $4.2 million, $13.8 million, and $34.3 million, respectively, of retiree medical costs using the investments of this VEBA trust. We may continue to fund certain retiree medical benefits utilizing the investments held in this VEBA. The value of the investments held in this VEBA was approximately $12 million as of December 31, 2010. Dividends We paid a quarterly dividend of $0.18 per share of common stock for each quarter of 2010 and 2009. The payment of dividends and the amount of such dividends depends upon matters deemed relevant by our Board of Directors, such as our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, any limitations imposed by law, credit agreements or senior securities, and other factors deemed relevant and appropriate. Critical Accounting Policies The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles. When more than one accounting principle, or the method of its application, is generally accepted, management selects the principle or method that is appropriate in our specific circumstances. Application of these accounting principles requires our management to make estimates about the future resolution of existing uncertainties; as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. In preparing these financial statements, management has made its best estimates and judgments of the amounts and disclosures included in the financial statements giving due regard to materiality. Inventories At December 31, 2010, we had net inventory of $1,024.5 million. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (last in, first out (LIFO), first in, first out (FIFO) and average cost methods) or market, less progress payments. Costs include direct material, direct labor and applicable manufacturing and engineering overhead, and other direct costs. Most of our inventory is valued utilizing the LIFO costing methodology. Inventory of our non U.S. operations is valued using average cost or FIFO methods. Under the LIFO inventory valuation method, changes in the cost of raw materials and production activities are recognized in cost of sales in the current period even though these material and other costs may have been incurred at significantly different values due to the length of time of our production cycle. The prices for many of the raw materials we use have been extremely volatile during the past four years. Since we value most of our inventory utilizing the LIFO inventory costing methodology, a rise in raw material costs has a negative effect on our operating results, while, conversely, a fall in material costs results in a benefit to operating results. For example, in 2010, the effect of rising raw material costs on our LIFO inventory valuation method resulted in cost of sales which were $60.2 million higher than would have been recognized had we utilized the FIFO methodology to value our inventory. However, in 2009 and 2008, the effect of falling raw material costs on our LIFO inventory valuation method resulted in cost of sales which were $102.8 million and $169.0 million lower than would have been recognized had we utilized the FIFO methodology to value our inventory. In a period of rising prices, cost of sales expense recognized under LIFO is generally higher than the cash costs incurred to acquire the inventory sold. Conversely, in a period of declining raw material prices, cost of sales recognized under LIFO is generally lower than cash costs incurred to acquire the inventory sold. The LIFO inventory valuation methodology is not utilized by many of the companies with which we compete, including foreign competitors. As such, our results of operations may not be comparable to those of our competitors during periods of volatile material costs due, in part, to the differences between the LIFO inventory valuation method and other acceptable inventory valuation methods. We evaluate product lines on a quarterly basis to identify inventory values that exceed estimated net realizable value. The calculation of a resulting reserve, if any, is recognized as an expense in the period that the need for the reserve is identified. At December 31, 2010, no significant reserves were required. It is our general policy to write down to scrap value any inventory that is identified as obsolete and any inventory that has aged or has not moved in more than twelve months. In some instances this criterion is up to twenty four months due to the longer manufacturing and distribution process for such products. Asset Impairment We monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our long lived assets. An impairment charge is recognized when the expected net undiscounted future cash flows from an assets use (including any proceeds from disposition) are less than the assets carrying value, and the assets carrying value exceeds its fair value. Changes in the expected use of a long lived asset group, and the financial performance of the long lived asset group and its operating segment, are evaluated as indicators of possible impairment. Future cash flow value may include appraisals for property, plant and equipment, land and improvements, future cash flow estimates from 38 Table of Contents operating the long lived assets, and other operating considerations. There were no significant charges for impairment of long lived assets in the periods presented. Retirement Benefits We have defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans covering substantially all of our employees. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, benefit expenses recognized in financial statements for defined benefit pension plans are determined on an actuarial basis, rather than as contributions are made to the plan. A significant element in determining our pension (expense) income in accordance with the accounting standards is the expected investment return on plan assets. In establishing the expected return on plan investments, which is reviewed annually in the fourth quarter, we take into consideration input from our third party pension plan asset managers and actuaries regarding the types of securities the plan assets are invested in, how those investments have performed historically, and expectations for how those investments will perform in the future. Our expected long term return on pension plan investments has been 8.75% for each of the past five years. We apply this assumed rate to the market value of plan assets at the end of the previous year. This produces the expected return on plan assets that is included in annual pension (expense) income for the current year. The actual return on pension plan assets for the last five years have been 12.2% for 2010, 16.4% for 2009, a negative 25.3% for 2008, 10.9% for 2007, and 18.2% for 2006. Based upon our strategic allocation of pension assets across the various investments asset classes, and consideration of both historical and projected annual compound returns our expected long term return on pension plan investments for 2011 was reduced to 8.50%. The effect of increasing, or lowering, the expected return on pension plan investments by 0.25% results in additional pretax annual income, or expense, of approximately $5.4 million. The cumulative difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is deferred and amortized into pension income or expense over future periods. The amount of expected return on plan assets can vary significantly from year to year since the calculation is dependent on the market value of plan assets as of the end of the preceding year. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles allow companies to calculate the expected return on pension assets using either an average of fair market values of pension assets over a period not to exceed five years, which reduces the volatility in reported pension income or expense, or their fair market value at the end of the previous year. However, the Securities and Exchange Commission currently does not permit companies to change from the fair market value at the end of the previous year methodology, which is the methodology that we use, to an averaging of fair market values of plan assets methodology. As a result, our results of operations and those of other companies, including companies with which we compete, may not be comparable due to these different methodologies in calculating the expected return on pension investments. In accordance with accounting standards, we determine the discount rate used to value pension plan liabilities as of the last day of each year. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled. In estimating this rate, we receive input from our actuaries regarding the rates of return on high quality, fixed income investments with maturities matched to the expected future retirement benefit payments. Based on this assessment at the end of December 2010, we established a discount rate of 5.8% for valuing the pension liabilities as of the end of 2010, and for determining the pension expense for 2011. We had previously assumed a discount rate of 6.2% at the end of 2009 and 6.85% for the end of 2008. The estimated effect of changing the discount rate by 0.50%, would decrease pension liabilities in the case of an increase in the discount rate, or increase pension liabilities in the case of a decrease in the discount rate by approximately $140 million. Such a change in the discount rate would decrease pension expense in the case of an increase in the discount rate, or increase pension expense in the case of a decrease in the discount rate by approximately $12 million. The effect on pension liabilities for changes to the discount rate, as well as the net effect of other changes in actuarial assumptions and experience, are deferred and amortized over future periods in accordance with the accounting standards. As discussed above, gains and losses due to differences between actual and expected results for investment returns on plan assets, and changes in the discount rate used to value benefit obligations are deferred and recognized in the income statement over future periods. However for balance sheet presentation, these gains and losses are included in the determination of benefit obligations, net of plan assets, included on the year end statement of financial position. At December 31, 2010, the Company had $944 million of pre tax net actuarial losses, primarily related to negative investment returns on plan assets in 2008, which have been recognized on the balance sheet through a reduction in stockholders equity, which are being recognized in the income statement through expense amortizations over future years. We also sponsor several postretirement plans covering certain hourly and salaried employees and retirees. These plans provide health care and life insurance benefits for eligible employees. Under most of the plans, our contributions towards premiums are capped based upon the cost as of certain dates, thereby creating a defined contribution. For the non collectively bargained plans, we maintain the right to amend or terminate the plans in the future. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting standards, postretirement expenses recognized in financial statements associated with defined benefit plans are determined on an actuarial basis, rather than as benefits are paid. We use actuarial assumptions, including the discount rate and the expected trend in health care costs, to estimate the costs and benefit obligations for these plans. The discount rate, which is determined annually at the end of each year, is developed based upon rates of return on high quality, fixed income investments. At the end of 2010, we determined the rate to be 5.8%, compared to a 6.2% discount rate in 2009, and a 6.85% discount rate in 2008. The estimated effect of changing the discount rate by 0.50%, would decrease postretirement obligations in the case of an increase in the discount rate, or increase postretirement obligations in the case of a decrease in the discount rate by approximately $19 million. Such a change in the discount rate would decrease postretirement benefit expense in 39 Table of Contents the case of an increase in the discount rate, or increase postretirement benefit expense in the case of a decrease in the discount rate by approximately $0.5 million. Based upon predictions of continued significant medical cost inflation in future years, the annual assumed rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered benefits of health care plans is 9.5% in 2011 and is assumed to gradually decrease to 5.0% in the year 2028 and remain level thereafter. Certain of these postretirement benefits are funded using plan investments held in a Company administered VEBA trust. The December 31, 2010 asset balance is $12 million and consists primarily of private equity investments. For 2010, our expected return on investments held in the VEBA trust was 8.3%, and our actual investment return was a negative 3.5%. This assumed long term rate of return on investments is applied to the market value of plan assets at the end of the previous year. This produces the expected return on plan investments that is included in annual postretirement benefits expenses for the current year. Our expected return on investments in the VEBA trust is 8.3% for 2011. The expected return on investments held in the VEBA trust is lower than the return on pension plan investments due to the mix of assets held by the VEBA trust and the expected reduction of VEBA trust assets due to benefit payments. The effect of increasing, or lowering, the expected return on postretirement benefit plan investments by 0.25% has a negligible effect on pretax annual income, or expense, due to the low level of investments held. New Accounting Pronouncements Adopted In January 2010, the FASB issued changes to disclosure requirements for fair value measurements, including the amount of transfers between Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the reasons for transfers in or out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and activity for recurring Level 3 measures. In addition, the changes clarify certain disclosure requirements related to the level at which fair value disclosures should be disaggregated with separate disclosures of purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, and the requirement to provide disclosures about valuation techniques and inputs used in determining the fair value of assets or liabilities classified as Level 2 or 3. The Company adopted the disclosure changes effective January 1, 2010, except for the disaggregated Level 3 rollforward disclosures, which will be effective for fiscal year 2011. Forward Looking Statements From time to time, the Company has made and may continue to make forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in this report relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward looking statements. Forward looking statements include those containing such words as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, would, should, will, will likely result, forecast, outlook, projects, and similar expressions. Such forward looking statements are based on managements current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which the Company is unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results or performance to materially differ from any future results or performance expressed or implied by such statements. Various of these factors are described in Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Annual Report on Form 10 K and will be described from time to time in the Company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the Companys Annual Reports on Form 10 K and the Companys subsequent reports filed with the SEC on Form 10 Q and Form 8 K, which are available on the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov and on the Companys website at http://www.atimetals.com. We assume no duty to update our forward looking statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk As part of our risk management strategy, we utilize derivative financial instruments, from time to time, to hedge our exposure to changes in raw material prices, foreign currencies, and interest rates. We monitor the third party financial institutions which are our counterparty to these financial instruments on a daily basis and diversify our transactions among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. Fair values for derivatives were measured using exchange traded prices for the hedged items including consideration of counterparty risk and the Companys credit risk. Interest Rate Risk. We attempt to maintain a reasonable balance between fixed and floating rate debt to keep financing costs as low as possible. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $36 million of floating rate debt outstanding with a weighted average interest rate of approximately 1.5%. Approximately $10 million of this floating rate debt is capped at a 6% maximum interest rate. Since the interest rate on floating rate debt changes with the short term market rate of interest, we are exposed to the risk that these interest rates may increase, raising our interest expense in situations where the interest rate is not capped. For example, a hypothetical 1% increase in the rate of interest on the $26 million of our outstanding floating rate debt not subjected to a cap would result in increased annual financing costs of approximately $0.3 million. Volatility of Energy Prices. Energy resources markets are subject to conditions that create uncertainty in the prices and availability of energy resources. The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by political and economic factors beyond our control. Increases in energy costs, or changes in costs relative to energy costs paid by competitors, have and may continue to adversely affect our profitability. To the extent that these uncertainties cause suppliers and customers to be more cost sensitive, increased energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We use approximately 8 to 10 million MMBtus of natural gas annually, depending upon business conditions, in the manufacture of our products. These purchases of natural gas expose us to risk of higher gas prices. For example, a hypothetical $1.00 per MMBtu increase in the price of natural gas would result in increased annual energy 40 Table of Contents costs of approximately $8 to $10 million. We use several approaches to minimize any material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations from volatile energy prices. These approaches include incorporating an energy surcharge on many of our products and using financial derivatives to reduce exposure to energy price volatility. At December 31, 2010, the outstanding financial derivatives used to hedge our exposure to natural gas cost volatility represented approximately 45% of our forecasted requirements through 2012. The net mark to market valuation of these outstanding hedges at December 31, 2010 was an unrealized pre tax loss of $17.3 million, of which $16.7 million was presented in accrued liabilities, $0.8 million was presented in other long term liabilities and $0.3 million was presented in other assets on the balance sheet. The effects of the hedging activity will be recognized in income over the designated hedge periods. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the effects of natural gas hedging activity increased cost of sales by $17.3 million. Volatility of Raw Material Prices. We use raw materials surcharge and index mechanisms to offset the impact of increased raw material costs; however, competitive factors in the marketplace can limit our ability to institute such mechanisms, and there can be a delay between the increase in the price of raw materials and the realization of the benefit of such mechanisms. For example, in 2010 we used approximately 95 million pounds of nickel; therefore a hypothetical change of $1.00 per pound in nickel prices would result in increased costs of approximately $95 million. In addition, in 2010 we also used approximately 780 million pounds of ferrous scrap in the production of our flat rolled products and a hypothetical change of $0.01 per pound would result in increased costs of approximately $8 million. While we enter into raw materials futures contracts from time to time to hedge exposure to price fluctuations, such as for nickel, we cannot be certain that our hedge position adequately reduces exposure. We believe that we have adequate controls to monitor these contracts, but we may not be able to accurately assess exposure to price volatility in the markets for critical raw materials. The majority of our products are sold utilizing raw material surcharges and index mechanisms. However as of December 31, 2010, we had entered into financial hedging arrangements primarily at the request of our customers related to firm orders, for an aggregate amount of less than 2% of our estimated annual nickel requirements. These nickel hedges extend to 2014. Any gain or loss associated with these hedging arrangements is included in the cost of sales. At December 31, 2010, the net mark to market valuation of our outstanding raw material hedges was an unrealized pre tax gain of $4.5 million, comprised of $3.7 million included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $0.8 million in other long term assets on the balance sheet. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency exchange contracts are used, from time to time, to limit transactional exposure to changes in currency exchange rates. We sometimes purchase foreign currency forward contracts that permit us to sell specified amounts of foreign currencies expected to be received from our export sales for pre established U.S. dollar amounts at specified dates. The forward contracts are denominated in the same foreign currencies in which export sales are denominated. These contracts are designated as hedges of the variability in cash flows of a portion of the forecasted future export sales transactions which otherwise would expose the Company to foreign currency risk. At December 31, 2010, the outstanding financial derivatives used to hedge our exposure to foreign currency, primarily euros, represented approximately 15% of our forecasted total international sales through 2011. At December 31, 2010, the net mark to market valuation of the outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was an unrealized pre tax gain of $7.4 million, of which $10.0 million is included in prepaid expenses and other assets, $0.5 million is presented in other long term assets, $2.0 million in accrued liabilities and $1.1 million in other long term liabilities on the balance sheet. In addition, we may also designate cash balances held in foreign currencies as hedges of forecasted foreign currency transactions. 41 Table of Contents 
 
