Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes and the other financial information included elsewhere in this report. This discussion includes forward looking statements about our business and operations. Our actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated and expressed in such forward looking statements and as a result of the factors we describe under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report. Overview Host Marriott Corporation, a Maryland corporation, is the owner of 122 hotel properties, which operate primarily in the luxury and upper upscale hotel segments. We conduct our operations as an umbrella partnership REIT through our direct and indirect subsidiaries, including Host Marriott, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership of which we are the sole general partner and hold approximately 90% of the partnership interests. As of February 2003, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trust ranks us as the largest lodging REIT. Our hotels are operated under brand names that are among the most respected and widely recognized in the lodging industry including Marriott, Ritz Carlton, Four Seasons, Hilton and Hyatt. Our properties are located in central business districts of major cities, near airports and in resort/convention locations. Our portfolio depends on revenue from large and small group business, business travel, as well as leisure and discount travelers. The target profile of our portfolio includes upper upscale and luxury properties in hard to duplicate locations that may allow us to maintain room rate and occupancy premiums over our competitors. We seek to maximize the value of our portfolio through aggressive asset management, by directing the managers of our hotels to reduce operating costs and increase revenues and by completing selective capital improvements. Our hotel sales traditionally experienced moderate seasonality. Additionally, hotel revenues in the fourth quarter typically reflect a greater proportion of our annual revenues than each of the prior quarters because our fourth quarter reflects sixteen weeks of results compared to twelve weeks for the first three quarters of the fiscal year. See Business and Properties Seasonality. Our results of operations primarily represent hotel level sales, which are room, food and beverage and other ancillary income such as telephone, parking and other guest services. Operating expenses consist of the costs to provide these services as well as depreciation, management fees, real and personal property taxes, ground rent, equipment rent, property insurance, income taxes of our consolidated taxable REIT subsidiaries and other costs. The operating environment during 2002 presented many challenges and was influenced significantly by reduced airline travel, weak economic conditions and general international unrest as a result of the threat of further terrorist activity and the potential for war in the Middle East. As a result, the lodging industry and our company experienced significant declines in revenues and operating profits because of reduced demand and rising operating expenses, including increased insurance costs. We expect these conditions to persist into 2003. We are expecting RevPAR in 2003 to be generally comparable to 2002 levels or modestly lower, though RevPAR is likely to decline in the first half of 2003. We also expect continuing pressure on operating margins as we expect that certain important components of our operating costs, such as wages, benefits and insurance, will increase at a rate greater than estimated inflation in 2003. Thus, operating profits and margins for 2003 will likely be below 2002 levels, especially if economic conditions do not improve. We have a significant fixed cost component and expenses associated with owning and operating hotels, which do not necessarily decrease when circumstances such as market factors cause a reduction in revenue for the property. As a result, changes in RevPAR can result in a greater percentage change in our earnings and cash flows. In response to the decline in the operations of our hotels in 2002 and 2001, we have been working with our hotel managers to achieve cost reductions at the properties, and we believe that these efforts have slowed the decrease in our operating margins. Although some of these cost savings may not be permanent, we believe that 36 we have achieved some meaningful long term efficiencies. In the future, margin improvement will generally be dependent upon revenue growth as additional cost reductions may be difficult to obtain and, as noted above, we expect that certain of our costs will increase at a rate greater than inflation in 2003. As of December 31, 2002, we were under the 2.0 to 1.0 EBITDA to cash interest coverage ratio required under the senior notes indenture. As a result, dividends on both common and preferred shares were restricted to the minimum amount of distributions required to maintain our REIT status. Required distributions for 2002 were satisfied in part by payment of dividends on the preferred shares in 2002. We believe that the remaining 2002 distribution requirement should largely be satisfied by the payment of dividends expected to be declared on preferred shares in the first, second and third quarters of 2003. We may, however, also need to pay a nominal common dividend in 2003 to the extent necessary to satisfy any remaining 2002 distribution requirement. The payment of any additional dividends on either common or preferred shares will depend on 2003 operating performance and its impact on taxable income and whether our EBITDA to cash interest coverage ratio is at least 2.0 to 1.0 coverage for 2003. Results of Operations Beginning January 1, 2001, we reported gross property level sales from the majority of our hotels, and our expenses included all property level costs including depreciation, management fees, real and personal property taxes, ground rent, equipment rent, property insurance and other costs. Our revenues for 2000 represent rental income on leases of our hotels. Expenses during 2000 represent specific owner costs, including real estate and property taxes, property insurance and ground and equipment rent. As a result, our 2002 and 2001 results are not comparable to the historical reported amounts for 2000. 2002 Compared to 2001 Revenues. Hotel sales declined $50 million, or 1.4%, to approximately $3,579 million for 2002 from $3,629 million in 2001. The $50 million decrease in hotel sales for 2002 primarily reflects the decrease in RevPAR for our properties of 4.9% to $100.74. While the decrease in RevPAR is due in part to the reduction in business and leisure travel, it is also the result of the change in business mix at our properties. Transient business, which includes the corporate and premium business segments, which generally pay the highest average room rates, has decreased by over 3% since 2000 as a percentage of room sales. Our managers have partially offset this decline with additional group and contract business and other segments that have lower average room rates. As a result, while occupancy has increased slightly, the average room rate has declined significantly. We believe these trends will continue to affect our operations until the economy strengthens and business travel increases. Rental income decreased $35 million, or 25.7%, to $101 million for 2002 from $136 million in 2001. Rental income for 2002 and 2001 includes: 1) lease income from our limited service hotel leases of $71 million and $77 million, respectively, 2) lease income from full service hotel leases of $24 million and $53 million, respectively, and 3) office space rental income of $6 million for both years. We repurchased the lessee entities with respect to four of the remaining five full service hotels leased to third parties effective June 16, 2001 and terminated those leases for financial reporting purposes. As a result, we currently record rental income with respect to only one full service hotel. Operating Costs and Expenses. Operating costs and expenses decreased $20 million, or .6%, to $3,214 million in 2002 compared to 2001. This decrease is primarily the result of our efforts and those of our managers to control operating costs at the hotels and the overall decline in occupancy. However, overall our comparable hotel operating profit margin decreased 1.8 percentage points. Rental expense during 2002 and 2001 for our limited service hotel leases was $70 million and $71 million, respectively, and office space expense was $3 million for both periods. These expenses are included in other property level expenses on the consolidated statements of operations. As previously discussed, we believe that operating margins will likely decline in 2003 as a result of total costs increasing at a rate greater than total revenues. In particular, we expect that costs such as wages, benefits and insurance will increase at a rate greater than inflation. 37 Corporate Expenses. Corporate expenses decreased by $2 million, or 6.3%, to $30 million in 2002 compared to 2001. The decrease in expenses was principally due to a decrease in stock based compensation. We have stock based compensation plans under which we may award to participating employees options to purchase shares of our common stock, deferred shares of our common stock or restricted shares of our common stock as well as an employee stock purchase plan. The restricted shares issued to certain officers and key executives vest over a three year period in annual installments based on continued employment and the attainment of performance criteria established by our Compensation Policy Committee. These shares are subject to market adjustments that result in compensation expense (benefit) on a quarterly basis. As a result of the decline in our stock price and our operations in 2002, certain performance thresholds were not met, and a portion of these shares previously granted were forfeited, resulting in the reversal of expense previously recognized and a reduction in 2002 overall expenses. Minority Interest Expense. For 2002 and 2001, we recognized minority interest expense of $7 million and $23 million, respectively. The variance is primarily due to the decline in our results of operations over the course of 2002. Discontinued Operations. During January 2002, we transferred the St. Louis Marriott Pavilion to the mortgage lender in a non cash transaction. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, which we adopted January 1, 2002, we classified the hotels operating results as discontinued operations in all periods presented. As a result, at December 31, 2002 and 2001, we recorded income, net of taxes, of $7 million and a loss of $3 million, respectively, as discontinued operations. Extraordinary Gain. During 2002, we recorded an extraordinary gain, net of tax, of $6 million, representing the extinguishment of debt on the St. Louis Marriott Pavilion. During 2001, we recorded an extraordinary loss, net of tax, of $2 million representing the write off of deferred financing costs and certain fees paid to our lender in connection with renegotiations of the credit facility, as well as the refinancing of the mortgage debt on our Canadian properties. 2001 Compared to 2000 Revenues. As discussed above, our revenues and operating profit for 2001 are not comparable to 2000, due to our acquisition of the lessee entities by our wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiary. The table below presents gross hotel sales for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000. For 2000, gross hotel sales were used as the basis for calculating rental income. The data is presented in order to facilitate an investors understanding and comparative analysis of the operations of our properties and does not represent our revenues for these periods. Year Ended December 31, 2001 December 31, 2000 (in millions) Hotel sales Rooms $ 2,550 $ 2,877 Food and beverage 1,173 1,309 Other 306 323 Total hotel sales $ 4,029 $ 4,509 The $480 million decrease in hotel sales for 2001 primarily reflects the decrease in RevPAR for our properties of 13.7% to $105.96. Room sales also declined as a result of the loss of sales from the New York Marriott World Trade Center and the New York Marriott Financial Center due to the terrorist acts of September 11, 2001. The declines were partially offset by incremental revenues provided by the 500 room 38 expansion at the Orlando Marriott, which was placed in service in June 2000, and the addition of three hotels as a result of our consolidation of Rockledge Hotel Properties, Inc. (Rockledge) and Fernwood Hotel Assets, Inc. (Fernwood) as of March 24, 2001. The decline in RevPAR during 2001 was generally due to a decrease in occupancy of 7.7 percentage points and a 4.1% decrease in room rates for the year. As a result of decreased hotel sales, we directed our managers to implement cost cutting measures and revenue enhancement programs at the property level during the second quarter in order to stabilize operating profit margins. These measures included increasing labor efficiency, particularly at the managerial level and in the food and beverage area at the hotels, reducing discretionary expenses in rooms, food and beverage, and repairs and maintenance and reducing energy consumption. While we believe these measures were moderately successful, profit margins on our portfolio of hotels still decreased 3.0 percentage points for 2001. Corporate Expenses. Corporate expenses decreased by $10 million, or 24%, as a result of corporate cost cutting during 2001 and a decrease of $6 million in compensation expense related to employee stock plans. Lease Repurchase Expense. In connection with the definitive agreement with Crestline in November 2000 for the purchase of the leasehold interests with respect to 116 hotels, we recorded a nonrecurring loss provision of $207 million. In 2001, as a result of the purchase of four additional leasehold interests, we recognized a loss of $5 million. Minority Interest Expense. For 2001 and 2000, we recognized minority interest expense of $23 million and $72 million, respectively. The variance is primarily due to the decrease in the minority interest ownership of the operating partnership from 22% at December 31, 2000 to 8% at December 31, 2001. The decline is also a reflection of the decrease in our results of operations. Equity in Earnings of Affiliates. Equity in earnings of affiliates decreased $24 million, or 89%, to $3 million for 2001. The decrease is principally due to the acquisition and consolidation of Rockledge and Fernwood on March 24, 2001. Provision for Income Taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2001, we recorded an income tax provision of $9 million, a change of $107 million, from the $98 million income tax benefit in 2000. The change is primarily due to the $82 million benefit taken during 2000 due to the recognition of the income tax asset as a result of the purchase of the leasehold interests with respect to 116 hotels. Also, during 2001 and 2000, we favorably resolved certain tax matters and recognized $16 million and $32 million, respectively, related thereto as a benefit to our tax provision. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of cash are cash from operations, the sale of assets, borrowings under our credit facility and our ability to obtain additional financing through various financial markets. Our principal uses of cash are for payments of debt, capital expenditures, asset acquisitions, operating costs, corporate expenses and distributions to our equity holders and minority owners of the operating partnership. We believe our sources of cash will be sufficient to meet our current liquidity needs. As of December 31, 2002, we had $361 million of cash and cash equivalents, which was an increase of $9 million over our December 31, 2001 balance. In addition, we have $133 million of restricted cash as a result of lender and management agreement restrictions. Additionally, approximately $171 million of our available cash and cash equivalents is held by our wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries. The distribution of this cash to the operating partnership could, under certain circumstances, increase our current or future income tax expense and or the amounts we are required to distribute to maintain our status as a REIT. 39 On July 25, 2002, we completed the renegotiation of the management and other agreements on 102 of our Marriott and RitzCarlton branded hotels, providing us with expanded approval rights over operating and capital budgets. In addition to these modifications, we expanded the pool of hotels subject to an existing agreement that allows us to sell assets unencumbered by a Marriott management agreement without the payment of termination fees. The revised pool includes 46 assets, 75% (measured by EBITDA) of which may be sold over approximately a ten year or greater period (and 22.5% (measured by EBITDA) of which may be sold unencumbered by the Marriott brand). These changes were effective as of December 29, 2001. We have also completed the renegotiation of the management agreements on our four Swiss&ocirc;tel management contracts, and have the ability to terminate two management agreements immediately and the remaining two over the next five years. We believe that the modifications to the Swiss&ocirc;tel agreements together with our revised agreements with Marriott International will enhance our ability to dispose of our non core assets more efficiently. As part of the renegotiation with Marriott International, we also reduced the amount of working capital required and expanded an existing agreement that allowed us to fund furniture, fixtures and equipment expenditures as incurred from one account that we control rather than depositing funds into individual escrow accounts for each hotel. As a result, an additional $125 million in cash became available for our general use effective July 25, 2002. At that time, approximately $75 million of funds returned to us were previously held in furniture, fixtures and equipment escrows to fund capital expenditures. While we continue to be obligated to fund capital expenditures as such expenditures are approved by us, this modification has enabled us to use the available funds for general corporate purposes. We will continue to maintain higher than normal cash balances in 2003 because we believe that the war in Iraq could adversely affect the economy and in particular the lodging industry, which would result in further decline in our operations. We believe that increased operating performance levels, specifically increased levels of business travel demand, would signal an opportunity to lower our cash balances through debt prepayments or asset acquisitions. While we currently have $300 million of availability under our credit facility and have no amounts outstanding thereunder, our forecast of operations indicates that we may fail to meet certain maintenance covenants for the credit facility during the second quarter of 2003. As a result, we expect to modify our financial covenants in the credit facility. Approximately $116 million of our mortgage debt matures, and $102 million of regularly scheduled amortization on our mortgage debt occurs, prior to 2005. We have no other significant refinancing requirements until 2005. We remain interested in pursuing single asset and portfolio acquisitions and have discussed the possibility of these transactions with several interested parties. We believe there will be opportunities over the next several years to acquire assets that are consistent with our target profile of upper upscale and luxury properties in hard to duplicate urban, convention and resort locations. However, we cannot be certain as to the size or timing of acquisition opportunities or of our ability to obtain transaction financing. We will continue to pursue opportunities to dispose of non core assets that are not consistent with our portfolio strategy. During 2003, we expect to continue to have discussions with potential buyers for certain of our non core hotels. We believe that, if consummated, sales of non core properties transactions could result in net proceeds of between $100 million to $250 million. We intend to use the proceeds from dispositions to repay debt, though we could also elect to invest in our current portfolio or to acquire additional hotels. However, there can be no assurance that these dispositions will occur. Cash provided by Operations. During 2002, our cash provided by operations increased by $91 million when compared to 2001. The increase over the prior year is partly due to an agreement we negotiated with Marriott International under which $50 million in cash became available to us because of a reduction in working capital requirements under our revised management agreements and the use of $208 million of operating cash in 2001 for the purchase of the lessee interests previously leased to Crestline. The overall increase in cash provided by operations was partially offset by the declining operating results at the hotels during 2002. 40 Cash used in Investing Activities. Based on our assessment of the current operating environment and to conserve capital, we continued our disciplined approach to capital expenditures during 2002. As a result, renewal and replacement capital expenditures at our properties have decreased by approximately $60 million, or 29%, when compared to the same period in 2001. Despite these decreases, we have focused on property maintenance and selected improvements designed to maintain appropriate levels of quality. As a result of the changes in our agreements with Marriott International, approximately $75 million of funds previously held in escrow accounts for capital expenditures at certain properties has been returned to us. On June 14, 2002, we acquired the Boston Marriott Copley Place in Boston, Massachusetts for a purchase price of $214 million, which included the assumption of $97 million of mortgage debt. We completed the sale of the Ontario Airport Marriott on January 24, 2003 for $26 million to the Westbrook Fund IV Acquisitions, LLC. We used the proceeds of this sale to retire certain of our debt. The following table summarizes significant investing activities which were completed during the first quarter of 2003 and for the years 2002 and 2001 (in millions): Transaction Date Description of Transaction Sale/(Investment) Price January 2003 Sale of Ontario Airport Marriott $ 26 June 2002 Purchase of the 1,139 room Boston Marriott Copley Place (214 ) January 2002 Development of the 295 room Golf Lodge at The Ritz Carlton, Naples (75 ) December 2001 Sale of Vail Marriott Mountain Resort and the Pittsburgh City Center 65 June 2001 Addition of a spa facility at the Marriott Harbor Beach Resort (8 ) June 2001 Purchase of minority ownership interest(1) (60 ) April 2001 Addition of a spa facility at The Ritz Carlton, Naples (26 ) March 2001 Purchase of 100% of the voting interest in Rockledge and Fernwood(2) (2 ) (1) The limited partner interests relate to seven full service hotels. (2) The voting interests were previously held by the Host Marriott Statutory Employee/Charitable Trust. Prior to the acquisition, we held a 95% non voting interest in each company. As a result of the acquisition, we consolidated three full service hotels, one of which was transferred to the lender in 2002. Cash used in Financing Activities. During 2002, the cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of principal repayments on debt of $63 million and preferred stock dividend payments of $35 million. On December 20, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had declared a dividend of $0.625 per share of preferred stock, which was paid on January 15, 2003 to shareholders of record on December 31, 2002. We did not declare a dividend on our common stock during 2002. We are aware that certain of our outstanding senior notes are currently trading at a discount to their respective face amounts. To reduce future cash interest payments, as well as future amounts due at maturity or upon redemption, we may from time to time purchase senior notes for cash through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or by conducting a tender offer. Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $150 million of our senior notes from the proceeds of any dispositions. Repurchases of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. During March 2003, we purchased $8 million of our 9.25% senior notes at par. 41 The following table summarizes significant financing activity, except for the credit facility, payment of dividends, and non cash equity transactions (all of which are discussed below), during the first quarter of 2003 and for the years 2002, 2001 and (in millions): Transaction Date Description of Transaction Transaction amount March 2003 Retired a portion of 9.25% senior notes in 2007 $ (8 ) January 2003 Partial prepayment of Ritz Carlton, Naples and Buckhead mortgage loan (17 ) September 2002 Retired 9.5% senior notes due in 2005(1) (13 ) January 2002 Purchase of interest rate cap(2) (3 ) December 2001 Issuance of Series H senior notes(3) 450 October 2001 Retired San Antonio Marriott Riverwalk mortgage loan (17 ) August 2001 Proceeds from the Canadian mortgage loan(4) 97 August 2001 Retired Ritz Carlton, Amelia Island mortgage loan(4) (88 ) March 2001 Issuance of Class C cumulative redeemable preferred stock(5) 143 (1) We retired the remaining $13 million of these senior notes at approximately 101% of par. We recorded a nominal loss on the retirement. (2) This agreement caps the floating interest rate at 14% for the swap agreement for the Series I senior notes. (3) Proceeds from the Series H senior notes were used to repay the outstanding balance on the credit facility. Additionally, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement with regards to this principal balance, as discussed below. These notes were exchanged in June 2002 for Series I senior notes on a one for one basis and are substantially identical to the Series H senior notes and are freely transferable by the holders. (4) A Canadian subsidiary entered into a financing agreement pursuant to which it borrowed $97 million. The Calgary Marriott, Toronto Airport Marriott, Toronto Marriott Eaton Centre and Toronto Delta Meadowvale hotels serve as collateral. The proceeds from this financing were used to refinance existing indebtedness on these hotels, as well as to repay the $88 million mortgage note on The Ritz Carlton, Amelia Island hotel. (5) On March 27, 2001, we issued approximately 6.0 million shares of 10% Class C cumulative redeemable preferred stock for net proceeds of $143 million. Holders of the Class C Preferred Stock are entitled to receive cumulative cash distributions at a rate of 10% per year of the $25 per unit liquidation preference. Debt. As of December 31, 2002, our total consolidated debt was approximately $5.6 billion. We have $136 million in principal amortization and debt maturities due during 2003 and $2.4 billion in principal amortization and debt maturities due over the next five years. The weighted average interest rate of all our debt is approximately 7.9% and our current average maturity is 5.5 years. Additionally, 90% of our debt has a fixed rate of interest as of December 31, 2002. Over time, we expect to increase the proportion of floating rate debt in our capital structure to 20% to 25% of our total debt, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to achieve this result on terms acceptable to us. In December 2001, in order to take advantage of low, short term interest rates, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement (described in Derivative Instruments) to convert the fixed rate of the Series H senior notes, which were subsequently exchanged into Series I senior notes, to a floating rate. In January 2002, we entered into a separate cap arrangement to limit our exposure to interest rate increases on this floating rate swap (described in Derivative Instruments). We continue to evaluate our mix of fixed rate and floating rate debt and, to the extent we deem it appropriate, we may enter into additional interest rate swap agreements related to some of our fixed rate debt. In March 2003, we purchased $8 million of 9.25% senior notes due in 2007 at par and we immediately retired the notes. On January 30, 2003, we prepaid $17 million of mortgage debt related to two of our Ritz Carlton properties. On September 16, 2002, we called $13 million of 9.5% senior notes due in May 2005 at 101% of par. We immediately retired the notes and recorded an extraordinary loss of $150,000 on the early retirement of the debt, which is presented in the statement of operations, net of $6 million extraordinary gain on extinguishment of debt related to the transfer of the St. Louis Marriott Pavilion to the lender. On June 6, 2002, we entered into a credit facility that provides an aggregate revolving loan commitment amount of up to $400 million ($300 million of which is available currently, with the balance becoming available to the extent that our leverage ratio meets a specified level.) The credit facility has an initial three year term with an option to extend for an additional year if certain conditions are met. Interest on borrowings under the credit facility will be calculated based on a spread over LIBOR ranging from 2.50% to 3.75%. The rate will vary based 42 on our leverage ratio. We are required to pay a quarterly commitment fee that will vary based on the amount of unused capacity under the credit facility. Currently, the commitment fee is .55% on an annual basis for available capacity and .10% on additional capacity. As of March 1, 2003, we have not drawn on the credit facility. In addition to the customary affirmative and negative covenants and restrictions, the credit facility contains covenants that require us to maintain leverage ratios below specified levels as well as interest, fixed charges and unsecured interest coverage ratios above specified levels. While we are currently in compliance with these maintenance covenants, our current forecasts indicate that we may fail to meet certain of these ratios during the second quarter of 2003. As a result, we expect to modify the financial covenants in our credit facility. We do not have any amounts outstanding under the credit facility in advance of seeking a modification, and we believe that this will facilitate us in reaching an agreement with our lenders with regard to such a modification. There can be no assurances, however, that we will, in fact, reach such an agreement. In addition, any additional covenants could have an impact on our ability to conduct our operations. Under the terms of the senior notes indenture and the credit facility, our ability to incur indebtedness is subject to restrictions and the satisfaction of various conditions, including an EBITDA to cash interest coverage ratio of at least 2.0 to 1.0. Beginning in the third quarter of 2002, we have not met this interest coverage ratio incurrence test. As a result, our ability to incur indebtedness is limited to indebtedness specifically permitted under the credit facility and the senior notes indenture, such as borrowings under the credit facility and borrowings in connection with a refinancing of existing debt. Our failure to meet this interest coverage ratio also restricts our ability to pay dividends on our common and preferred equity, except to the extent necessary to maintain our status as a REIT. We are currently considering several options to improve our interest coverage. These options could include, among others, retiring existing debt, swapping certain of our fixed interest rate debt for lower floating interest rate debt or acquiring properties with low or no indebtedness. There can be no assurance that these options will be available to us, or if available, that these options would be economically justifiable to implement. We have approximately $3.2 billion of senior notes outstanding that are currently rated by Moodys and Standard & Poors. As a result of the significantly reduced operating levels which followed the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the economic slowdown, the ratings on these senior notes and the senior notes issued by many other lodging companies were downgraded and placed on negative credit watch. On February 13, 2003, Standard and Poors downgraded its rating on our senior debt from BB to B+. At the same time Standard & Poors also downgraded its rating on our preferred stock from B to CCC+. The other rating agency affirmed our rating, but if operating results continue to decline, they will be more likely to downgrade their rating on our debt. While we have no significant senior note maturities until 2005, if operations were to decline further, or if our credit ratios do not otherwise improve, our senior notes could be downgraded further. If we were unable to subsequently improve our credit ratings, our cost to issue additional senior notes, to refinance this debt as it comes due or to issue additional preferred stock would likely increase. All of our mortgage debt is recourse solely to specific assets except for fraud, misapplication of funds and other customary recourse provisions. We have thirty assets that are secured by mortgage debt. Twelve of these assets are secured by mortgage debt that contains restrictive covenants that require the mortgage servicer or lender to retain and hold in escrow the cash flow after debt service when it declines below specified operating levels. The impact of these covenants is discussed below. Eight of our hotel properties secure a $609 million mortgage loan that is the sole asset of a trust that issued commercial mortgage pass though certificates, which we refer to as the CMBS Loan. These hotels securing the CMBS Loan are the New York Marriott Marquis, the San Francisco Airport Hyatt Regency, the Cambridge Hyatt Regency, the Reston Hyatt Regency, and the Swiss&ocirc;tels in Boston, New York, Atlanta and Chicago, which we refer to as the CMBS Portfolio. The CMBS Loan contains a provision that requires the mortgage servicer to retain the excess cash from the CMBS Portfolio after payment of debt service if net cash flow after payment of taxes, insurance, ground rent and reserves for furniture, fixtures and equipment for the trailing twelve months 43 declines below $96 million. Annual debt service is approximately $64 million. As a result of the effect on operations of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the economic slowdown, this provision was triggered beginning in the third quarter of 2002 and will remain in effect until the CMBS Portfolio generates the necessary minimum cash flow for two consecutive quarters, at which point, the cash that has been escrowed will be returned to us. As of December 31, 2002, approximately $10 million of cash has been escrowed. Additional amounts will be escrowed, and these amounts may be significant. There can be no assurance that the CMBS Portfolio will reach the minimum cash flow for the required period of time so that the cash will be released. On July 12, 2002, we modified the terms of the mortgage debt secured by our four Canadian properties. Under the terms of this modification, we have agreed to escrow the excess cash flow from these hotels on a retroactive basis effective December 29, 2001. To the extent that cash flow available for debt service for the twelve months ended March 28, 2003 is insufficient to achieve a specified debt service coverage level, some or all of the escrowed excess cash flow will be applied to the outstanding balance of this debt. Thereafter, excess cash flow will continue to be applied to the outstanding balance to the extent necessary to achieve the specified level of debt service coverage. As of December 31, 2002, approximately $7 million of cash is escrowed in connection with this provision. The majority of the balance will be applied to the outstanding balance of the indebtedness and the balance of the escrow will be released to us. Thereafter, we do not expect to be required to apply additional amounts of excess cash flow to the outstanding balance of the debt. However, if actual results fall short of the current forecast, additional amounts may be escrowed, which would result in additional principal repayments being made. Derivative Instruments. Historically, our debt has primarily been fixed rate including all of our previous series of senior notes. We have increased the amount of our exposure to variable rate instruments with the issuance of our Series H senior notes, which were subsequently exchanged into Series I senior notes, by using a derivative product. On December 20, 2001, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement, maturing in January 2007. Under the swap, we receive fixed rate payments at 9.5% and pay floating rate payments based on one month LIBOR plus 4.5% on a $450 million notional amount. On January 4, 2002, in a separate agreement with a different counterparty, we purchased an interest rate cap for $3 million with the same notional amount which caps the floating interest rate at 14%. Our Canadian subsidiaries entered into financing agreements pursuant to which they borrowed $96.6 million due August 2006 at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 2.75%. Since the mortgage loan on these Canadian properties is denominated in U.S. Dollars and the functional currency of the Canadian subsidiary is the Canadian Dollar, we purchased derivative instruments for hedging of the foreign currency investment. Additionally, we purchased a separate interest rate cap relating to $48.3 million of the debt for approximately $400,000 which effectively capped the interest rate at 10.75%. See Item 7a., Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk, for additional information on these derivative instruments. Lease Obligations HPT Leases. Prior to 1997, we divested certain limited service hotel properties through the sale and leaseback of 53 Courtyard by Marriott properties and 18 Residence Inn properties to Hospitality Properties Trust, or HPT. As part of the REIT conversion, the Courtyard and Residence Inn properties were subleased to subsidiaries of Crestline. The properties are managed by Marriott International under long term management agreements. Rent payable by Crestline under the non cancelable subleases consists of the minimum rent payable under the HPT leases plus an additional percentage rent based upon sales levels and is guaranteed by Crestline up to a maximum amount of $30 million. Other Lease Activities. We have lease and sublease activity relating to our former restaurant operations for which we remain either directly or contingently liable. As of December 31, 2002, the expected sublease rental income for the restaurant operations exceeded our lease liability. For a more detailed discussion of our lease obligations, see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. 44 Contractual Obligations The table below summarizes our obligations for principal payments on our debt and future minimum lease payments on our operating and capital leases (in millions): Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years More than 5 years Long Term Debt Obligations(1) $ 5,625 $ 136 $ 642 $ 1,645 $ 3,202 Capital Lease Obligations(2) 16 5 10 1 Operating Lease Obligations(3) 2,030 110 208 195 1,517 Total $ 7,671 $ 251 $ 860 $ 1,841 $ 4,719 (1) The amounts shown include amortization of principal and debt maturities on our debt, as well as discounts of $6 million on our senior notes. The amounts do not include $16 million of capital lease liabilities. (2) Future minimum lease payments have not been reduced by aggregate minimum sublease rentals from restaurants of $3 million, payable to us under non cancelable subleases. The lease payments also include interest payable of $3 million. (3) Future minimum lease payments have not been reduced by aggregate minimum sublease rentals from restaurants and HPT subleases of $36 million and $657 million, respectively, payable to us under non cancelable subleases. Investments in Affiliates We own certain investments which we do not consolidate and, accordingly, are accounted for under the equity method of accounting in accordance with our accounting policies as described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. We have included the table below and the following discussion to provide investors with additional information on these investments. Investments in affiliates consist of the following as of December 31, 2002: Ownership Interests Investment Debt Assets (in millions) CBM Joint Venture LLC 50 % $ 76 $ 911 120 Courtyard hotels JWDC Limited Partnership 55 % 37 95 JW Marriott, Washington, D.C. Tiburon Golf Ventures, L.P. 49 % 20 36 hole golf course Total $ 133 $ 1,006 One of our wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries continues to own a 50% interest in a joint venture with Marriott International that owns, through two limited partnerships, 120 Courtyard by Marriott properties totaling approximately 17,550 rooms. The joint venture, CBM Joint Venture LLC, had approximately $911 million of debt at December 31, 2002. This debt is comprised of first mortgage loans secured by the properties owned by each of the two partnerships, senior notes secured by the ownership interest in one partnership and mezzanine debt with a face amount of $200 million. Amortization for the mortgage debt was approximately $30 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The mezzanine debt is an obligation of the joint venture and was provided by an affiliate of Marriott International. All of the debt is non recourse to, and not guaranteed by, us or any of our subsidiaries. RevPAR at the Courtyard hotels declined 9.9% in 2002. Based on our current forecasts for 2003, we expect that these hotels will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund the respective debt service obligations of the two partnerships. However, because of seasonality issues, one of the partnerships is expected to make use of a senior note debt service reserve, as well as certain rights to require repayment to the partnership of certain expenses previously paid and subordination provisions for current payments in its ground leases and management agreements. In addition, we anticipate that the joint venture will defer interest payments on the mezzanine debt at least until the second half of 2003. Deferral of the interest payments due on the mezzanine debt is not a default. 45 To the extent deferred, unpaid balances are added to principal and earn interest at 13%. As of December 31, 2002, the partnerships and the joint venture maintained aggregate cash balances of approximately $23 million. We currently have a non controlling investment in a partnership that owns the JW Marriott hotel in Washington, D.C. The partnership, JWDC Limited Partnership, is the borrower under a $95.3 million mortgage loan that matures in December 2003. The mortgage is secured by the hotel and is non recourse to us. Between January 15, 2003 and June 30, 2003, Host LP has the option to purchase the 44.4% limited partner interest of one of the partners for the fair value of the interest (approximately $3 million). Host LP also has the option to purchase our co general partners 1% general partner interest for the lesser of $375,000 or fair value of the interest in the second quarter of 2003. Absent other circumstances, we intend to exercise these rights and will begin to consolidate the partnership, at which time we will repay or refinance the mortgage loan. We currently have a 49% interest in Tiburon Golf Ventures, L.P., which owns the 36 hole Greg Norman designed golf course surrounding The Ritz Carlton, Naples Golf Resort. Also, during the third quarter of 2002, we converted our 1% general partnership interest in the Mutual Benefit Marriott Hotel Associates I, Limited Partnership (a partnership that owned the Richmond Marriott hotel) to a 1% limited partnership interest in this partnership. Mutual Benefit Marriott Hotel Associates I, Limited Partnership is a 5% owner of a partnership that owns the hotel. We are currently a .1% general partner of Camelback Inn Associates Limited Partnership, which owns the Camelback Inn Marriott Resort, Golf Club and Spa. We do not have any guarantees or commitments in relation to this partnership, and all of the debt for this partnership is non recourse to us. We own minority interests in two partnerships. One owns the Budapest Marriott, and the other owns the Des Moines Marriott. We also own minority preferred shares in STSN, Inc., a technology service provider company. As a result of operating losses at these investments, we wrote the carrying value down to zero prior to January 1, 2000. Further, we have not received any distributions from these investments. We do not have any guarantees or commitments in relation to any of these interests. We do incur immaterial expenses related to these investments. If we are able to dispose of these investments, we will recognize a gain in an amount equal to the proceeds received. During the second and third quarters of 2002, we sold our 1% general partner interests in the Marriott Residence Inn Limited Partnership and Marriott Residence Inn II Limited Partnership, which owned 15 and 23 Residence Inn properties, respectively. For a more detailed discussion of our other real estate investments, which includes a summary of the outstanding debt balances of our affiliates, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. Guarantees We have certain guarantees, which consist of commitments we have made to third parties for leases or debt, that are not on our books due to various dispositions, spin offs and contractual arrangements, but that we have agreed to pay in the event of certain circumstances including default by an unrelated party. We consider the likelihood of any material payments under these guarantees to be remote. The guarantees are listed below: We remain contingently liable for leases on certain divested non lodging properties. These primarily represent divested restaurants that were sold subject to our guarantee of rental payments. The amount is approximately $48 million as of December 31, 2002. In connection with the sale of the El Paso Marriott hotel in 1999, we provided a guarantee to the City of El Paso in the event the purchaser, Columbia Sussex, defaults on bonds supported by the cash flows from the hotel. However, the purchaser also provided a standby letter of credit, a corporate guaranty and 46 has been making sinking fund deposits, all of which would serve as collateral to the extent our guarantee was called. Our guarantee supports the $14 million of bonds outstanding as of December 31, 2002. We have elected to exercise our right under the guarantee to require Columbia Sussex to retire the bonds prior to June 14, 2003. We are obligated to pay a 1%, or $140,000, prepayment penalty in connection with the early retirement of this debt at the time of such retirement. We, through our ownership interest in the operating partnership, are obligated under the partnership agreement (and various tax sharing agreements with former affiliated entities) to pay all taxes (federal, state, local and foreign including any related interest and penalties) incurred by us, as well as any liabilities that the IRS successfully may assert against us and under certain circumstances against former affiliated entities. As the potential liability is based in part on a finding by a specific taxing authority, these amounts cannot be estimated at this time. In 1997, we owned Leisure Park Venture Limited Partnership, which owns and operates a senior living facility. We spun off the partnership as part of Crestline in the REIT conversion, but we remain obligated under a guarantee of interest and principal with regard to $14.7 million of municipal bonds issued by the New Jersey Economic Development Authority through their maturity in 2027. However, to the extent we are required to make any payments under the guarantee, we have been indemnified by Crestline, who is indemnified by the subsequent purchaser of the facility. Insurance Insurance Recovery and Revenue Recognition for the Terrorist Acts. We are working closely with our insurance companies to resolve our claims related to the destruction of the Marriott World Trade Center and the damage to the New York Marriott Financial Center, including negotiating insurance payments for property damage, as well as business interruption. At the same time, we are working with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, or Port Authority, and the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation to determine how the World Trade Center site in New York will be redeveloped, though we anticipate that it will be several years before these issues are resolved. In accordance with accounting rules, we wrote off the $129 million net book value of the World Trade Center hotel in the fourth quarter of 2001 and recorded a corresponding receivable for property insurance proceeds due to us under the terms of our insurance contract. Our property insurance policy covering the Marriott World Trade Center provides payment of full replacement costs to rebuild the hotel. We are required to rebuild the hotel under the terms of our ground lease with the Port Authority and are currently developing an estimate of the replacement cost of the hotel. Should the plan developed for the World Trade Center site not include a hotel, we have two options under our insurance policy: first would be to apply the replacement cost to acquiring or constructing a hotel at another location; second would be to accept a lesser amount as defined in the insurance policy and not be required to apply that amount toward the acquisition or development of a hotel. We have received minimal insurance proceeds for property damage at the Marriott World Trade Center and, to the extent that we receive additional funds, they will be held in escrow by a trustee until there is a final resolution on rebuilding. We reopened the New York Marriott Financial Center on January 7, 2002. We have received a total of approximately $6 million in insurance proceeds for property damage to this hotel, which have been used to pay for building repairs. We expect to continue to receive business interruption proceeds for what we believe our operating results would have been at the Marriott World Trade Center absent the terrorist attacks, although the timing of the receipt of some of these proceeds cannot be determined with certainty. Since September 11, 2001, we have received $35 million in business interruption insurance with respect to the two hotels. These proceeds have been offset by $12.1 million of operating expenses for the same period, primarily representing net operating losses at the New York Marriott Financial Center, ground lease payments at the Marriott World Trade Center and severance and other payroll costs. As a result of the resolution of certain contingencies related to a portion of the insurance recoveries, we were able to recognize approximately 47 $17 million of income associated with business interruption insurance on these two properties during 2002, which is recorded in other hotel sales on the consolidated statements of operations. Insurance Coverage. Certain of our lenders require us to obtain adequate or full replacement cost all risk property insurance through insurers that maintain certain ratings from Standard & Poors, A.M. Best or other rating agencies. During the annual renewal of our property insurance policies, which was completed during the second quarter of 2002, our managers and or brokers purchased the property insurance program that was commercially reasonable and available at that time. However, we were unable to obtain full and complete terrorism insurance coverage for all types of terrorist attacks, although the passage of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 significantly improved the levels and breadth of coverage available. Further, certain of our insurance carriers did not meet lender rating requirements at the time of the renewal. As a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the economic downturn and the potential for additional terrorist attacks, one of our major carriers on the Marriott International property program was downgraded by the rating agencies, thereby exacerbating the rating non compliance issue. We have notified our lenders and they have waived the requirement or provided written assurances that they are satisfied with our insurance regarding compliance with these covenants, although the lenders have reserved the right to enforce coverage and ratings requirements at a later date. If we are required to obtain new or additional insurance, or if the lenders or servicers exercise their rights to purchase such coverage on our behalf and charge us for it, it is likely that the premiums will be higher and the increase in cost could be material. For further discussion see Risk Factors Risks of Operation We may be unable to satisfy the insurance requirements of our lenders given the changes in the insurance industry after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Insurance Coverage on Mexican Properties. We carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to all of our hotels and other properties. These policies offer coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary for similar type properties. One of our properties, the Mexico City Marriott Airport hotel has experienced a measurable amount of settlement during the past several years. While settlement of buildings in the region of Mexico City where the hotel is located is common and widespread, our hotel has shown different degrees of settlement in different parts of the building. While we have commenced remediation activities at this hotel, there can be no assurance that such remediation will successfully correct the uneven settlement. If we are unable to correct the uneven settlement to the satisfaction of our insurers, any resulting property loss or loss of ability to use the hotel may not be covered by insurance. The net book value of the hotel was $35 million at December 31, 2002. FFO and EBITDA Set forth below are two non GAAP financial measures that we use and that we believe are useful to investors: Comparative Funds From Operations (or FFO) Available to Common Stockholders, which we refer to as Comparative FFO, and Earnings Before Interest Expense, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization and other non cash items, or EBITDA. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminish predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, most industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be misleading or uninformative. The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, or NAREIT, adopted the definition of Funds From Operations, or FFO, in order to promote an industry wide standard measure of REIT operating performance that would not have certain drawbacks associated with net income under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP. Management believes that the presentation of Comparative FFO (defined below) provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations because it is a measure of our ability to service debt, fund capital expenditures and expand our business. However, Comparative FFO and EBITDA as presented may not be comparable to amounts calculated by other companies. This information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from operations, or any other operating performance measure prescribed by GAAP. Cash expenditures for various long term assets, interest expense (for EBITDA purposes only) and other items have been and will be incurred and are not reflected in the EBITDA and Comparative FFO presentations. 48 Comparative FFO. NAREIT defines FFO as net income (computed in accordance with GAAP) excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate and real estate related depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Comparative FFO consists of FFO adjusted for significant non recurring items such as the tax benefit of the repurchase of the leasehold interests in 2000 and 2001 and tax refunds in 2002. We also adjust FFO to reflect the payment of our preferred dividends as these funds are not available to common shareholders, which is consistent with the calculation of net income available to common shareholders under GAAP. EBITDA. Management believes that the presentation of EBITDA provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations because EBITDA is useful for evaluating our capacity to incur and service debt, fund capital expenditures and to expand our business. Specifically, our lenders and rating agencies believe that EBITDA is a better measure of unleveraged cash flow that can be isolated by asset and is utilized to determine our ability to service debt. Restrictive covenants in our senior notes indenture and our credit facility each contain incurrence ratios based on EBITDA. Management also uses EBITDA as one measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions. As a result of the decline in operations, EBITDA decreased $43 million, or 4.7%, to $863 million in 2002 from $906 million in 2001. Comparative FFO available to common shareholders also decreased $70 million, or 18.9%, to $300 million in 2002 over 2001. The following is a reconciliation of income from continuing operations to EBITDA and Comparative FFO (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2002 December 31, 2001 Income (loss) from continuing operations $ (29 ) $ 56 EBITDA from discontinued operations 3 Interest expense 466 458 Dividends on Convertible Preferred Securities 32 32 Depreciation and amortization 372 374 Minority interest expense 7 23 Income taxes 6 9 Lease repurchase expense 5 Equity in (earnings) losses of affiliates 9 (3 ) Other changes, net (10 ) EBITDA of Host LP 863 947 Distributions to minority interest partners of Host LP(1) (41 ) EBITDA of Host Marriott $ 863 $ 906 EBITDA of Host LP $ 863 $ 947 Interest expense (466 ) (458 ) Dividends on Convertible Preferred Securities (32 ) (32 ) Dividends on preferred stock (35 ) (32 ) Income taxes (6 ) (9 ) Partnership adjustments and other (2 ) 12 Adjustments for discontinued operations (2 ) Tax benefit of lease repurchase(2) 12 10 Tax effect of nonrecurring items(3) (4 ) (16 ) Comparative Funds From Operations of Host LP available to common unitholders 330 420 Comparative Funds From Operations of minority partners of Host LP(4) (30 ) (50 ) Comparative Funds From Operations available to common shareholders of Host Marriott $ 300 $ 370 (1) Distributions to minority interest partners of Host LP of $41 million in 2001 reflect cash distributions made during the year to minority holders of OP Units and holders of certain preferred OP Units. No distributions were made during 2002. 49 (2) This adjustment reflects the realization of the income tax benefit from the purchase of 120 leasehold interests at year end 2000 and June 2001. (3) Comparative FFO is adjusted to reflect the effect of non recurring items in the current period tax provision/(benefit) including the resolution of prior year tax matters and other items. (4) We are the sole general partner in the operating partnership and as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, held approximately 90% and 92%, respectively, of the outstanding OP Units. The $30 million and $50 million deducted for 2002 and 2001, respectively, represent the Comparative FFO attributable to the interests in the operating partnership earned by the minority partners. Our interest coverage, defined as EBITDA divided by cash interest expense, was 1.9 times, 2.0 times and 2.4 times for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends was 1.1 to 1.0 and 1.2 to 1.0 in 2001 and 2000, respectively. In 2002, we had a deficiency of earnings to fixed charges and preferred stock dividends of $32 million, primarily due to depreciation expense. In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission regulations, the ratio is calculated as the sum of pre tax income from continuing operations before adjustments for minority interest and income (loss) from equity investments plus amortization of capitalized interest, distributions from equity investments and fixed charges less capitalized interest and dividends on preferred stock divided by fixed charges which is the sum of interest expensed and capitalized, dividends on Convertible Preferred Securities and preferred stock and the estimate of interest within rental expense. See Exhibit 12.1. Inflation. Our properties have been impacted by inflation through its effect on increasing costs. Unlike other real estate, hotels have the ability to set rent (room rates) levels on a daily basis, so the impact of higher inflation often can be passed on to customers. However, the current weak economic environment has resulted in a decline in demand and has restricted our managers ability to raise room rates to offset rising costs. Critical Accounting Policies. Our consolidated financial statements include accounts of the company and all consolidated subsidiaries. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. While we do not believe the reported amounts would be materially different, application of these policies involves the exercise of judgment and the use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. All of our significant accounting policies are disclosed in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. The following represent certain critical accounting policies that require the use of business judgment or significant estimates to be made: Determination of Fair Value of Long lived Assets. The determination of the fair value or impairment of assets is based on a number of assumptions including results of future operations and expected cash flows. Judgment is required for determining the growth rate of these properties, the need for capital expenditures, as well as specific market and economic conditions. Additionally, the timing of this determination can be affected by the classification of these assets as held for sale. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. Depreciation expense is based on the estimated useful life of our assets. Amortization expense for leasehold improvements is the shorter of the lease term or the estimated useful life of the related assets. The life of the assets are based on a number of assumptions including cost and timing of capital expenditures to maintain and refurbish the assets, as well as specific market and economic conditions. While management believes its estimates are reasonable, a change in the estimated lives could affect depreciation expense and net income or the gain or loss on the sale of any of the assets. Incentive Management Fees. Incentive management fees due to managers are accrued when earned, whether or not paid, based on stated formulas in management agreements. However, judgment can be required during interim reporting periods as a result of the change in allocation ratios at specified times or upon the occurrence of certain events. Fees earned on a full year basis are not affected because the management fees are determined annually; however, there can be variation among the quarters which may affect reported results. Consolidation policies. Judgment is required with respect to the consolidation of partnership and joint venture entities in the evaluation of control, including assessment of the importance of rights and privileges of the partners based on voting rights, as well as financial interests that are not controllable 50 through voting interests. Currently, we have investments in entities that in the aggregate own 124 hotel properties and other investments which we record using the equity method of accounting. The debt on these investments is non recourse to the company and the effect of their operations on our results of operations is not material. For further detail on our unconsolidated entities see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. New Accounting Standards. In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements. This interpretation requires an existing unconsolidated variable interest entity to be consolidated by their primary beneficiary if the entity does not effectively disperse risk among all parties involved or if other parties do not have significant capital to finance activities without subordinated financial support from the primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary is the party that absorbs a majority of the entitys expected losses, receives a majority of its expected residual returns, or both as a result of holding variable interests, which are the ownership, contractual, or other pecuniary interests in an entity. This interpretation is effective immediately for variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003 and no later than the beginning of the first interim or annual reporting period beginning after June 15, 2003 for interests in variable interest entities that were acquired prior to February 1, 2003. Absent other circumstances, we believe that this interpretation will require us to consolidate the JWDC Limited Partnership, which owns the JW Marriott hotel in Washington, D.C., during 2003. For more detail on our ownership interest in the JWDC Limited Partnership, see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. In November 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57 and 107 and rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34. This interpretation outlines disclosure requirements in a guarantors financial statements relating to any obligations under guarantees for which it may have potential risk or liability, as well as clarifies a guarantors requirement to recognize a liability for the fair value, at the inception of the guarantee, of an obligation under that guarantee. The initial recognition and measurement provisions of this interpretation are effective for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002 and the disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. As of March 1, 2003, we have not provided any guarantees that would require recognition as liabilities under this interpretation. We have disclosed guarantees in accordance with this interpretation in this report on Form 10 K. In June 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. The standard requires the recognition of costs associated with exit or disposal activities when they are incurred rather than at the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan. This statement is effective for exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. We do not expect the statement to have a significant impact on our financial position or operating results. In April 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections. The provisions of this standard, which primarily relate to the rescission of Statement 4, eliminate the requirement that gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt be classified as extraordinary items unless it can be considered unusual in nature and infrequent in occurrence. These provisions are effective in fiscal years beginning after May 15, 2002. We will implement the provisions of SFAS No. 145 beginning in fiscal year 2003. At the time of implementation, we will reclassify any gains or losses from debt extinguishments in prior periods as income (loss) from operations. We do not expect the statement to have a significant impact on our financial position or operating results. In October 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets which replaces SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets to determine when a long lived asset should be classified as held for sale, among other 51 things. Those criteria specify that the asset must be available for immediate sale in its present condition, subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets, and the sale of the asset must be probable, and its transfer expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale, within one year. This Statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. SFAS No. 144 requires that for dispositions after the Statements effective date, gains and losses from the dispositions of investment properties and the properties historical operating results will be treated as discontinued operations, and therefore, be classified separately from income from continuing operations. Prior period operating results of disposed assets previously included in continuing operations must be reclassified as discontinued operations for all periods presented, although net income is not affected. As a result of the transfer of the St. Louis Marriott Pavilion to the mortgage lender in 2002, we have restated the statement of operations for all periods presented to reflect the operations of the property as discontinued operations (See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements). We do not expect the statement to have a significant impact on our financial position or operating results. Change in Accounting for Stock Options At December 31, 2002, we have two stock based employee compensation plans, which are described more fully in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. Prior to 2002, we accounted for those plans under the recognition and measurement provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations. No stock based employee compensation cost relating to the employee stock option plan is reflected in 2001 and 2000 net income, as all options granted under those plans had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. In addition, no stock based employee compensation cost relating to the employee stock purchase plan is reflected in 2001 and 2000 net income as the plan was considered non compensatory under APB 25. Effective January 1, 2002, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Boards SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, prospectively to all employee awards granted, modified or settled after January 1, 2002. Awards under our employee stock option plan generally vest over four years. Therefore, the cost related to stock based employee compensation included in the determination of net income for 2002 is less than that which would have been recognized if the fair value based method had been applied to all awards since the original effective date of SFAS No. 123. The adoption of SFAS No. 123 did not change the calculation of stock based employee compensation costs for shares granted under our deferred stock and restricted stock plans. 52 Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Sensitivity The table below provides information about our derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including interest rate swaps and debt obligations. For debt obligations, the table presents scheduled maturities and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. For interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. Weighted average interest rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield curve as of December 31, 2002. Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. Weighted average variable rates are presented in U.S. dollar equivalents, which is the companys reporting currency. Expected Maturity Date 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total FairValue ($ in millions) Liabilities Debt: Fixed Rate $ 135 $ 81 $ 558 $ 647 $ 906 $ 3,215 $ 5,542 $ 5,624 Average interest rate 8.1 % 8.1 % 8.1 % 8.0 % 7.9 % 7.8 % Variable Rate Canadian mortgage $ 1 $ 1 $ 2 $ 92 $ $ 96 102 Average interest rate 4.5 % 5.8 % 6.7 % 7.3 % % % Total Debt $ 5,638 $ 5,726 Interest Rate Derivatives Interest Rate Swaps Fixed to Variable $ $ $ $ $ 450 $ $ 450 $ 40 Average pay rate 6.2 % 7.6 % 8.4 % 9.0 % 9.6 % % Average receive rate 9.5 % 9.5 % 9.5 % 9.5 % 9.5 % % Under SFAS 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities, as it relates to our derivative products, we have entered into an interest rate swap that is designated as a fair value hedge and is treated as a hedge for tax purposes. Since the requirements for hedge accounting have been met, the swap is recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with changes in the fair value recorded to the carrying value of the Series I senior notes. Additionally, the amounts paid or received under the swap agreement will be recognized over the life of the agreement as an adjustment to interest expense. This interest rate swap agreement converted our payment obligations on the $450 million amount from a fixed rate to a floating rate based on one month LIBOR plus 4.5%. A change in the LIBOR rate of 100 basis points will result in $4.5 million increase or decrease in our annual interest expense. On January 4, 2002, in a separate agreement with a different counterparty, we purchased, for approximately $3 million, an interest rate cap with the same notional amount ($450 million) which caps the floating interest rate at 14% on the swap agreement for the Series I debt. In August 2001, we purchased an interest rate cap as part of our refinancing of $96.6 million of debt on our Canadian properties. The interest rate cap was purchased for approximately $0.4 million and is based on a notional amount ($48.3 million) which caps the floating interest rate at 10.75%. Under SFAS 133, the caps do not qualify for hedge accounting, and, therefore, will be marked to market and the gains and losses from changes in the market value of the caps will be recorded in other income or expense in the current period. As of December 31, 2002, approximately 90% of our debt bears interest at fixed rates. This debt structure largely mitigates the impact of changes in the rate of inflation on future interest costs. We have some financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including our credit facility. The interest rate on our credit facility is based on a spread over LIBOR, ranging from 2.5% to 3.75%. There were no amounts outstanding on our credit facility at December 31, 2002. The weighted average interest rate for our credit facility 53 was 5.5% for the year ended December 31, 2002. The weighted average interest rate for the prior credit facility was 4.4% for the year ended December 31, 2001. The prior credit facility was repaid in full in December 2001 with the net proceeds from the offering of the Series H senior notes, which were subsequently exchanged for Series I senior notes, and a portion of the proceeds from the sale of two properties. Exchange Rate Sensitivity The table below summarizes information on instruments and transactions that are sensitive to foreign currency exchange rates, including foreign currency forward exchange agreements. For foreign currency forward exchange agreements, the table presents the notional amounts and weighted average exchange rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. These notional amounts generally are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. Expected Maturity Date 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total Fair Value Anticipated Transactions and Related Derivatives Foreign Currency Forward Exchange Agreements Contract Amount (in millions) $ 8.3 $ 8.9 $ 9.2 $ 97.0 $ $ $ 123.4 $ 127.2 Average Contractual Exchange Rate 1.56 1.56 1.57 1.57 On August 30, 2001, Canadian subsidiaries of the operating partnership entered into a mortgage loan pursuant to which they borrowed $96.6 million (denominated in U.S. dollars) at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 2.75%. The Calgary Marriott, Toronto Airport Marriott, Toronto Marriott Eaton Centre, and Toronto Delta Meadowvale hotels serve as collateral for this financing. In addition, since the mortgage loan on these Canadian properties is denominated in U.S. Dollars and the functional currency of the Canadian subsidiaries is the Canadian Dollar, the subsidiaries entered into currency forward contracts to hedge the currency exposure of converting Canadian dollars to U.S. dollars on a monthly basis to cover debt service payments. This swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge of the debt service payments, and the forward contracts are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with offsetting changes recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. The fair value of the forward contracts is recorded each period. The weighted average interest rate for this mortgage loan was 4.6% and 5.5%, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001. The fair value of the forward contracts was $3.8 million and $1.5 million, respectively, at December 31, 2002 and 2001. 54 
 
