Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Of Results of Operations and Financial Condition The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward looking statements about our business. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors contained elsewhere in this report. Overview Structure and Business. We are a real estate investment trust, or REIT, that owns 113 full service hotel properties as of February 15, 2004, which operate primarily in the luxury and upper upscale hotel sectors. As of December 31, 2003, Host Marriott was the largest hotel REIT in the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts composite index. Host Marriott conducts its operations through Host LP, of which Host Marriott is the sole general partner. Our hotels are operated under brand names that are among the most respected and widely recognized in the lodging industry including Marriott, Ritz Carlton, Hyatt, Four Seasons, Hilton and Westin. The majority of our properties are located in central business districts of major cities, near airports and in resort/convention locations. The target profile for our portfolio includes luxury and upper upscale full service properties in locations where further large scale development is limited, which we believe allows us to maintain room rate and occupancy premiums over our competitors. We seek to maximize the value of our portfolio through aggressive asset management, by directing the managers of our hotels to maximize property operations and by completing strategic capital improvements. The majority of our customers fall into two broad groups: transient and group travelers. Our transient business, which includes the individual corporate and leisure traveler, is generally accommodated at a premium rate when compared to other customer types. Group business includes hotel bookings related to conferences and events. A smaller portion of our customer base results from contracts for a specified number of rooms over a fixed period. Our hotels are required to be operated by third party managers. We retain these third party managers under long term agreements under which they earn base and incentive management fees related to revenues and profitability of each individual hotel. We provide operating funds, or working capital, which the managers use to operate the property including purchasing inventory and paying wages, utilities and property taxes and other expenses. Our results of operations primarily represent hotel level sales, which are room, food and beverage and other ancillary income such as telephone, parking and other guest services. Operating expenses consist of the costs to provide these services, as well as management fees paid to the operators of our hotels, real and personal property taxes, utilities, ground rent, equipment rent, property insurance, depreciation and other costs. We generally receive a cash distribution, which reflects hotel level sales less property level operating expenses (excluding depreciation), from our hotel managers each period. Key Performance Indicators We have several key indicators that we use to evaluate the performance of our business. These indicators include room revenue per available room, or RevPAR, and RevPAR penetration index. RevPAR is a commonly used measure within the hotel industry to evaluate hotel operations. RevPAR is defined as the product of the average daily room rate charged and the average daily occupancy achieved. RevPAR does not include revenues from food and beverage or parking, telephone, or other guest services generated by the property. Although RevPAR does not include these ancillary revenues, it is generally considered the leading indicator of core revenues for many hotels. We also use RevPAR to compare the results of our hotels between periods and to compare results of our comparable hotels. See Comparable Hotel Operating Statistics for further discussion. 17 We assess what causes changes in RevPAR because changes that result from occupancy as compared to those that result from room rate have different implications on overall revenue levels as well as incremental operating profit. For example, increases in occupancy at a hotel would lead to increases in ancillary revenues, such as food and beverage, parking sand other hotel amenities, as well as additional incremental costs (including housekeeping services, utilities and room amenity costs). RevPAR increases due to higher room rates, however, would not result in these additional room related costs. For this reason, while operating profit would typically increase when occupancy rises, RevPAR increases due to higher room rates would have a greater impact on our profitability. A related revenue measure for our hotels is the RevPAR penetration index. The RevPAR penetration index reflects each propertys RevPAR in relation to the RevPAR for that propertys competitive set. We use the measure as an indicator of a propertys market share. For example, a RevPAR penetration index of 100 would indicate that a hotels RevPAR is, on average, the same as its competitors. A RevPAR penetration index exceeding 100 would indicate that a hotel maintains a RevPAR premium in relation to its competitive set, while a RevPAR penetration index below 100 would be an indicator that a hotel is underperforming its competitive set. One critical component in this calculation is the determination of a hotels competitive set. Factors that we consider include geographic proximity, as well as the level of service provided at the property. For example, a hotel located near a convention center might have a competitive set that includes other hotels located in close proximity to the convention center. In addition, a luxury hotel might include other luxury or upper upscale hotels in its competitive set but not economy hotels. Our methodology for determining a hotels competitive set, however, may differ from those used by other owners and or managers. One of our key performance indicators is the profitability of each hotel. Among other things, we use hotel adjusted operating profit, which is a non GAAP measure, to evaluate this. Hotel adjusted operating profit measures property level results before funding furniture, fixtures and equipment reserves and debt service and is a supplemental measure of individual property level profitability. The comparable hotel adjusted operating profit that we discuss is an aggregation of the adjusted operating profit for each of our comparable hotels. See Non GAAP Financial Measures Comparable Hotel Operating Results for further discussion. We also use, among other things, FFO per diluted share as a supplemental measure of company wide profitability. See Non GAAP Financial Measures FFO per Diluted Share for further discussion. Each of the non GAAP measures should be considered by investors as supplemental measures to GAAP performance measures such as total revenues, operating profit and earnings per share. 2003 and 2004 Lodging Industry Assessment We believe the lodging industry was negatively effected in 2003 by low levels of business travel resulting from a weak economy (predominantly in the first half of the year), the war in Iraq, continued changes in terrorist threat levels and travel reductions and restrictions related to severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. Strong economic growth in the United States economy in the second half of 2003 helped improve lodging demand, but generally not enough to offset the weak lodging demand in the first half. Our industry outlook for 2004 is more optimistic. Historically, we have seen that lodging demand in the United States correlates to U.S. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth, with typically a one to two quarter lag period especially within the luxury and upper upscale sectors of the lodging industry. Therefore, given the relatively strong U.S. GDP growth in the second half of 2003 and the forecasts for 2004, we are optimistic about improvement in lodging demand in 2004. In addition, based on these GDP forecasts, as well as the anticipated strengthening of corporate profits and capital investment, we expect an increase in business related travel and improvement in the pace of group bookings. In addition to the favorable demand trends forecasted to affect the lodging industry in general, we believe we may be able to capitalize on the low supply growth trends that have existed during the past few years. Supply growth in the lodging industry and the markets in which we operate may be influenced by a number of factors, including growth of the economy, interest rates, local considerations and the relatively long lead time required to build urban and resort/convention hotels. Historically, supply growth has averaged approximately 3% per year. 18 However, since 2000 the growth of new supply for the entire lodging industry has exhibited a declining trend below the historic average (2.6%, 1.9%, 1.6%, and 1.2% in 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively) based on data prepared by Smith Travel Research and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The upper upscale segment experienced stronger supply growth than did the industry as a whole during this period, but also exhibited a declining trend (3.7%, 2.9%, 3.2%, and 1.9% in 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively.) We believe that the low construction levels over the past few years, together with low expectations for additional supply growth over the next few years, which is because new full service hotels typically take several years to build, will lead to an imbalance between supply and growing demand that will allow for improved RevPAR performance at our hotels. In 2003, our hotel revenues (as presented in our statement of operations) declined 2.3% from 2002 as a result of the factors discussed above. However, because accounting rules require us to reclassify the results of operations of hotels we have sold or designated as held for sale to discontinued operations, the decrease in revenues was actually higher. Hotel sales, including the results of hotels acquired or disposed of during 2003 and 2002 through the date of their respective disposition or acquisition, declined 3.4%, which follows a similar decline of 3.6% in 2002 from 2001. Hotel revenues were also down in the fourth quarter of 2003 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2002, but the decline in revenues was less than the decline in the first three quarters of 2003. In response to the decline in operations of our hotels over the last several years, we have been working with our managers to achieve cost reductions at our properties. We believe these efforts have slowed the decline in the operating margins of our hotels and should create some long term efficiencies. However, in 2003, our operating margins declined further because significant components of our costs, such as employee wages and benefits, property taxes, insurance and utilities increased at a rate greater than inflation. In addition, other costs, such as property taxes are relatively inflexible and tend to remain somewhat constant regardless of any reduction in hotel property revenues. As a result, a change in our revenues usually results in a greater percentage change in our earnings and cash flows. During 2003, the average RevPAR penetration index, or market share, for our comparable hotels modestly declined, but it remains at a premium in relation to our competitive set. We believe that this decline in market share occurred because: our hotels generally have a higher percentage of their revenues generated by corporate group and corporate transient customers than their competitors and the corporate group and transient business were among the poorest performing sectors in 2003; the managers of many of our hotels were anticipating an improvement in corporate business in the second half of 2003, leading them to turn down lower rated business that was ultimately not replaced with the anticipated higher rated business; our hotels generally have a lower percentage of their revenues generated by leisure travelers than their competitors and the leisure business was among the best performing sectors in 2003; and Certain of our managers did not fully access internet distribution channels until early 2004, which generally resulted in fewer internet bookings than our competitors. As lodging demand continues to grow and, in particular, as corporate group and corporate transient business strengthens, we believe that our hotels will regain the majority of the market share lost in 2003. For 2004, we expect RevPAR to increase 3% to 4% for our comparable hotels. We also expect certain of our costs, such as wages, benefits and insurance, to continue to increase at a rate greater than inflation, which will likely result in flat operating margins for 2004. While we believe the combination of improved demand trends and low supply growth trends in the lodging industry and our strategic cost reductions create the possibility for improvements in our business in 2004, there can be no assurances that any increases in hotel revenues or earnings at our properties will be achieved. The trends discussed above may not occur for any number of reasons, including slower than anticipated growth in the economy, changes in travel patterns and the continued threat of additional terrorist attacks, all of which may result in lower revenues or higher operating costs and declining operating margins. 19 Managements Priorities Based on our primary business objectives and forecasted operating conditions, our key priorities, or financial strategies, over the next several years include the following: to acquire upper upscale and luxury hotels in unique locations where further large scale development is limited for prospective competitors, including hotels located in urban and resort/convention locations; to use the proceeds from the sale of non core hotels that do not fit within our business strategy of owning upper upscale and luxury properties in urban and resort/convention locations, to acquire properties more closely aligned to our profile or repay debt (including up to $382 million in senior notes as specifically permitted by our Board of Directors in November 2003); to implement selective capital improvements designed to increase profitability and direct our managers to minimize operating costs and increase revenues; to invest capital in our existing portfolio where the return on investment is favorable. Potential investments at our hotels could include increasing the number of rooms, adding a spa, fitness facility, convention or meeting space or upgrading the infrastructure, such as energy efficient heating and cooling systems; and to reduce our leverage to achieve an interest coverage ratio of 2.0x or greater under our senior notes indenture; thereby lifting the restrictions which generally prohibit us from incurring additional debt or paying dividends above the minimum amount required to maintain Host Marriotts REIT status. As we discussed previously, our acquisition efforts to acquire new properties over the past several years have been limited by several factors, including a lack of suitable targets that complement our portfolio and capital limitations due to weak equity markets. Similarly, we have limited our capital expenditures the past two years based on our assessment of the operating environment and to preserve capital. As a result, management has focused its priorities more on recycling capital and improving our overall leverage and financial covenants by selling non core hotels and using the proceeds to refinance or retire outstanding debt. For further detail on steps we have taken to meet our objectives, see the discussion in Liquidity and Capital Resources Debt Repayment and Refinancing and Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Provided by or Used in Investing Activities. Results of Operations The following table reflects key line items from our audited statements of operations and other significant operating statistics (in millions, except operating statistics and percentages): 2003 2002 % Change 2002 to 2003 2001 % Change 2001 to 2002 Revenues Total hotel sales $ 3,336 $ 3,415 (2.3 )% $ 3,420 (0.2 )% Operating costs and expenses: Property level costs (1) 3,071 3,032 1.3 2,982 1.7 Corporate and other expenses 61 47 29.8 56 (16.1 ) Operating Profit 316 437 (27.7 ) 520 (16.0 ) Interest expense 491 462 6.3 455 1.5 Minority interest expense 5 7 (28.6 ) 23 (69.6 ) Income from discontinued operations 239 38 529.0 5 660.0 Net income (loss) 14 (16 ) 187.5 51 (131.4 ) Other Operating Statistics (1) Comparable hotel RevPAR $ 96.85 $ 101.07 (4.2 )% $ N/A (5.1 )% Comparable average room rate $ 140.86 $ 143.60 (1.9 )% N/A (5.9 )% Comparable average occupancy 68.8 % 70.4 % (1.6 )pts. N/A (0.7 )pts. (1) Amount represents operating costs and expenses per our statements of operations less corporate and other expenses. 20 2003 Compared to 2002 As previously discussed, our hotel sales declined 3.4%, however, due to the reclassification of the results of assets sold or designated as held for sale to discontinued operations, hotel revenues on our statement of operations only declined 2.3% for full year 2003, principally due to the decline in room sales of 2.8%. For 2003, our comparable hotel RevPAR of $96.85 was down 4.2% from 2002, reflecting a decline in average room rate of 1.9% and a decrease in occupancy of 1.6 percentage points, primarily due to reduced transient demand for both business and leisure travel. Beginning in the fourth quarter, demand began to improve relative to the first three quarters of 2003, with less than one half a percent decrease in room rate and a slight decrease in occupancy over the fourth quarter of 2002. While we have begun to see a general increase in demand, the weakest component of our business continues to be the higher rated individual transient business traveler which historically has paid the highest average room rates. Our managers have partially offset this decline with additional group and contract business that has resulted in lower average room rates. While our overall results for 2003 declined, we did experience improvements in comparable hotel RevPAR in four geographic regions for the fourth quarter and two regions for the full year. Comparable hotel RevPAR for our Washington D.C. Metro region increased 4.0% for the fourth quarter and 2.5% for the full year. These increases were driven by strong transient demand particularly at our Northern Virginia properties as occupancy increased 0.9 percentage points for both the fourth quarter and full year for the comparable hotels. Our Florida region also had a slight increase in comparable hotel RevPAR for the year, but a slight decrease for the fourth quarter. The results were primarily driven by our properties in the Ft. Lauderdale and Tampa markets, which benefited from stronger group demand and leisure travel. The relative improvement of these regions was offset by the overall decline in comparable hotel RevPAR in most of our regions. In particular, our New England and South Central regions had significant declines in comparable hotel RevPAR of 15.1% and 5.8%, respectively, for the year and 14.4% and 5.7%, respectively, for the fourth quarter. The comparable hotel results in the South Central region were primarily affected by our hotels in San Antonio where full year occupancy was down 3.4 percentage points and average room rate declined 3.6%. The decrease in demand was primarily attributable to a reduction in city wide convention activity in 2003. The decline in our New England properties was driven by the performance of our three comparable hotels in Boston which had comparable hotel RevPAR declines of 18.8% and 19.7%, respectively, for the fourth quarter and full year. The New England results discussed above do not include the Boston Copley Marriott which is considered a non comparable hotel, which had an increase in RevPAR for the fourth quarter of 1.6%. Our rental income represents lease income from our 71 limited service hotels and three office property leases, as well as lease income from one full service hotel. Operations at the leased limited service hotel properties continued to suffer due to increased competition from full service and limited service properties and weak economic conditions in their markets, resulting in a very competitive environment and lower room rates. We expect that there will be slower improvement in these properties in 2004 than in our full service properties, in part, because a significant portion of these limited service properties will be undergoing renovation in 2004 to enable them to compete with the newer supply in the future, which will result in a decrease in the number of available rooms in 2004 while these renovations are underway. In 2003, we also recognized $9.6 million of other income from the settlement of a claim that we brought against our directors and officers insurance carriers for reimbursement of defense costs and settlement payments incurred in resolving a series of related actions brought against us and Marriott International which arose from the sale of certain limited partnerships units to investors prior to 1993. Operating Costs and Expenses. The increase in operating costs and expenses is primarily the result of increases in wages, benefits, insurance and utilities at our hotels. Rental and other expense for our limited service hotel leases, office properties and one full service hotel that we leased are included in other property level expenses on the consolidated statements of operations. Consistent with the relatively fixed nature of these costs, our operating expenses increased in both 2003 and 2002 despite the decrease in revenues in both years. We expect that costs such as wages, benefits and insurance will continue to increase at a rate greater than inflation. 21 Corporate and Other Expenses. Corporate and other expenses primarily consist of employee salaries and other costs such as stock based employee compensation expense, corporate insurance, audit fees, building rent and system costs. The increase in corporate and other expenses is primarily due to increases in corporate insurance and the appreciation of Host Marriotts stock price, which affects the stock based employee compensation expense. Interest Expense. Interest expense increased 6.3% over 2002 as a result of the payment of aggregate call premiums of $25 million and the acceleration of deferred financing fees of $6 million associated with the prepayment of our senior notes and various mortgages during 2003. In 2004, we expect that as a result of the retirement of approximately $500 million of debt (including $262 million retired in January 2004) that interest expense will decrease, however we will continue to incur additional expenses such as call premiums and the acceleration of deferred financing to the extent that we prepay or refinance our debt prior to its original maturity. Loss on Foreign Currency and Derivative Contracts. The loss on foreign currency and derivative contracts is due primarily to the approximate $18 million loss from the forward currency exchange contracts for our four Canadian hotels being deemed ineffective for accounting purposes. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Debt and Effect of Financial Covenants Mortgage Debt Covenants for further discussion. Minority Interest Income (Expense). Minority interest income (expense) consists of our minority partners share of the income or loss in consolidated hotel partnerships and the approximate 7% percentage ownership in Host LP. The change from 2002 in minority interest primarily reflects earnings in the current year, primarily as a result of the gain on the settlement of the World Trade Center hotel, compared to a net loss in 2002. Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Affiliates. Equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates consists of our portion of the earnings (losses) of two partnerships in which we own non controlling interests and do not consolidate in our financial statements. The increase in the loss can be attributed to an increase in the net loss of CBM Joint Venture LLC in 2003. See Investments in Affiliates for a discussion of this partnership. Discontinued Operations. Discontinued operations consists of the eight hotels sold in 2003 and one hotel sold in 2002, the gain on the disposition and business interruption proceeds for the New York Marriott World Trade Center hotel and five properties classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2003, three of which were sold in January 2004. In accordance with SFAS 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets or SFAS 144, the results of operations for these properties in the current year and prior periods are reflected in discontinued operations. For 2003, the eight hotels sold generated net proceeds of approximately $184 million with a net gain on disposition of approximately $65 million, which includes a $56 million gain on the disposition of World Trade Center hotel. For 2003 and 2002, our revenues for these eight properties and the New York Marriott World Trade Center were $222 million and $120 million, respectively, and our income before taxes was $176 million and $23 million, respectively. The St. Louis Marriott Pavilion was transferred to the mortgage lender in January 2002 in a non cash transaction and we recognized a net gain of $13 million, primarily as a result of the debt extinguished and the forgiveness of management fees net of the fair value of the assets surrendered. For 2003 and 2002, revenues for the five properties classified as held for sale were $42 million and $44 million, respectively, and our income before taxes was $1 million and $4 million, respectively. On December 3, 2003, we announced the settlement of the outstanding matters relating to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 affecting the New York Marriott World Trade Center and Financial Center hotels with the hotels insurer, Marriott International, Inc. and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. As a result of these settlements, we received net insurance proceeds of approximately $372 million. As a result of this settlement, we recorded a one time gain of approximately $212 million, which is comprised of approximately $156 million in post 2003 business interruption proceeds and approximately $56 million from the disposition of the World Trade Center hotel. The gain on disposition and the 2003 and 2002 business interruption income, net of expenses, related to the hotel has been reclassified to discontinued operations. The business interruption proceeds received, net of expenses, for the New York Marriott Financial Center hotel are included in rooms revenues from continuing operations. 22 2002 Compared to 2001 Revenues. Hotel revenues declined 0.2% for full year 2002 principally due to the decline in room sales of 0.6%. As discussed previously, revenues (as presented in our statements of operations) do not reflect the actual decline in revenues because of the reclassification of the results of assets sold or designated as held for sale to discontinued operations. Actual room sales decreased 3.6% in 2002 from 2001. For 2002, our comparable hotel RevPAR of $100.12 was down 5.1%, which was comprised of a decline in average room rate of 5.9% and a decrease in occupancy of 0.6 percentage points. The decline in comparable hotel RevPAR was primarily attributable to reduced transient demand for business and leisure travel. While the decrease in comparable hotel RevPAR is due in part to the reduction in business and leisure travel, it is also the result of the change in business mix at our properties. Transient business, which includes corporate and premium business travelers, which generally pay the highest average room rates has decreased by over 3% since 2000 as a percentage of room sales. Our managers have partially offset this decline with additional group and contract business that have lower average room rates. As a result, while occupancy increased slightly, the average room rate declined significantly. Although most regions had comparable hotel RevPAR declines in line with our overall portfolio, we did have two regions that had stronger results. Our South Central region comparable hotel RevPAR declined by only 1.1% primarily due to strong results from our three San Antonio hotels. The Mid Atlantic region also outperformed the overall portfolio with a comparable hotel RevPAR decline of 2.5%. This was due to positive comparable hotel RevPAR at our Philadelphia Convention Center Marriott and Four Seasons, Philadelphia properties, offset by declines at our suburban properties in this region. The Pacific region had the largest comparable hotel RevPAR decline at 8.3%. These results were largely due to the collapse of the technology market in the San Francisco area with all our hotels in that market having RevPAR declines. The North Central Region also had declines in comparable hotel RevPAR of 6.6%, which was a function of poor results in most of the region with our Chicago and Minneapolis properties reporting significant declines. Our rental income further declined primarily due to increased competition and weak economic conditions for the leased limited service hotels. Operating Costs and Expenses. Operating costs and expenses decreased primarily as a result of our efforts and those of our managers to control operating costs at the hotels and the overall decline in occupancy. Rental expense for our limited service hotels and office properties are included in other property level expenses on the consolidated statements of operations. These costs, which include wages, benefits and insurance, increased at a rate greater than inflation throughout the year. Corporate Expenses. Corporate expenses decreased principally due to a decrease in stock based compensation. As a result of the decline in Host Marriotts stock price and our operations in 2002, certain performance thresholds were not met and a portion of the shares previously granted were forfeited. Minority Interest Expense. The variance in minority interest expense was due to the decrease in our results of operations as described above. Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Affiliates. The decrease in equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates can be primarily attributed to an increase in the net loss of CBM Joint Venture LLC. See Investments in Affiliates for a discussion of this partnership. Discontinued Operations. During January 2002, we transferred the St. Louis Marriott Pavilion to the mortgage lender in a non cash transaction. We recorded a gain, net of taxes, of $13 million in 2002 and a loss from operations of $3 million in 2001 as discontinued operations. We also reclassified the operations from properties disposed of in 2003 and properties classified as held for sale in 2003 as discontinued operations in 2002 and 2001. For 2002 and 2001, revenues for these properties were $164 million and $209 million and our income before taxes was $27 million and $8 million, respectively. 23 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements Host Marriott is required to distribute to its stockholders at least 90% of its taxable income in order to qualify as a REIT. Because we are required to distribute almost all of our taxable income, we depend primarily on external sources of capital to finance future growth, including acquisitions. Cash Balances. As of December 31, 2003, we had $764 million of cash and cash equivalents, which was an increase of $403 million from December 31, 2002. Over the past two years our cash balances have been in excess of the $100 million to $150 million, which we had historically maintained. We expect to reduce our cash balance through the repayment of indebtedness, the acquisition of additional hotels and further investments in our portfolio. Cash increased for the year principally as a result of our settlement of outstanding matters relating to our New York Marriott World Trade Center and Financial Center hotels for net proceeds of approximately $372 million, the sale of eight hotels for net proceeds of approximately $184 million and Host Marriotts two equity offerings for net proceeds of approximately $500 million, the proceeds of which were contributed to Host LP. As described in more detail below, cash was used principally for debt repayments, regularly scheduled principal payments and the acquisition of the Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa. In addition, we have $116 million of cash, which is restricted as a result of lender restrictions (including reserves for debt service, real estate taxes, insurance, furniture and fixtures, as well as cash collateral and excess cash flow deposits). The restricted cash balances do not have a significant effect on our liquidity. We also currently have $250 million of availability under our credit facility and have no amounts outstanding under the facility. Debt Repayments and Refinancings. Proceeds from the sale of eight hotels in 2003, combined with the insurance settlement proceeds from the New York World Trade Center and Financial Center hotels and scheduled principal payments, enabled us to repay or redeem a total of approximately $240 million of debt in 2003 and $262 million of debt in January 2004. In addition, we refinanced approximately $800 million of our debt in 2003, lowering our average interest rate to 7.7% and extending our debt maturities. The refinancing and repayment of this debt will result in an annual reduction in interest expense of approximately $40 million. We have approximately $28 million of our mortgage debt maturing through December 31, 2004. Additionally, during 2004 we will have $58 million of regularly scheduled principal payments on our mortgage debt. We believe we have sufficient cash to deal with our near term debt maturities, as well as any decline in the cash flow from our business. Reducing future cash interest payments and our leverage remains a key management priority. In November 2003, Host Marriotts Board of Directors authorized us to purchase or retire up to $600 million of our senior notes ($382 million of which remains outstanding after the January 2004 repayment of $218 million of 8.45% Series C senior notes). As a result, we may continue to redeem or refinance additional senior notes and mortgage debt from time to time with proceeds from additional asset sales or to take advantage of favorable market conditions. We may purchase senior notes for cash through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, a tender offer or, in some cases, through the early redemption of such securities pursuant to their terms. Repurchases of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Any refinancing or retirement before the maturity date would affect earnings and FFO per diluted share as a result of the payment of any applicable call premiums and the acceleration of previously deferred financing fees. For example, during 2003 and the period from January 1, 2004 through February 1, 2004, we incurred interest expense resulting from the payment of call premiums and the acceleration of deferred financing fees totaling $30 million and $11 million, respectively for those periods. Capital Expenditures. We reduced our capital expenditures over the past two years because of the uncertain economic environment and our need to conserve cash. For 2003, total capital expenditures for our existing properties were approximately $201 million. Typically, we spend approximately $200 million to $250 million annually on renewals and replacements and other capital improvements. We spent approximately $181 million on renewal and replacement capital expenditures in 2003, reflecting our decision to delay certain projects 24 due to the start of the war in Iraq. Several of these projects have now begun and should be completed by the first quarter of 2004. Capital expenditures were 6.0% and 5.3% of hotel sales for 2003 and 2002, respectively. We expect renewal and replacement capital expenditures for 2004 to be approximately $255 million to $265 million (including approximately $20 million of projects which were in progress at December 31, 2003, but were not fully funded), the vast majority of which would be funded by the furniture, fixture and equipment reserves established at our hotels (typically funded annually with 5% of property revenues) and, to a lesser extent by our available cash. As of December 31, 2003, our furniture, fixture and equipment reserves totaled approximately $150 million. As a result of the challenging environment in 2003, we spent approximately $3 million on return on investment projects. In 2004, we currently estimate that we will increase our spending on return on investment projects to approximately $35 million as we are in the early stages of several large scale repositioning projects. In addition, we spent $7 million on the $15 million, 200 room expansion of the Memphis Marriott, which we expect to complete in 2004. Acquisitions. We remain interested in pursuing single asset and portfolio acquisitions and believe that there will be opportunities over the next several years to acquire assets that are consistent with our target profile of upper upscale and luxury properties in urban and resort/convention locations where further large scale development is limited, such as the Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa, which we purchased for approximately $321 million in the fourth quarter of 2003. We are currently in preliminary discussions with other sellers of hotels that meet our investment objectives, but have not entered into any definitive agreements. Any additional acquisitions may be funded, in part, from the proceeds of equity offerings by Host Marriott or the issuance of OP units by Host LP, as well as proceeds from asset sales and available cash. Because we are generally restricted in our ability to incur new debt as discussed herein, we generally will not finance any acquisitions through the issuance of debt securities until our EBITDA to interest coverage is 2.0x or greater. We cannot be certain as to the size or timing of acquisition opportunities or of our ability to obtain additional acquisition financing, if needed. Sources and Uses of Cash Our principal sources of cash are cash from operations, the sale of assets, borrowings under our credit facility and our ability to obtain additional financing through various capital markets. Our principal uses of cash are debt repayments, capital expenditures, asset acquisitions, operating costs, corporate expenses and distributions to our equity holders. Cash Provided by Operations. Cash provided by operations decreased from $380 million in 2002 to $373 million in 2003. The decrease in cash provided by operations in 2003 primarily reflects the overall reduction in hotel operating profit. Additionally, the 2002 cash provided by operations included a one time, $50 million payment from Marriott International related to negotiated changes in our management agreements with respect to working capital balances at our hotels. Previously, we had recorded this amount in our balance sheet as due from managers. There was no income statement impact of this payment. Cash Provided by or Used in Investing Activities. Cash used in investing activities decreased from $222 million in 2002 to $156 million in 2003. Activity for 2003 primarily included net proceeds of $184 million from the sale of eight hotels, property insurance proceeds of $185 million for the New York World Trade Center hotel, the acquisition of the Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa for $321 million, and capital expenditures of $201 million as discussed above in Capital Expenditures. The 2002 cash used in investing activities included a one time $75 million payment from Marriott International related to negotiated changes in our management agreements with respect to furniture, fixture and equipment escrow funds for our hotels. There was no income statement impact of this payment from Marriott International. 25 The following table summarizes significant investing activities that have been completed since the beginning of fiscal year 2002 (in millions): Transaction Date Description of Transaction Sale (Investment) Price January 2004 Sale of the Mexico City Airport Marriott $ 30 January 2004 Sale of the Atlanta Northwest Marriott, Detroit Romulus Marriott and the Detroit Southfield Marriott 51 December 2003 Insurance recovery from the New York World Trade Center Marriott and New York Marriott Financial Center hotels 372 December 2003 Sale of the Williamsburg Marriott, Oklahoma City Marriott and the Plaza San Antonio Marriott 75 November 2003 Sale of the Jacksonville Marriott 17 November 2003 Purchase of the 806 room Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa (321 ) July 2003 Sale of Norfolk Waterside Marriott, Oklahoma City Waterford Marriott and Palm Beach Gardens Marriott 71 June 2003 Acquisition of remaining interests in the JW Marriott in Washington, D.C.(1) (98 ) January 2003 Sale of Ontario Airport Marriott 26 June 2002 Purchase of the 1,139 room Boston Marriott Copley Place(2) (214 ) January 2002 Development of The Ritz Carlton, Naples Golf Resort (75 ) (1) Investment price includes the consolidation of $95 million of mortgage debt. (2) Investment price includes the assumption of $97 million of mortgage debt. As discussed previously, we continue to pursue opportunities to dispose of non core assets and expect to complete the sale of two additional non core properties by the end of the first quarter of 2004. Similar to the hotels already sold in 2003 and the four properties disposed of in the first quarter of 2004, the hotels currently under contract for sale are generally smaller hotels in secondary markets with lower growth prospects. We believe that, if consummated, sales of non core properties could result in proceeds of up to $500 million in 2004. If the proceeds from these sales are used to retire debt, operating profit will decrease, but net income may improve based on the amount of the reduction in future interest payments. Similarly, if these funds are used to purchase new hotels or reinvest in existing hotels, future operating profit and net income may improve. However, there can be no assurance that operating profit or net income will improve. Cash Used in and Provided by Financing Activities. Cash provided by financing activities for 2003 was $186 million, compared to cash used in financing activities of $149 million for 2002. Significant financing activities during 2003 included two separate issuances of common stock by Host Marriott totaling 51 million shares for net proceeds of approximately $501 million. The proceeds were contributed to Host LP which used a significant portion of the proceeds to finance the acquisition of the Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa. Host LP also issued $725 million in 7 1/8% Series J senior notes due in 2013. The net proceeds were used to redeem $429 million of our existing 7 7/8% Series A senior notes due in 2005 and $282 million of our 8.45% Series C senior notes due in 2008 on December 8, 2003. The terms of the Series A and C senior notes required that we pay a premium in exchange for the right to retire this debt in advance of its maturity date. In conjunction with the redemption, we recorded a loss of approximately $28 million for the payment of the premium and the acceleration of the related deferred financing fees in the fourth quarter of 2003. During December 2003, we announced the settlement of all outstanding matters related to the New York Marriott World Trade Center and Financial Center hotels with our insurer, Marriott International and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. As a result of this settlement, we received net proceeds of approximately $372 million, substantially all of which were used to repay debt. During the fourth quarter, we used the proceeds to repay the $65 million mortgage debt on the World Trade Center hotel and made a partial prepayment of $33 million of mortgage debt on our Canadian properties. The remainder of the proceeds was used 26 in the first quarter of 2004 for a partial prepayment of $44 million of debt secured by mortgages on two Ritz Carlton properties and to retire the remaining outstanding Series C senior notes of approximately $218 million. In conjunction with the redemption of the Series C senior notes, we will record a loss of approximately $11 million for the payment of the call premium and the acceleration of the related deferred financing fees in the first quarter of 2004. The following table summarizes significant financing activity, except for the credit facility, payment of distributions and non cash equity and derivative transactions completed since the beginning of fiscal year 2002 (in millions): Transaction Date Description of Transaction Transaction Amount January 2004 Retired a total of $218 million of 8.45% Series C senior notes $ (218 ) January 2004 Partial prepayment of The Ritz Carlton, Naples and Buckhead 9% mortgage loan (44 ) December 2003 Partial prepayment of the Canadian mortgage loan (33 ) December 2003 Retired a total of $711 million of Series 7 7/8% A and 8.45% C senior notes (711 ) December 2003 Repayment of World Trade Center hotel debt (65 ) November 2003 Issuance of 7 1/8% Series J senior notes due in 2013 725 October 2003 Issuance of 23.5 million shares of common stock 250 September 2003 Refinancing proceeds from the JW Marriott, Washington, D.C. mortgage loan 88 September 2003 Repayment of the JW Marriott, Washington, D.C. mortgage loan (95 ) August 2003 Retired a portion of 7 7/8% Series A senior notes due in 2005 (71 ) August 2003 Issuance of 27.5 million shares of common stock 251 April 2003 Partial prepayment of the Canadian mortgage loan (7 ) March 2003 Retired a portion of 9.25% senior notes due in 2007 (8 ) January 2003 Repayment of The Ritz Carlton, Naples and Buckhead 8.03% mortgage loan (17 ) September 2002 Retired 9.5% senior notes due in 2005 (13 ) Financial Condition Debt and Effect of Financial Covenants As of December 31, 2003, our debt totaled $5.5 billion (as described fully in note 4 to our consolidated financial statements). As of December 31, 2003, the weighted average interest rate of our debt was approximately 7.7% and the average maturity was 5.5 years. Additionally, approximately 85% of debt had a fixed rate of interest. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the outstanding senior notes balance includes $37 million and $40 million, respectively, of fair value adjustments for interest rate swap agreements. 27 Over time, we expect to decrease the proportion of fixed rate debt in our capital structure to 75% to 80% of our total debt, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to achieve this result on terms acceptable to us. We may do this through the use of derivative instruments including interest rate swaps or through the periodic refinancings of fixed rate mortgage debt with floating rate debt. In furtherance of this objective, in August 2003 we entered into two interest rate swap agreements maturing in October 2007. Under the agreements, we receive fixed rate payments at 9.25% and make floating rate payments based on six month LIBOR plus 590 basis points (7.08% at December 31, 2003) on a combined notional amount of $242 million. These agreements have the effect of swapping our interest obligations on $242 million in principal amount of 9.25% Series G senior notes to a floating rate of interest. In addition, in September 2003 we refinanced the $95 million mortgage debt secured by the JW Marriott in Washington, D.C. with an $88 million floating rate mortgage loan with an interest rate of one month LIBOR plus 210 basis points (3.3% at December 31, 2003.) In connection with the refinancing, we also purchased an interest rate cap, which has the effect of limiting the interest rate on the new floating rate mortgage loan to not greater than 8.1% for the first two years of the loan. We may continue to enter into similar swaps or refinancings in the future. See Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk for a discussion of our sensitivity to interest rates. Credit Facility and Senior Notes Covenants. Under the terms of our senior notes indenture and the credit facility, our ability to incur indebtedness and pay dividends is subject to restrictions and the satisfaction of various conditions, including an EBITDA to interest coverage ratio (as defined in the senior notes indenture) for Host LP of at least 2.0 to 1.0. We do not currently meet this interest coverage ratio. As a result, Host Marriott is limited in its ability to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock, except to the extent necessary to maintain Host Marriotts status as a REIT. In addition, we cannot incur indebtedness, except indebtedness specifically permitted under our senior notes indenture and the credit facility, which in both cases mainly consist of borrowings under the credit facility and borrowings in connection with a refinancing of existing debt. For this reason, we generally cannot currently finance significant capital expenditures, acquisitions or other growth through the issuance of new debt (other than borrowings under our credit facility). Accordingly, we would expect that until such time as our coverage ratio is greater than 2.0 to 1.0 our acquisitions or other growth will generally be funded with available cash, the proceeds of asset sales or the issuance of additional equity. Under our credit facility, we are required to use the proceeds of asset sales to reinvest in our assets, acquire new properties or to permanently reduce the revolving loan commitment in effect at the time. In general, in the event that we consummate asset sales during any 12 month period that generate net proceeds in excess of 1% of our total assets (calculated using undepreciated real estate assets), the revolving loan commitment will automatically be reduced by the amount of such proceeds to the extent that such proceeds are not reinvested or committed to be reinvested in our business within 364 days following the date the 1% threshold is exceeded. The May 2003 amendment to the credit facility provided for certain exceptions to this general rule. For instance, when the revolving loan commitment is $250 million or less, further revolving loan commitment reductions occur with respect to asset sales proceeds that are not reinvested only to the extent that amounts are outstanding under the credit facility. If no amounts are outstanding, a commitment reduction can be avoided if we achieve commensurate reductions in the amount of our secured indebtedness or indebtedness under our senior notes indenture. Our senior notes indenture has parallel requirements with respect to asset sales in excess of 1% of our total assets during any 12 month period. Under our senior notes indenture, amounts in excess of the 1% threshold must be either reinvested in the business or used to repay amounts outstanding under our credit facility (our availability under the credit facility would also be permanently reduced by the amount of the repayment). If asset sale proceeds are not used for either of these purposes, then we are required to offer to repurchase our senior notes at par with the excess sale proceeds. In November 2003, we crossed the 1% threshold. As a result, the revolving loan commitment would automatically be reduced unless we reinvest or commit to reinvest the net sale proceeds from all such dispositions by November 2004. Based on investments we have made (in particular, the acquisition of the Hyatt 28 Regency Maui Resort and Spa on November 13, 2003 for $321 million), as well as other planned capital expenditures, the dispositions to date will not result in a reduction of the credit facility availability. We will, however, continue to be subject to these credit facility commitment reduction provisions and senior notes indenture requirements with respect to future dispositions, if any. Mortgage Debt Covenants. Substantially all of our mortgage debt is recourse solely to specific assets except in instances of fraud, misapplication of funds and other customary recourse provisions. As of February 15, 2004, we have 29 assets that are secured by mortgage debt. Eleven of these assets are secured by mortgage debt that have restrictive covenants which require the mortgage servicer or lender to retain and hold in escrow the cash flow after debt service when it declines below specified operating levels. The effect of these covenants is discussed below: Eight of our hotel properties secure a $591 million mortgage loan that is the sole asset of a trust that issued commercial mortgage pass through certificates, which we refer to as the CMBS Loan. The hotels, which comprise what we refer to as the CMBS Portfolio, are listed in the notes to our financial statements. The CMBS Loan contains a provision that requires the mortgage servicer to retain certain excess cash flow from the CMBS Portfolio after payment of debt service (approximately $64 million) if net cash flow after payment of taxes, insurance, ground rent and reserves for furniture, fixtures and equipment for the trailing twelve months declines below $96 million. Annual debt service is $64 million. As a result of the effect of the weak economy on our operations, this provision was triggered beginning in the third quarter of 2002 and will remain in effect until the CMBS Portfolio generates the necessary minimum cash flow for two consecutive quarters, at which point, the cash that has been escrowed will be returned to us. As of December 31, 2003, approximately $15 million of cash has been escrowed. We anticipated that additional cash of approximately $20 million will be required to be escrowed in 2004. We do not expect cash flows from the CMBS Portfolio to be at the level required to trigger the release of the escrow until we have a significant improvement in operations. As such, additional amounts will be escrowed, and these amounts may be significant. We currently have a $55 million loan secured by three of our Canadian properties that matures in 2006. This loan was originally entered into during August 2001 for $97 million and was secured by all four of our Canadian properties. As a result of a decline in operations at these properties in late 2001 and 2002, we were required under the loan agreement to escrow operating cash from the hotels after the payment of debt service. In April 2003, approximately $7 million of the cash escrowed in accordance with the loan was applied to the outstanding balance of the indebtedness and approximately $2 million was released to us. Because operating results at our three properties located in Toronto had not yet fully recovered from the impact which SARS had on travel to this city, we entered into an agreement with our lenders in July 2003 to modify certain covenants so that we would not be required to make additional prepayments at that time. The terms of the modification required us to provide additional collateral of $10 million in cash and pay an additional 25 basis points of interest on the loan. As this loan is denominated in United States dollars and the functional currency of the properties is Canadian dollars, we entered into currency forward contracts to buy U.S. dollars at a fixed price at the time we entered into the loan. These forward contracts hedge the currency exposure of converting Canadian dollars into U.S. dollars on a monthly basis to cover debt service payments, including the original final balloon payment of approximately $84 million. These contracts had been designated as cash flow hedges of the debt service and balloon payment and were recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with offsetting changes recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. In December 2003, we made a partial repayment of approximately $33 million of the Canadian mortgage loan in addition to the April 2003 repayment mentioned above. We also terminated foreign currency forward contracts in an amount equal to the aggregate repayment. As a result of these prepayments, the forward currency exchange contracts were deemed ineffective hedges for accounting purposes and we recorded a loss on the contracts of approximately $18 million in 2003. We will record the change in the fair value of the outstanding forward currency contracts in operations each period. In conjunction with the December 2003 prepayment, 29 one of the hotels and the $10 million deposit was released from the collateral. The current loan is still subject to the escrow provisions and we anticipate that additional cash of approximately $4 million will be required to be escrowed in 2004. Credit Ratings Currently, we have $3.2 billion of senior notes outstanding that are rated by Moodys Investors Service and Standard & Poors. As a result of our significantly reduced operating levels over the past few years, the ratings on our senior notes have been downgraded or placed on negative credit watch. On February 13, 2003, Standard and Poors downgraded its rating on our senior debt from BB to B+. At the same time Standard & Poors also downgraded its rating on Host Marriotts preferred stock from B to CCC+. On August 6, 2003, Moodys announced that it had placed its Ba3 rating of our senior unsecured debt and its B3 rating of Host Marriotts preferred stock under review for possible downgrade. On December 4, 2003, Moodys concluded its review and changed its ratings outlook on our senior notes and Host Marriotts preferred stock to stable. While we have no senior note maturities until 2006, if our operations were to decline further, or if our credit ratios do not otherwise improve, the ratings on our senior notes could be further reduced. If we were unable to subsequently improve our credit ratings, our cost to issue additional senior notes, either in connection with a refinancing or otherwise, or to issue additional preferred stock would likely increase. Dividend Policy Host Marriott is required to distribute to its stockholders at least 90% of its taxable income in order to qualify as a REIT, including taxable income we recognize for tax purposes but with regard to which we do not receive corresponding cash. Funds used by Host Marriott to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock are provided through distributions from Host LP. For every share of common and preferred stock of Host Marriott, Host LP has issued to Host Marriott a corresponding common OP unit and preferred OP unit. As of February 15, 2004, Host Marriott is the owner of substantially all of the preferred OP units and approximately 93% of the common OP units. The remaining 7% of the common OP units are held by various third party limited partners. As a result of the minority position in Host LP common OP units, these holders share, on a pro rata basis, in amounts being distributed by Host LP. As a general rule, when Host Marriott pays a common or preferred dividend, Host LP pays an equivalent per unit distribution on all common or corresponding preferred OP units. For example, if Host Marriott paid a five cent per share dividend on its common stock, it would be based on payment of a five cent per common OP unit distribution by Host LP to Host Marriott and all other common OP unit holders. Our failure to meet the EBITDA to interest coverage ratio in our senior notes indenture and credit facility, as previously discussed, restricts our ability to pay dividends on our common and preferred equity, except to the extent necessary to maintain Host Marriotts status as a REIT. Required income distributions for 2002 were satisfied in part by the payment of dividends on the preferred stock in 2002 and in the first three quarters of 2003. Taxable income generated by the insurance recovery on the World Trade Center and Financial Center hotels was sufficient to allow Host Marriott to pay the preferred stock dividend for the fourth quarter of 2003. We expect that the taxable income generated by the insurance recovery will also be sufficient to allow Host Marriott to pay up to the first three quarters of preferred stock dividends in 2004. Preferred dividend payments beyond those supported by the taxable income generated by this settlement will depend on, among other factors, taxable income or loss from operations in 2004 or our ability to meet a minimum EBITDA to interest coverage ratio (both as required by the senior notes indenture). Host Marriott did not pay a dividend on its common stock (and, correspondingly, Host LP did not make a distribution on its common OP units) in 2002 and 2003. Host Marriott does not currently expect to pay a meaningful common dividend for 2004 other than to satisfy any remaining 2003 income distribution requirements. The decision to reinstate the common dividend (including the amount of any such dividend) will be made by the Board of Directors and will depend on several factors, including those described above for distributions on the preferred stock, as well as our liquidity and any accrued unpaid dividends on the preferred stock. 30 Investments in Affiliates We have made investments in certain ventures which we do not consolidate and, accordingly, are accounted for under the equity method of accounting in accordance with our accounting policies as described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Over the past several years we have actively marketed and sold our interests in various partnerships which are no longer consistent with our core portfolio. As a result, except for the partnerships described below any remaining interests are insignificant and or the partnerships have no recourse to the company. We have included the table below and the following discussion to provide investors with additional information on these investments. Investments in affiliates consist of the following at December 31, 2003: Ownership Interests Investment Debt Assets (in millions) CBM Joint Venture LLC 50 % $ 54 $ 901 120 Courtyard Hotels Tiburon Golf Ventures, L.P. 49 % 20 36 hole golf club Total $ 74 $ 901 We and Marriott International each own a 50% interest in CBM Joint Venture, which owns, through two limited partnerships, 120 Courtyard by Marriott properties totaling 17,550 rooms. The joint venture, CBM Joint Venture LLC, has approximately $901 million of debt. This debt consists of first mortgage loans secured by the properties owned by each of the two partnerships, senior notes secured by the ownership interest in one partnership and mezzanine debt. The mezzanine debt is an obligation of a subsidiary of the joint venture and the lender is an affiliate of Marriott International. None of the debt is recourse to, or guaranteed by, us or any of our subsidiaries. RevPAR at the Courtyard hotels declined 3.7% for 2003 when compared to the same period in 2002. Based on our current forecasts for the full year 2004, the hotels in one of these two partnerships are not expected to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund the partnerships debt service obligations. To the extent that there is insufficient cash flow to fund its debt service obligations, the partnership will continue to make use of (i) available unrestricted cash balances, (ii) a senior note debt service reserve, (iii) certain rights to require repayment to the partnership of a portion of ground rent and certain management fees it has previously paid to Marriott International, and (iv) subordination provisions for current payments in its ground leases and management agreements to cover any shortfall. As of December 31, 2003, the joint venture has deferred a total of $3.8 million in ground rent and base management fees. Interest does not accrue on such deferred amounts, but these amounts must be repaid prior to distributions to equity holders. In addition, we anticipate that the joint venture will continue to defer interest payments on the mezzanine debt for at least the first half of 2004. As of December 31, 2003, the joint venture has deferred $28 million of interest payments on the mezzanine debt. Deferral of these interest payments is not a default under the mezzanine debt agreements. To the extent deferred, unpaid mezzanine debt interest amounts have been added to principal and earn interest at 13%. As of December 31, 2003, the partnerships and the joint venture maintained aggregate unrestricted cash balances of approximately $17 million. We did not receive any cash distributions from this investment during 2003 or 2002. We currently have a 49% limited partner interest in Tiburon Golf Ventures, L.P., which owns the Greg Norman designed golf club surrounding The Ritz Carlton, Naples Golf Resort. Cash distributions from this investment were $1 million in both 2003 and 2002. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We are party to various transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements with unconsolidated entities (which we refer to as off balance sheet arrangements) under which we have certain contingent liabilities and guarantees. As of December 31, 2003, we are party to the following material off balance sheet arrangements: Tax Sharing Arrangements. Under tax sharing agreements with former affiliated companies (such as Marriott International, Host Marriott Services Corporation and Barcel&oacute; Crestline Corporation (formerly Crestline 31 Capital Corporation)), we are obligated to pay certain taxes (Federal, state, local and foreign, including any related interest and penalties) relating to periods in which the companies were affiliated with us. For example, a taxing authority could adjust an item deducted by a former affiliate during the period that this former affiliate was owned by us. This adjustment could produce a material tax liability that we may be obligated to pay under the tax sharing agreement. In addition, under the partnership agreement between Host Marriott and Host LP, Host LP is obligated to pay certain taxes (Federal, state, local and foreign, including any related interest and penalties) incurred by Host Marriott, as well as any liabilities the IRS successfully may assert against Host Marriott. We do not expect any amounts paid under the tax sharing arrangement to be material. Tax Indemnification Agreements. For reasons relating to tax considerations of the former and current owners of nine hotels, we have agreed to restrictions on selling the hotels, or repaying or refinancing the mortgage debt for varying periods depending on the hotel. These agreements require that we indemnify the owners for their tax consequences resulting from our selling the hotel or refinancing the mortgage debt during the period under the agreement. We have also agreed not to sell more than 50% of the original allocated value attributable to the former owners of a portfolio of 11 additional hotels, or to take other actions that would result in the recognition and allocation of gain to the former owners of such hotels for income tax purposes. Because the timing of these potential transactions is within our control, we believe that the likelihood of any material indemnification to be remote and therefore not material to our financial statements. Guarantees. We have certain guarantees, which consist of commitments we have made to third parties for leases or debt, that are not on our books due to various dispositions, spin offs and contractual arrangements, but that we have agreed to pay in the event of certain circumstances including default by an unrelated party. We consider the likelihood of any material payments under these guarantees to be remote. The largest guarantees (by dollar amount) are listed below: We remain contingently liable for rental payments on certain divested non lodging properties. These primarily represent divested restaurants that were sold subject to our guarantee of rental payments. The aggregate amount of these guaranteed payments is approximately $40 million as of December 31, 2003. In 1997, we owned Leisure Park Venture Limited Partnership, which owns and operates a senior living facility. We spun off the partnership as part of Crestline in the REIT conversion, but we remain obligated under a guarantee of interest and principal with regard to $14.7 million of municipal bonds issued by the New Jersey Economic Development Authority through their maturity in 2027. However, to the extent we are required to make any payments under the guarantee, we have been indemnified by Crestline, who, in turn, is indemnified by the current owner of the facility. Information on other guarantees and other off balance sheet arrangements may be found in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. Contractual Obligations The table below summarizes our obligations for principal payments on our debt, future minimum lease payments on our operating and capital leases and projected capital expenditures, each as of December 31, 2003 (in millions): Payments due by period Total Lessthan 1 year 1 to 3years 3 to 5years Morethan 5 years Long Term Debt Obligations(1) $ 5,437 $ 86 $ 831 $ 2,549 $ 1,971 Capital Lease Obligations(2) 15 5 10 Operating Lease Obligations(3) 1,779 111 209 214 1,245 Purchase Obligations(4) 65 65 Total $ 7,296 $ 267 $ 1,050 $ 2,763 $ 3,216 32 (1) The amounts shown include amortization of principal and debt maturities on our debt as well as discounts of $4 million on our senior notes. (2) Future minimum lease payments have not been reduced by aggregate minimum sublease rentals from restaurants of $2 million, payable to us under non cancelable subleases. The lease payments also include interest payable of $3 million. (3) Future minimum lease payments have not been reduced by aggregate minimum sublease rentals from restaurants and the HPT subleases of $27 million and $618 million, respectively, payable to us under non cancelable subleases. (4) Our purchase obligations consist of commitments for capital expenditures at our hotels. Under our contracts, we have the ability to defer some of these expenditures into later years and some of the current year amount reflects prior year contracts that were deferred or not completed. See Capital Expenditures. Critical Accounting Policies Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Host Marriott and all consolidated subsidiaries. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. While we do not believe the reported amounts would be materially different, application of these policies involves the exercise of judgment and the use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. We evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to the impairment of long lived assets, on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. All of our significant accounting policies are disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. The following represent certain critical accounting policies that require us to exercise our business judgment or make significant estimates: Impairment testing. We are required by GAAP to record an impairment charge when we believe that one or more of our hotels has been impaired, whereby, future undiscounted cash flows for the hotel would be less than the net book value of the hotel. For impaired assets, we record an impairment charge when a propertys fair value less selling costs is less than its net book value. We test for impairment in several situations in accordance with SFAS 144, including when current or projected cash flows are less than historical cash flows, when it becomes more likely than not that a hotel will be sold before the end of its previously estimated useful life, as well as whenever an asset is classified as held for sale or events or changes in circumstances indicate that a hotels net book value may not be recoverable. In the evaluation of the impairment of our hotels, we make many assumptions and estimates, including: projected cash flows, holding period, expected useful life future capital expenditures fair values, including consideration of capitalization rates, discount rates and comparable selling prices Changes in these estimates, assumptions, future changes in economic conditions or property level results could require us to record additional impairment charges, which would be reflected in operations in the future. Classification of Assets as Held for Sale. We classify properties that we are actively marketing as held for sale when all of the following conditions are met: our Board of Directors has approved the sale (to the extent the dollar magnitude of the sale requires Board approval); a binding agreement to purchase the property has been signed; the buyer has committed a significant amount of non refundable cash; and no significant financing contingencies exist which could cause the transaction not to be completed in a timely manner. 33 To the extent a property is classified as held for sale and its fair value less selling costs is lower than the net book value of the property, we will record an impairment loss. See the discussion above concerning the use of estimates and judgments in determining fair values for impairment tests. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. Depreciation expense is based on the estimated useful life of our assets and amortization expense for leasehold improvements is the shorter of the lease term or the estimated useful life of the related assets. The lives of the assets are based on a number of assumptions including cost and timing of capital expenditures to maintain and refurbish the assets, as well as specific market and economic conditions. While management believes its estimates are reasonable, a change in the estimated lives could affect depreciation expense and net income or the gain or loss on the sale of any of our hotels. Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets. We have approximately $90 million, net of a valuation allowance of $9 million, in consolidated deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2003. SFAS 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for income taxes, the objectives of which are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in a companys financial statements or tax returns. We have considered various factors, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future projected taxable income and tax planning strategies in determining a valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets, and we believe that it is more likely than not that we will be able to realize the $90 million in deferred tax assets in the future. When a determination is made that all, or a portion, of the deferred tax assets may not be realized, an increase in income tax expense would be recorded in that period. Valuation of Foreign Currency and Derivative Contracts. SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments. We have three interest rate swap agreements outstanding as of December 31, 2003. Our interest rate swap agreements with a fair market value of $37 million as of December 31, 2003 have been designated as fair value hedges, as described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. While we intend to continue to meet the conditions for hedge accounting, if a particular interest rate swap does not qualify as highly effective, any change in the fair value of the derivative used as a hedge would be reflected in current earnings. Should any change in management strategy, or any other circumstance, cause an existing highly effective hedge to become ineffective, the accumulated loss or gain in the value of the derivative instrument since its inception may be reclassified from the shareholders equity section of the balance sheet to current net income. We also have two interest rate cap agreements that are fair valued each quarter and the increase or decrease in fair value is recorded in net income. We also have several foreign currency forward exchange contracts that we previously used to hedge the mortgage loan on our Canadian properties. The hedge has been deemed ineffective for accounting purposes. See the discussion in Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. We estimate the fair value of all of these instruments through the use of third party valuations, which utilize the market standard methodology of netting the discounted future cash receipts and the discounted expected cash payments. The variable cash flow streams are based on an expectation of future interest and exchange rates derived from observed market interest and exchange rate curves. The values of these instruments will change over time as cash receipts and payments are made and as market conditions change. Any event that impacts the level of actual and expected future interest or exchange rates will impact our valuations. The fair value of our existing foreign currency and derivatives is likely to fluctuate materially from year to year based on changing levels of interest and exchange rates and shortening terms to maturity. Consolidation Policies. Judgment is required with respect to the consolidation of partnership and joint venture entities in the evaluation of control, including assessment of the importance of rights and privileges of the partners based on voting rights, as well as financial interests that are not controllable through voting interests. We adopted FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities in 2003. Currently, we have investments in entities that in the aggregate own 124 hotel 34 properties and other investments which we record using the equity method of accounting. These entities are considered to be voting interest entities. The debt on these investments is non recourse to the company and the effect of their operations on our results of operations is not material. While we do not believe we are required to consolidate any of our current partnerships or joint ventures, if we were required to do so, then all of the results of operations and the assets and liabilities would be included in our financial statements. For further detail on our unconsolidated entities see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. Lodging Statistics Reporting Periods for Hotel Operating Statistics and Comparable Hotel Results The results we report are based on results of our hotels reported to us by our hotel managers. Our hotel managers use different reporting periods. Marriott International, Inc., the manager of the majority of our properties, uses a year ending on the Friday closest to December 31 and reports twelve weeks of operations for the first three quarters and sixteen or seventeen weeks for the fourth quarter of the year for its Marriott managed hotels. In contrast, other managers of our hotels, such as Hyatt, report results on a monthly basis. Host Marriott, as a REIT, is required by tax laws to report results on a calendar year. As a result, we elected to adopt the reporting periods used by Marriott International modified so that our fiscal year always ends on December 31 to comply with REIT rules. Our first three quarters of operations end on the same day as Marriott International but our fourth quarter ends on December 31. Two consequences of the reporting cycle we have adopted are: (1) quarterly start dates will usually differ between years, except for the first quarter which always commences on January 1, and (2) our first and fourth quarters of operations and year to date operations may not include the same number of days as reflected in prior years. For example, the third quarter of 2003 ended on September 12 and the third quarter of 2002 ended on September 6, though both quarters reflect twelve weeks of operations. In contrast, fourth quarter results for 2003 reflected 110 days of operations, while our fourth quarter results for 2002 reflected 116 days of operations. In contrast to the reporting periods for our statement of operations, our hotel operating statistics (i.e., RevPAR, average daily rate and average occupancy) are always reported based on the reporting cycle used by Marriott International for our Marriott managed hotels. This facilitates year to year comparisons, as each reporting period will be comprised of the same number of days of operations as in the prior year (except in the case of fourth quarters comprised of seventeen weeks, such as fiscal year 2002, versus sixteen weeks). This means, however, that the reporting periods we use for hotel operating statistics may differ slightly from the reporting periods used for our statements of operations for the first and fourth quarters and the full year. For the hotel operating statistics and comparable hotel results reported herein: Hotel results for fiscal year 2003 reflect 52 weeks of operations for the period from January 4, 2003 to January 2, 2004 for our Marriott managed properties and results from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2003 for operations of all other hotels which report results on a monthly basis. Hotel results for fiscal year 2002 reflect 53 weeks of operations for the period from December 29, 2001 to January 3, 2003 for our Marriott managed hotels and results from January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2002 for operations of all other hotels which report results on a monthly basis. Hotel results for the fourth quarter of 2003 reflect 16 weeks of operations for the period from September 13, 2003 to January 2, 2004 for our Marriott managed hotels and results from September 1, 2003 to December 31, 2003 for operations of all other hotels which report results on a monthly basis. Hotel results for the fourth quarter of 2002 reflect 17 weeks of operations for the period from September 7, 2002 to January 3, 2003 for our Marriott managed hotels and results from September 1, 2002 to December 31, 2002 for operations of all other hotels which report results on a monthly basis. 35 Comparable Hotel Operating Statistics We present certain operating statistics (i.e., RevPAR, average daily rate and average occupancy) and operating results (revenues, expenses and adjusted operating profit) for the periods included in this report on a comparable hotel basis. We define our comparable hotels as full service properties (i) that are owned or leased by us and the operations of which are included in our consolidated results, whether as continuing operations or discontinued operations, for the entirety of the operating periods being compared, and (ii) that have not sustained substantial property damage or undergone large scale capital projects during the reporting periods being compared. For 2003 and 2002, we consider 112 of our portfolio of 117 full service hotels owned on December 31, 2003 to be comparable hotels. The operating results of the following hotels that we owned as of December 31, 2003 are excluded from comparable hotel results for these periods: The New York Marriott Financial Center (substantially damaged in the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and re opened in January 2002); The Ritz Carlton, Naples Golf Resort (opened in January 2002); The Boston Marriott Copley Place (acquired in June 2002); The JW Marriott, Washington, D.C. (consolidated in our financial statements beginning in the second quarter of 2003); and The Hyatt Regency Maui Resort and Spa (acquired in November 2003). In addition, the operating results of the eight hotels we disposed of in 2003 and the one hotel we disposed of in 2002 are also not included in comparable hotel results for the periods presented herein. Moreover, because these statistics and operating results are for our full service hotel properties, they exclude results for our non hotel properties and leased limited service hotels. 36 Hotel Operating Statistics The following tables set forth performance information for our full service hotels by geographic region for 2003 and 2002 for our comparable hotels, as well as all full service hotels. Comparable by Region As of December 31, 2003 Year ended December 31, 2003 Year ended December 31, 2002 Percent Change in RevPAR No. of Properties No. of Rooms Average Daily Rate Average Occupancy Percentages RevPAR Average Daily Rate Average Occupancy Percentages RevPAR Pacific 22 11,526 $ 146.12 68.0 % $ 99.29 $ 150.77 69.3 % $ 104.42 (4.9 )% Florida 11 7,047 155.59 69.5 108.11 153.37 70.3 107.88 0.2 Atlanta 15 6,563 134.29 65.2 87.58 138.70 66.4 92.03 (4.8 ) Mid Atlantic 9 6,222 178.89 74.5 133.27 186.41 76.7 143.05 (6.8 ) South Central 9 5,700 128.11 75.1 96.25 132.39 77.2 102.16 (5.8 ) North Central 15 5,395 121.81 66.4 80.88 120.89 67.8 82.00 (1.4 ) DC Metro 11 4,296 146.07 70.5 102.91 144.29 69.6 100.42 2.5 Mountain 8 3,313 103.61 61.9 64.16 107.87 64.1 69.17 (7.3 ) International 6 2,552 110.95 67.9 75.33 110.03 71.0 78.09 (3.5 ) New England 6 2,274 122.83 62.3 76.47 129.97 69.3 90.02 (15.1 ) All regions 112 54,888 140.86 68.8 96.85 143.60 70.4 101.07 (4.2 ) All Full Service Hotels by Region (1) As of December 31, 2003 Year ended December 31, 2003 Year ended December 31, 2002 Percent Change in RevPAR No. of Properties No. of Rooms Average Daily Rate Average Occupancy Percentages RevPAR Average Daily Rate Average Occupancy Percentages RevPAR Pacific 23 12,332 $ 147.11 68.0 % $ 100.02 $ 149.43 69.3 % $ 103.63 (3.5 )% Florida 12 7,342 155.97 69.0 107.56 152.53 69.3 105.76 1.7 Atlanta 15 6,563 134.29 65.2 87.58 138.70 66.4 92.03 (4.8 ) Mid Atlantic 10 6,726 180.11 74.3 133.85 186.47 76.5 142.70 (6.2 ) South Central 9 5,700 124.93 75.0 93.76 128.47 76.5 98.32 (4.6 ) North Central 15 5,395 121.81 66.4 80.88 120.89 67.8 82.00 (1.4 ) DC Metro 12 5,068 145.09 71.1 103.13 139.70 69.9 97.59 5.7 Mountain 8 3,313 103.61 61.9 64.16 107.87 64.1 69.17 (7.2 ) International 6 2,552 110.95 67.9 75.33 110.03 71.0 78.09 (3.5 ) New England 7 3,413 142.32 67.5 96.11 142.27 70.0 99.65 (3.6 ) All regions 117 58,404 141.93 69.1 98.01 143.19 70.4 100.74 (2.7 ) (1) The number of properties and the room count reflect all consolidated properties as of December 31, 2003. However, the operating statistics include the results of operations for the nine properties sold in 2003 and 2002 prior to their disposition and the results of operations of properties acquired subsequent to the date of their acquisition. Non GAAP Financial Measures We use certain non GAAP financial measures, which are measures of our historical financial performance that are not calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, within the meaning of applicable SEC rules. They are as follows: (i) Funds From Operations (FFO) per diluted share, and (ii) Comparable Hotel Operating Results. The following discussion defines these terms and presents why we believe they are useful measures of our performance. FFO per Diluted Share We present FFO per diluted share as a non GAAP measure of our performance in addition to our earnings per share (calculated in accordance with GAAP). We calculate FFO per diluted share for a given operating period as our FFO (defined as set forth below) for such period divided by the number of fully diluted shares outstanding during such period. The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) defines FFO as net income (calculated in accordance with GAAP) excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate, the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles, real estate related depreciation and amortization and after 37 adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. FFO is presented on a per share basis after making adjustments for the effects of dilutive securities, including the payment of preferred stock dividends, in accordance with NAREIT guidelines. We believe that FFO per diluted share is a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance and that presentation of FFO per diluted share, when combined with the primary GAAP presentation of earnings per share, provides beneficial information to investors. By excluding the effect of real estate depreciation, amortization and gains and losses from sales of real estate, all of which are based on historical cost accounting and which may be of limited significance in evaluating current performance, we believe that such measure can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and between other REITs, even though FFO per diluted share does not represent an amount that accrues directly to holders of our common stock. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. As noted by NAREIT in its April 2002 White Paper on Funds From Operations, since real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. For these reasons, NAREIT adopted the definition of FFO in order to promote an industry wide measure of REIT operating performance. We calculate FFO per diluted share, in accordance with standards established by NAREIT, which may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies who do not use the NAREIT definition of FFO or calculate FFO per diluted share in accordance with NAREIT guidance. In addition, although FFO per diluted share is a useful measure when comparing our results to other REITs, it may not be helpful to investors when comparing us to non REITs. This information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from operations, or any other operating performance measure prescribed by GAAP. Cash expenditures for various long term assets (such as renewal and replacement capital expenditures) and other items have been and will be incurred and are not reflected in the FFO per diluted share presentations. Management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. Our consolidated statement of operations and cash flows include interest expense, capital expenditures, and other excluded items, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non GAAP financial measures. Additionally, FFO per diluted share should not be considered as a measure of our liquidity or indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. In addition, FFO per diluted share does not measure, and should not be used as a measure of, amounts that accrue directly to shareholders benefit. Comparable Hotel Operating Results We present certain operating results for our full service hotels, such as hotel revenues, expenses and adjusted operating profit, on a comparable hotel, or same store basis as supplemental information for investors. Our comparable hotel operating results present operating results for full service hotels owned during the entirety of the periods being compared without giving effect to any acquisitions or dispositions, significant property damage or large scale capital improvements incurred during these periods. We present these comparable hotel operating results by eliminating corporate level costs and expenses related to our capital structure, as well as depreciation and amortization. We eliminate corporate level costs and expenses to arrive at property level results because we believe property level results provide investors with more specific insight into the ongoing operating performance of our hotels and the effectiveness of management in running our business on a property level basis. We eliminate depreciation and amortization, because even though depreciation and amortization are property level expenses, these non cash expenses, which are based on historical cost accounting for real estate assets, implicitly assume that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. As noted earlier, because real estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. 38 As a result of the elimination of corporate level costs and expenses and depreciation and amortization, the comparable hotel operating results we present do not represent our total revenues, expenses or operating profit and these comparable hotel operating results should not be used to evaluate our performance as a whole. Management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. Our consolidated statements of operations include such amounts, all of which should be considered by investors when evaluating our performance. We present these hotel operating results on a comparable hotel basis because we believe that doing so provides investors and management with useful information for evaluating the period to period performance of our hotels and facilitates comparisons with other hotel REITs and hotel owners. In particular, these measures assist management and investors in distinguishing whether increases or decreases in revenues and or expenses are due to growth or decline of operations at comparable hotels (which represent the vast majority of our portfolio) or from other factors, such as the effect of acquisitions or dispositions. While management believes that presentation of comparable hotel results is a same store supplemental measure that provides useful information in evaluating our ongoing performance, this measure is not used to allocate resources or assess the operating performance of these hotels, as these decisions are based on data for individual hotels and are not based on comparable portfolio hotel results. For these reasons, we believe that comparable hotel operating results, when combined with the presentation of GAAP operating profit, revenues and expenses, provide useful information to investors and management. 39 The following table presents certain operating results and statistics for our comparable hotels for fiscal years 2003 and 2002. Comparable Hotel Results (in millions, except hotel statistics) Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 Number of hotels 112 112 Number of rooms 54,888 54,888 Percent change in Comparable Hotel RevPAR (4.2 )% Comparable hotel sales Room $ 1,937 $ 2,052 Food and beverage 1,061 1,091 Other 224 250 Comparable hotel sales(1) 3,222 3,393 Comparable hotel expenses Room 490 502 Food and beverage 791 798 Other 137 142 Management fees, ground rent and other costs 1,109 1,117 Comparable hotel expenses(2) 2,527 2,559 Comparable Hotel Adjusted Operating Profit 695 834 Non comparable hotel results, net(3) 43 13 Comparable hotels classified as held for sale(4) (7 ) (9 ) Office building and limited service properties, net 1 4 Other income 12 Depreciation and amortization (367 ) (358 ) Corporate and other expenses (61 ) (47 ) Operating Profit $ 316 $ 437 (1) The reconciliation of total revenues per the consolidated statements of operations to the comparable hotel sales is as follows (in millions): Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 Revenues per the consolidated statements of operations $ 3,448 $ 3,516 Revenues of hotels held for sale 42 44 Non comparable hotel sales (221 ) (172 ) Hotel sales for the property for which we record rental income, net 46 45 Rental income for office buildings and limited service hotels (75 ) (77 ) Other income (12 ) Adjustment for hotel sales for comparable hotels to reflect Marriotts fiscal year for Marriott managed hotels (6 ) 37 Comparable hotel sales $ 3,222 $ 3,393 (2) The reconciliation of operating costs per the consolidated statements of operations to the comparable hotel expenses is as follows (in millions): 40 Year endedDecember 31, 2003 2002 Operating costs and expenses per the consolidated statements of operations $ 3,132 $ 3,079 Operating costs of hotels held for sale 35 35 Non comparable hotel expenses (183 ) (155 ) Hotel expenses for the property for which we record rental income 50 48 Rent expense for office buildings and limited service hotels (74 ) (73 ) Adjustment for hotel expenses for comparable hotels to reflect Marriotts fiscal year for Marriott managed hotels (5 ) 30 Depreciation and amortization (367 ) (358 ) Corporate and other expenses (61 ) (47 ) Comparable hotel expenses $ 2,527 $ 2,559 (3) Non comparable hotel results, net includes the following items: (i) the results of operations of our non comparable hotels whose operations are included in our consolidated statements of operations as continuing operations and (ii) for 2003 and 2002 results, the difference between comparable hotel adjusted operating profit which reflects 364 days and 371 days, respectively, of operations and the operating results included in the consolidated statements of operations which reflects 365 days. (4) Results of operations for comparable hotels classified as held for sale whose results are included in discontinued operations in the consolidated statement of operations in accordance with SFAS 144. The following table provides a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common shareholders per share to FFO per diluted share (in millions, except per share amounts): Host Marriott Corporation Reconciliation of Net Loss Available to Common Shareholders to Funds From Operations per Diluted Share Year ended December 31, 2003 2002 Income(Loss) Shares Per ShareAmount Income(Loss) Shares Per ShareAmount Net loss available to common shareholders $ (21 ) 281.0 $ (.07 ) $ (51 ) 263.0 $ (.19 ) Adjustments: Gain on the disposition of the New York Marriott World Trade Center hotel (56 ) (.20 ) Gain on dispositions, net (9 ) (.04 ) (13 ) (.05 ) Depreciation and amortization 371 1.32 366 1.39 Partnership adjustments 24 .08 20 .07 FFO of minority partners of Host LP(a) (26 ) (.09 ) (30 ) (.11 ) Adjustments for dilutive securities: Assuming distribution of common shares granted under the comprehensive stock plan less shares assumed purchased at average market price 3.5 (.01 ) 4.0 (.02 ) Assuming conversion of Convertible Preferred Securities 32 30.9 FFO per diluted share(b) $ 283 284.5 $ .99 $ 324 297.9 $ 1.09 (a) Represents FFO attributable to the minority interest in Host LP. (b) FFO per diluted share in accordance with NAREIT is adjusted for the effects of dilutive securities. Dilutive securities may include shares granted under comprehensive stock plans, those preferred OP units held by minority partners, other minority interests that have the option to convert their limited partnership interest to common OP units and the Convertible Preferred Securities of Host Marriott. No effect is shown for securities if they are anti dilutive. 41 For 2003, the FFO per diluted share includes the following items: As a result of the World Trade Center insurance settlement in the fourth quarter of 2003, we recorded a gain of approximately $212 million, which is comprised of $156 million in post 2003 business interruption proceeds and $56 million from the disposition of the hotel. We excluded the $56 million gain on disposition from FFO in accordance with the NAREIT definition of FFO. In conjunction with the redemption of $711 million of our senior notes in the fourth quarter of 2003, we incurred a total of approximately $28 million of expense related to the call premiums paid and the acceleration of related deferred financing fees. We also incurred approximately $5 million of incremental interest expense during the redemption call period. In addition, we incurred approximately $2.3 million of call premiums and accelerated deferred financing fees related to a $71 million senior notes redemption in the third quarter of 2003. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we made a partial repayment of the Canadian mortgage debt, which resulted in the related forward currency contracts hedge being deemed ineffective for accounting purposes. Accordingly, we recorded an approximate $17 million decrease in net income and FFO in the fourth quarter in addition to the approximate $1 million recorded in the first three quarters of 2003. Approximately $9.6 million of other income in the third quarter of 2003 from the settlement of a claim that we brought against our directors and officers insurance carriers for reimbursement of defense costs and settlement payments incurred in resolving a series of related actions brought against us and Marriott International that arose from the sale of certain limited partnership units to investors prior to 1993. The settlement amount, net of taxes of approximately $2.4 million, totaled $7.2 million. New Accounting Pronouncements The FASB recently issued SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity, or SFAS 150. This statement requires issuers to classify as liabilities (or assets in some circumstances) three classes of freestanding financial instruments that embody obligations for the issuer. Previously, many such instruments had been classified as equity. A freestanding financial instrument is an instrument that is entered into separately and apart from any of the entitys other financial instruments or equity transactions, or that is entered into in conjunction with some other transaction and is legally detachable and separately exercisable, such as certain put and call options. These provisions are effective for financial instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003, and otherwise are effective at the beginning of the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. On October 8, 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance with respect to SFAS 150 that issuers whose financial statements include consolidated ventures with finite lives should reflect any minority interests in such consolidated ventures as a liability on the issuers financial statements presented at its fair value as of the applicable balance sheet date. Under SFAS 150, any fluctuation in the fair value of the minority interest from period to period would be recorded on the issuers financial statements as interest expense for the change in the fair value of the liability. As a result of applying SFAS 150 in accordance with this guidance from the FASB, in our third quarter 2003 Form 10 Q we recorded a loss from a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of $24 million. Additionally, we included in our liabilities as of September 12, 2003, minority interests with a fair value of $112 million. On November 7, 2003, the FASB issued a FASB Staff Position (FSP) 150 3 indefinitely deferring the application of a portion of SFAS 150 with respect to minority interests in consolidated ventures entered into prior to November 5, 2003, effectively reversing its guidance of October 8, 2003. In accordance with the FSP 150 3, in the fourth quarter of 2003 we recorded a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle reversing the impact of our adoption of SFAS 150 with respect to consolidated ventures with finite lives. We adopted Financial Interpretation No. 46 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46) in 2003. In December 2003, the FASB issued a revision to FIN 46, which we refer to as FIN 46R. Under this 42 guidance, our limited purpose trust subsidiary that was formed to issue trust preferred securities (the Convertible Preferred Securities Trust) is considered to be a special purpose entity because its activities are so restricted that Host Marriott, the sole equity holder, lacks the ability to make decisions about the Convertible Preferred Securities Trusts activities through voting or similar rights. The transition guidance set forth in FIN 46R allows us to apply the provisions of either FIN 46 or FIN 46R to special purpose entities in which we have a variable interest at December 31, 2003. We account for our Convertible Preferred Securities Trust on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2003 since we are the primary beneficiary under FIN 46 based on our fixed price call option and the holders of the Convertible Preferred Securities are widely dispersed and unrelated. We are required to apply the provisions of FIN 46R to the Convertible Preferred Securities Trust in the first quarter of 2004. Under FIN 46R we will not be the primary beneficiary and accordingly, we are required to deconsolidate the accounts of the Convertible Preferred Securities Trust. This will result in our recognizing the $492 million in debentures issued by Convertible Preferred Securities Trust as debt, eliminating the $475 million of Convertible Preferred Securities currently classified in the mezzanine section of our balance sheet and recognizing, as an equity investment, the $17 million invested in the Convertible Preferred Securities Trust. Additionally, we would classify the related dividend payments as interest expense. 43 QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest Rate Sensitivity The table below provides information about our derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including interest rate swaps and debt obligations. For debt obligations, the table presents scheduled maturities and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. For interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. Weighted average interest rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield curve as of December 31, 2003. Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. Weighted average variable rates are presented in U.S. dollar equivalents, which is our reporting currency. The interest rate swaps and caps that we have entered into are strictly to hedge interest rate risk and not for trading purposes. Expected Maturity Date 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter Total FairValue ($ in millions) Liabilities Debt: Fixed Rate $ 85 $ 63 $ 626 $ 860 $ 1,689 $ 1,983 $ 5,306 $ 5,415 Average interest rate 8.1 % 8.1 % 8.1 % 8.0 % 7.7 % 7.5 % Variable Rate Variable rate mortgages $ 1 $ 89 $ 53 $ $ $ $ 143 $ 140 Average interest rate 3.9 % 5.3 % 7.1 % % % % Total Debt(1) $ 5,449 $ 5,555 Interest Rate Derivatives Interest Rate Swaps Fixed to Variable $ $ $ $ 692 $ $ $ 692 $ 37 Average pay rate 6.1 % 7.5 % 8.7 % 9.4 % % Average receive rate 9.4 % 9.4 % 9.4 % 9.4 % % % (1) Excludes the fair market value of the swaps which were $37 million as of December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 2003, approximately 85% of our debt bears interest at fixed rates. This debt structure largely mitigates the impact of changes in interest rates. We have some financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including our credit facility. The interest rate on our credit facility is based on a spread over LIBOR, ranging from 2.5% to 3.75%. There were no amounts outstanding on our credit facility at December 31, 2003. Over time, we expect to decrease the proportion of fixed rate debt on our capital structure to 75% to 80% of our total debt, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to achieve this result on terms acceptable to us. In furtherance of this objective, we have entered into three interest rate swaps effectively converting $692 million of fixed rate payments to floating rate payments based on a spread to LIBOR. On December 20, 2001, we entered into a 5 year interest rate swap agreement, which was effective on January 15, 2002 and matures in January 2007, effectively converting our Series I senior notes to floating rate debt. Under the swap, we receive fixed rate payments of 9.5% and pay floating rate payments based on one month LIBOR plus 450 basis points on a $450 million notional amount. We have designated the interest rate swap as a fair value hedge for both financial reporting and tax purposes and the amounts paid or received under the swap agreement will be recognized over the life of the agreement as an adjustment to interest expense. Changes in the fair value of the swap and the Series I notes are reflected in the balance sheet as offsetting changes and have no income statement effect. The fair value of the interest rate swap at December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002 was $34.5 million and $40.3 million, respectively, which is included in the senior notes line item on our consolidated balance sheet. 44 On August 21, 2003, we entered into two four year interest rate swap agreements, which mature October 2007, effectively converting our Series G senior notes to floating rate debt. Under the swaps, we receive fixed rate payments of 9.25% and we make floating rate payments based on six month LIBOR plus 590 basis points on a $242 million notional amount, which is equal to the current amount of outstanding Series G senior notes. We have designated the interest rate swaps as fair value hedges for both financial reporting and tax purposes and the amounts paid or received under the swap agreements will be recognized over the life of the agreements as an adjustment to interest expense. Changes in the fair value of the swaps and our Series G senior notes are reflected in the balance sheet as offsetting changes and have no income statement effect. The fair value of the interest rate swaps at December 31, 2003 was $2.3 million, which is included in the senior notes line item on our consolidated balance sheet. A change in LIBOR of 100 basis points will result in a $6.9 million increase or decrease in our annual interest expense as a result of the combined $692 million in swap agreements. In addition, on September 9, 2003, we refinanced the $95 million fixed rate mortgage debt secured by the JW Marriott in Washington, D.C. with an $88 million floating rate mortgage loan with an interest rate of one month LIBOR plus 210 basis points. The loan matures September 2005, but can be extended for up to three additional years subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. We also have approximately $55 million of floating rate mortgage debt associated with three of our Canadian properties. See below for further information. Exchange Rate Sensitivity Foreign Currency Forward Exchange Agreements The table below summarizes information on instruments and transactions that are sensitive to foreign currency exchange rates, including foreign currency forward exchange agreements as of December 31, 2003. The foreign currency exchange agreements that we have entered into are strictly to hedge foreign currency risk and not for trading purposes. For foreign currency forward exchange agreements, the table presents the notional amounts and weighted average exchange rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. These notional amounts generally are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. Expected Maturity Date 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total FairValue ($ in millions) Anticipated Transactions and Related Derivatives Foreign Currency Forward Exchange Agreements Contract Amount $ 7 $ 7 $ 57 $ $ $ 71 $ (12 ) Average Contractual Exchange Rate 1.56 1.57 1.57 On August 30, 2001, our Canadian subsidiaries entered into a mortgage loan pursuant to which they borrowed $96.6 million (denominated in U.S. dollars) at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 2.75%. The weighted average interest rate for this mortgage loan was 4.5% and 4.6%, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002. In addition, since the mortgage loan on these Canadian properties is denominated in U.S. Dollars and the functional currency of the Canadian subsidiaries is the Canadian Dollar, the subsidiaries entered into currency forward contracts to hedge the currency exposure of converting Canadian dollars to U.S. dollars on a monthly basis to cover debt service payments. Up until April 2003 as discussed in Debt, these forward exchange contracts had been designated as a cash flow hedges of the debt service payments, and the forward contracts were recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with offsetting changes recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2003, substantially all of the remaining forward contracts are not designated as a hedge and accordingly the change in fair value is recorded in operations each period. The fair value of the forward contracts was $(12.3) million and $3.8 million, respectively, at December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002. 45 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS In this report on Form 10 K and the information incorporated by reference herein we make some forward looking statements. These statements are included throughout this report on Form 10 K and the information incorporated by reference herein, including in the section entitled Risk Factors and relate to, among other things, analyses and other information based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These forward looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, predict, project, will, continue, and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions. These forward looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by us in those statements include, among others, the following: national and local economic and business conditions and changes in travel patterns, including the effect of terror alerts and potential terrorist activity on travel, that will affect, among other things, demand for products and services at our hotels, the level of room rates and occupancy that can be achieved by such properties and the availability and terms of financing and our liquidity; changes in taxes and government regulations that influence or determine wages, prices, construction procedures and costs; our ability to maintain properties in a first class manner, including meeting capital expenditure requirements; our ability to compete effectively in areas such as access, location, quality of accommodations and room rate; our ability to acquire or develop additional properties and the risk that potential acquisitions or developments may not perform in accordance with expectations; our degree of leverage, which may affect our ability to obtain financing in the future; the reduction in our operating flexibility and our ability to pay dividends resulting from restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, including the risk of default that could occur; government approvals, actions and initiatives, including the need for compliance with environmental and safety requirements, and changes in laws and regulations or the interpretation thereof; the effects of tax legislative action; our ability to continue to satisfy complex rules in order for us to maintain REIT status for Federal income tax purposes, the ability of the operating partnership to satisfy the rules to maintain its status as a partnership for Federal income tax purposes, the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to maintain their status as taxable REIT subsidiaries for Federal income tax purposes, and our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to operate effectively within the limitations imposed by these rules; the effect of any rating agency downgrades on the cost and availability of new debt financings; the relatively fixed nature of our property level operating costs and expenses; our ability to recover fully under our existing insurance for terrorist acts and our ability to maintain adequate or full replacement cost all risk property insurance on our properties; and other factors discussed below under the heading Risk Factors and in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the Commission. Although we believe the expectations reflected in our forward looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that we will attain these expectations or that any deviations will not be material. Except as otherwise required by the federal securities laws, we disclaim any obligation or undertaking to publicly release any updates or revisions to any forward looking statement contained in this annual report on Form 10 K and the information incorporated by reference herein to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. 46 RISK FACTORS Prospective investors should carefully consider, among other factors, the material risks described below. Financial Risks and Risks of Operation We depend on external sources of capital for future growth and we may be unable to access capital when necessary. Unlike corporations, our ability to reduce our debt and finance our growth largely must be funded by external sources of capital because we are generally required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income in order to qualify as a REIT, including taxable income we recognize for tax purposes but with regard to which we do not receive corresponding cash. Our ability to access the external capital we require could be hampered by a number of factors many of which are outside of our control, including, without limitation, declining general market conditions, unfavorable market perception of our growth potential, decreases in our current and estimated future earnings, excessive cash distributions or decreases in the market price of our common stock. In addition, our ability to access additional capital may also be limited by the terms of our existing indebtedness, which, among other things, restricts our incurrence of debt and the payment of distributions. The occurrence of any of these above mentioned factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the external capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us or at all and the failure to obtain necessary external capital could have a material adverse affect our ability to finance our future growth. We have substantial leverage. We have a significant amount of indebtedness and that could have important consequences. It currently requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, distributions to our stockholders and other general purposes. Additionally, our high level of indebtedness could: limit our ability in the future to undertake refinancings of our indebtedness or obtain financing for expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate or business purposes; or affect adversely our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic conditions. If our cash flow and working capital were not sufficient to fund our expenditures or service our indebtedness, we would have to raise additional funds through: the sale of our equity; the incurrence of additional permitted indebtedness by the Operating Partnership; or the sale of our assets. We cannot assure you that any of these sources of funds would be available to us or, if available, would be on terms that we would find acceptable or in amounts sufficient for us to meet our obligations or fulfill our business plan. Our revenues and the value of our properties are subject to conditions affecting the lodging industry. The lodging industry has experienced a difficult period, and operations have generally been declining for the past several years, which has caused declines in our revenue per available room, or RevPAR, and profit margins. The decline in the lodging industry has been attributed to a number of factors including a weak economy, the effect of terror alerts and potential terrorist activity in the United States and the war in Iraq, all of which have changed the travel patterns of both business and leisure travelers. It is not clear whether these changes are permanent or whether they will continue to evolve creating new opportunities or difficulties for the industry. Any forecast we make regarding our results of operations may be affected and can change based on the following risks: changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; 47 reduced demand and increased operating costs and other conditions resulting from terrorist threats; changes in business and leisure travel patterns; local market conditions such as an oversupply of hotel rooms or a reduction in lodging demand; the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers relative to our competition; the performance of the managers of our hotels; changes in room rates and increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors; and unionization of the labor force at our hotels. Our expenses may not decrease if our revenue drops. Many of the expenses associated with owning and operating hotels, such as debt payments, property taxes, insurance, utilities, and employee wages and benefits, are relatively inflexible and do not necessarily decrease in tandem with a reduction in revenue at the property. Because of weak economic conditions over the last several years, particularly in the lodging industry, we have been working with our managers to reduce the operating costs of our hotels. While we have achieved reductions in operating costs as a result of these efforts, further cost reductions could be difficult to achieve if operating levels continue to decline. Some of the cost reduction efforts undertaken may eventually need to be reversed even if operations remain at reduced levels. Regardless of these efforts to reduce costs, our expenses will be affected by inflationary increases, and in the case of certain costs, such as wages, benefits and insurance, may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period. Our managers may be unable to offset any such increased expenses with higher room rates. Any of our efforts to reduce operating costs or failure to make scheduled capital expenditures could adversely affect the growth of our business and the value of our hotel properties. Our revenues may be affected by increased use of reservation systems based on the Internet. Although a majority of the rooms sold on the Internet are sold through websites maintained by our managers, a growing number of rooms are also sold through independent Internet sites. These independent Internet sites often purchase rooms at a negotiated discount from participating properties, which could result in lower average room rates compared to the room rates offered by the manager on its website. While we do not believe that price is the only factor considered when choosing our properties, if the room rate available to consumers using the independent Internet sites were to be significantly lower than those offered by our managers on their websites our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ground lease payments may increase faster than the revenues we receive on the hotels situated on the leased properties. As of February 15, 2004, forty of our hotels are subject to ground leases. These ground leases generally require increases in ground rent payments every five years. Our ability to service our debt could be adversely affected to the extent that our revenues do not increase at the same or a greater rate than the increases in rental payments under the ground leases. In addition, if we were to sell a hotel encumbered by a ground lease, the buyer would have to assume the ground lease, which may result in a lower sales price. We do not control our hotel operations and we are dependent on the managers of our hotels. Because federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating a hotel, we do not manage our hotels. Instead, we lease substantially all of our full service properties to subsidiaries that qualify as a taxable REIT subsidiaries under applicable REIT laws, and our taxable REIT subsidiaries retain third party managers to manage our hotels pursuant to management agreements. Our income from the hotels may be adversely affected if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they fail to maintain a quality brand name. While our taxable REIT subsidiaries monitor the hotel managers performance, we have limited specific recourse under our management agreements if we believe that the hotel managers are not performing adequately. In addition, from time to time, we have had, and continue to have, differences with the managers of our hotels over their performance and compliance with the terms of our management agreements. We generally resolve issues with our managers through discussions and negotiations. However, if we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate such a dispute. 48 Failure by our hotel managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our hotel managers manage, and in some cases own or have invested in, hotels that compete with our hotels, which may result in conflicts of interest. As a result, our managers have in the past made and may in the future make decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not or would not be in our best interests. The terms of our debt place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, reducing operational flexibility and creating default risks. The documents governing the terms of the senior notes and credit facility of the operating partnership contain covenants that place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. The activities upon which such restrictions exist include, but are not limited to: acquisitions, mergers and consolidations; the incurrence of additional debt; the creation of liens; the sale of assets; capital expenditures; raising capital from the issuance of certain types of mandatorily redeemable capital stock; the payment of dividends; and transactions with affiliates. In addition, certain covenants in the credit facility of the operating partnership require it and our other subsidiaries to meet financial performance tests. The restrictive covenants in the indenture, the credit facility and the documents governing our other debt (including our mortgage debt) will reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations and will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long term best interest. The operating partnerships failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. Our mortgage debt contains provisions that may reduce our liquidity. Certain of our mortgage debt requires that, to the extent cash flow from the hotels which secure such debt drops below stated levels, we escrow cash flow after the payment of debt service until operations improve above the stated levels. In some cases, the escrowed amount may be applied to the outstanding balance of the mortgage debt. When such provisions are triggered, there can be no assurance that the affected properties will achieve the minimum cash flow levels required to trigger a release of any escrowed funds. The amounts required to be escrowed may be material and may negatively affect our liquidity by limiting our access to cash flow after debt service from these mortgaged properties. Our future cash distributions on preferred and common stock may be limited by the terms of our indebtedness and in addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be further limited by the terms of our preferred stock. Under the terms of our credit facility and our senior notes indenture, distributions to us by the operating partnership, which we depend upon in order to obtain the cash necessary to pay dividends, are permitted only to the extent that, at the time of the distributions, the operating partnership can satisfy certain financial covenant tests and meet other requirements. For example, to make distributions to us, the operating partnership must in general have a consolidated coverage ratio (measuring the pro forma ratio of its consolidated EBITDA to its consolidated interest expense) of 2.0 to 1.0 or greater. In addition, the aggregate amount of all of our debt, not including our Convertible Preferred Securities, must be less than or equal to 65% of our total assets plus accumulated depreciation. If it fails to meet these requirements, the operating partnership will only be able to make cash distributions to us, subject to compliance with certain other requirements, in the amounts required to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We are currently required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income to maintain our status as a REIT. As of December 31, 2003, we 49 remained under the 2.0 to 1.0 EBITDA to interest coverage ratio. Accordingly, we will be able to pay dividends only to the extent that we have taxable income and are required to make distributions to maintain our status as a REIT. Under the terms of each of our class A, class B and class C cumulative redeemable preferred stock, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock unless cumulative dividends have been paid (or funds for payment have been set aside for payment) on each such class of preferred stock. Therefore, our ability to pay a dividend on our common stock is subject to our having previously paid all cumulative dividends accrued on our outstanding classes of preferred stock. Our ability to pay dividends on our preferred and common stock is also limited by the terms of our Convertible Preferred Securities. The payment of any dividends on either common or preferred shares depends on operating performance and its impact on current and prior year taxable income and whether our EBITDA to interest ratio is below 2.0 to 1.0 coverage for the fiscal year. We cannot provide assurance that our operations will be sufficient to permit us to pay a dividend on our common stock or preferred stock. Rating Agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. Both our senior notes and our preferred stock are rated by independent rating agencies, such as Moodys and Standard & Poors. These rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our corporate debt and our preferred stock at any time. These downgrades negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital. Our management agreements could impair the sale or financing of our hotels. Under the terms of our management agreements, we generally may not sell, lease or otherwise transfer the hotels unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related management agreements and meets specified other conditions. Our ability to finance or sell any of the properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require the managers consent. If, in these circumstances, the manager does not consent, we would be prohibited from taking actions in our best interest without breaching the management agreement. The acquisition contracts relating to some hotels limit our ability to sell or refinance those hotels. For reasons relating to tax considerations of the former and current owners of nine hotels, we have agreed to restrictions on selling the hotels, or repaying or refinancing the mortgage debt for varying periods depending on the hotel. We have also agreed not to sell more than 50% of the original allocated value attributable to the former owners of a portfolio of 11 additional hotels, or to take other actions that would result in the recognition and allocation of gain to the former owners of such hotels for income tax purposes. We anticipate that, in specified circumstances, we may agree to similar restrictions in connection with future hotel acquisitions. As a result, even if it were in our best interests to sell these hotels or repay or otherwise reduce the level of the mortgage debt on such hotels, it may be difficult or costly to do so during their respective lock out periods. We may be unable to sell properties because real estate investments are illiquid. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. The inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to service our debt. In addition, there are limitations under the federal tax laws applicable to REITs that may limit our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. We depend on our key personnel. Our success depends on the efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. None of our key personnel have employment agreements and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers. We cannot assure you that these key personnel will remain employed by us. While we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could have a significant adverse effect on our financial performance. 50 Litigation judgments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are a party to various lawsuits, including lawsuits relating to our conversion into a REIT. While we and the other defendants to such lawsuits believe all of the lawsuits in which we are a defendant are without merit and we are vigorously defending against such claims, we can give no assurance as to the outcome of any of the lawsuits. If any of the lawsuits were to be determined adversely to us or a settlement involving a payment of a material sum of money were to occur, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may acquire hotel properties through joint ventures with third parties that could result in conflicts. Instead of purchasing hotel properties directly, we may invest as a co venturer. Joint venturers often share control over the operation of the joint venture assets. For example, we entered into a joint venture with Marriott International that owns two limited partnerships holding, in the aggregate, 120 Courtyard by Marriott hotels. Subsidiaries of Marriott International manage these Courtyard by Marriott hotels and other subsidiaries of Marriott International serve as ground lessors and mezzanine lender to the partnerships. Actions by a co venturer could subject the assets to additional risk, including: our co venturer in an investment might have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our, or the joint ventures, interests or goals; our co venturer may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives; or our co venturer could go bankrupt, leaving us liable for its share of joint venture liabilities. Although we generally will seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture to permit our objectives to be achieved, we might not be able to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. Also, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Environmental problems are possible and can be costly. We believe that our properties are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws. Unidentified environmental liabilities could arise, however, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property. The owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean up costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. These laws typically impose clean up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean up costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. These laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. Compliance with other government regulations can be costly. Our hotels are subject to various other forms of regulation, including Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act, building codes and regulations pertaining to fire safety. Compliance with those laws and regulations could require substantial capital expenditures. These regulations may be changed from time to time, or new regulations adopted, resulting in additional costs of compliance, including potential litigation. Any increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Future terrorist attacks or changes in terror alert levels could adversely affect us. Previous terrorist attacks in the United States have adversely affected the travel and hospitality industries, including the full service 51 portion of the hotel industry. The impact which terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere could have on our business in particular and the U.S. economy, the global economy and global financial markets in general is indeterminable. It is possible that such attacks or the threat of such attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to finance our business, our ability to insure our properties and on our results of operations and financial condition as a whole. Some potential losses are not covered by insurance. We carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to all of our hotels and other properties. These policies offer coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary for similar type properties. Generally, our all risk property policies provide that coverage is available on a per occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, there is an overall limit as well as various sub limits on the amount of insurance proceeds we can receive. Sub limits exist for certain types of claims such as service interruption, abatement, earthquakes, expediting costs or landscaping replacement, and the dollar amounts of these sub limits are significantly lower than the dollar amounts of the overall coverage limit. Our property policies also provide that all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the aggregate limits and sub limits contained in our policies have been exceeded and, in the case of our hotels where the manager provides this coverage, any such claims will also be combined with the claims of other owners participating in the managers program for the same purpose. That means that, if an insurable event occurs that affects more than one of our hotels, or, in the case of hotels where coverage is provided by the management company, affects hotels owned by others, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the aggregate limit or sub limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached and each affected hotel will only receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy. We may incur losses in excess of insured limits and, as a result, we may be even less likely to receive sufficient coverage for risks that affect multiple properties such as earthquakes or certain types of terrorism. In addition, there are other risks such as war, certain forms of terrorism such as nuclear, biological or chemical terrorism and some environmental hazards that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or may be too expensive to justify insuring against. If any such risk were to materialize and materially adversely affect one or more of our properties, we would likely not be able to recover our losses. We may also encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. Should a loss in excess of insured limits or an uninsured loss occur or should we be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage from an insurance carrier, we could lose all, or a portion of, the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We may not be able to recover fully under our existing terrorism insurance for losses caused by some types of terrorist acts, and federal terrorism legislation does not ensure that we will be able to obtain terrorism insurance in adequate amounts or at acceptable premium levels in the future. As a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, most insurers ceased to offer terrorism coverage in conjunction with all risk property policies (described below), and the main source of property terrorism coverage became separate standalone terrorism insurance policies offering limited coverage amounts with high premium levels. We have procured such standalone terrorism coverage, which is subject to annual aggregate limits which fall below the full replacement cost of certain high value properties, and with more limited coverage than the all risk program shared among various hotels. On November 26, 2002, the Federal Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (TRIA) required all risk and liability insurers who had excluded or limited terrorism coverage to remove the exclusion in exchange for requiring insureds to pay an additional premium for the coverage within a specified time period. Because our liability policies generally offered terrorism coverage, TRIA mainly impacts our all risk insurance. 52 We, through Marriott International and our broker for certain of our non Marriott International properties, purchased the additional TRIA terrorism coverage. The original standalone policies were allowed to expire. This terrorism coverage, compared to standalone coverage, offers the higher limits and more comprehensive coverage associated with our all risk programs. However, as noted above, the all risk program also has limitations such as per occurrence limits and sublimits which might have to be shared proportionally across participating hotels under certain loss scenarios. All risk insurers also only have to provide TRIA related coverage for certified acts of terrorism namely those which are committed on behalf of non United States persons or interests. Further, we do not have full replacement coverage at all of our properties for acts of terrorism committed on behalf of United States persons or interests, as our coverage for such incidents is limited to that provided by a new standalone program, or an endorsement to the policy covering our non Marriott properties, and their aggregate limits. In addition, property damage related to war and to nuclear incidents is excluded under our standalone terrorism policy. The all risk policy also excludes coverage for chemical and biological incidents, and it is unclear whether these incidents would be covered under our other standalone policy. While TRIA will reimburse insurers for losses resulting from nuclear, biological and chemical perils, TRIA does not require insurers to offer coverage for these perils and, to date, insurers are not willing to provide this coverage, even with government reinsurance. In addition, TRIA terminates on December 31, 2005, and there is no guarantee that the terrorism coverage that it mandates will be readily available or affordable thereafter. As a result of the above, there remains considerable uncertainty regarding the extent and adequacy of terrorism coverage that will be available to protect our interests in the event of future terrorist attacks that impact our properties. Risks of Ownership of our Common Stock There are limitations on the acquisition of our common stock and changes in control. Our charter and bylaws, the partnership agreement of the operating partnership, our stockholder rights plan and the Maryland General Corporation Law contain a number of provisions, the exercise of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control of us that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following: Ownership limit. The 9.8% ownership limit described under Risk Factors Risks of Ownership of our Common Stock There are possible adverse consequences of limits on ownership of our common stock may have the effect of precluding a change in control of us by a third party without the consent of our Board of Directors, even if the change in control would be in the interest of our stockholders, and even if the change in control would not reasonably jeopardize our real estate investment trust, or REIT, status. Staggered board. Our charter provides that our number of directors may be increased or decreased according to our bylaws, provided that the total number of directors is not less than three nor more than 13. Pursuant to our bylaws, the number of directors will be fixed by our Board of Directors within the limits in our charter. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes of directors. Directors for each class are chosen for a three year term when the term of the current class expires. The staggered terms for directors may affect stockholders ability to effect a change in control of us, even if a change in control would be in the interest of our stockholders. Currently, there are seven directors. Removal of board of directors. Our charter provides that, except for any directors who may be elected by holders of a class or series of shares of capital stock other than our common stock, directors may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least two thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast for the election of directors. Vacancies on the Board of Directors may be filled by the concurring vote of a majority of the remaining directors and, in the case of a vacancy resulting from the removal of a director by the stockholders, by at least two thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. Preferred shares; classification or reclassification of unissued shares of capital stock without stockholder approval. Our charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes that we have authority to issue is 800,000,000, initially consisting of 750,000,000 shares of common stock 53 and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 14,173,182 shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2003. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without a vote of stockholders, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock, including common stock into preferred stock or vice versa, and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred or other class or series of shares to be issued. The issuance of preferred shares or other shares having special preferences or rights could delay, defer or prevent a change in control even if a change in control would be in the interests of our stockholders. Because our Board of Directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of additional classes or series of shares without a stockholder vote, our Board of Directors may give the holders of any class or series preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of our common stock. Consent rights of the limited partners. Under the partnership agreement of the operating partnership, we generally will be able to merge or consolidate with another entity with the consent of partners holding limited percentage interests that are more than 50% of the aggregate percentage interests of the outstanding limited partnership interests entitled to vote on the merger or consolidation, including any limited partnership interests held by us, as long as the holders of limited partnership interests either receive or have the right to receive the same consideration as our stockholders. We, as holder of a majority of the limited partnership interests, would be able to control the vote. Under our charter, holders of at least two thirds of our outstanding shares of common stock generally must approve the merger or consolidation. Maryland business combination law. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, specified business combinations, including specified issuances of equity securities, between a Maryland corporation and any person who owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporations then outstanding shares, or an interested stockholder, or an affiliate of the interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Thereafter, any of these specified business combinations must be approved by 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of outstanding voting shares and by two thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of voting shares other than voting shares held by an interested stockholder unless, among other conditions, the corporations common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the Maryland General Corporation Law, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder. We are subject to the Maryland business combination statute. Maryland control share acquisition law. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, control shares acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquiror, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation. Control shares are voting shares which, if aggregated with all other voting shares previously acquired by the acquiror or over which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (1) one tenth or more but less than one third, (2) one third or more but less than a majority or (3) a majority or more of the voting power. Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder approval. A control share acquisition means the acquisition of control shares, subject to specified exceptions. We are subject to these control share provisions of Maryland law. Merger, consolidation, share exchange and transfer of our assets. Pursuant to our charter, subject to the terms of any outstanding class or series of capital stock, we can merge with or into another entity, consolidate with one or more other entities, participate in a share exchange or transfer our assets within the meaning of the Maryland General Corporation Law if approved (1) by our Board of Directors in the manner provided in the Maryland General Corporation Law and (2) by our stockholders holding two thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, except that any merger of us with or into a trust organized for the purpose of changing our form of organization from a corporation to a trust requires 54 only the approval of our stockholders holding a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the merger. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, specified mergers may be approved without a vote of stockholders and a share exchange is only required to be approved by a Maryland corporation by its Board of Directors if the corporation is the successor. Our voluntary dissolution also would require approval of stockholders holding two thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Amendments to our charter and bylaws. Our charter contains provisions relating to restrictions on transferability of our common stock, the classified Board of Directors, fixing the size of our Board of Directors within the range set forth in our charter, removal of directors and the filling of vacancies, all of which may be amended only by a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors and approved by our stockholders holding two thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Amendments of this provision of our charter also would require action of our Board of Directors and approval by stockholders holding two thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. As permitted under the Maryland General Corporation Law, our bylaws provide that directors have the exclusive right to amend our bylaws. Stockholder rights plan. We adopted a stockholder rights plan which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, our stockholders will be entitled to purchase from us a newly created class or series of junior preferred shares, subject to our ownership limit described below. The preferred share purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (1) ten days after the date of a public announcement that a person or group acting in concert has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock or (2) ten business days after the commencement of or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the acquiring person becoming the beneficial owner of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. The exercise of the preferred share purchase rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. There are possible adverse consequences of limits on ownership of our common stock. To maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include some entities. In addition, a person who owns, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of an interest in a tenant of ours, or a tenant of any partnership in which we are a partner, cannot own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of our shares without jeopardizing our qualification as a REIT. Primarily to facilitate maintenance of our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the ownership limit under our charter prohibits ownership, directly or by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, by any person or persons acting as a group, of more than 9.8% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, subject to an exception for shares of our common stock held prior to our conversion into a REIT (referred to as the REIT conversion) so long as the holder would not own more than 9.9% in value of our outstanding shares after the REIT conversion, and prohibits ownership, directly or by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, by any person, or persons acting as a group, of more than 9.8% of the issued and outstanding shares of any class or series of our preferred shares. Together, these limitations are referred to as the ownership limit. Our Board of Directors, in its sole and absolute discretion, may waive or modify the ownership limit with respect to one or more persons who would not be treated as individuals for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code if the Board of Directors is satisfied, based upon information required to be provided by the party seeking the waiver and, if it determines necessary or advisable, upon an opinion of counsel satisfactory to our Board of Directors, that ownership in excess of this limit will not cause a person who is an individual to be treated as owning shares in excess of the ownership limit, applying the applicable constructive ownership rules, and will not otherwise jeopardize our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes (for example, by causing any of our tenants to be considered a related party tenant for purposes of the REIT qualification rules). Common stock acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred automatically to a trust for the benefit of a 55 designated charitable beneficiary, and the person who acquired the common stock in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any distributions thereon, to vote those shares of common stock or to receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the common stock in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the common stock or the amount realized from the sale. A transfer of shares of our common stock to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the ownership limit may be void under certain circumstances, and, in any event, would deny that person any of the economic benefits of owning shares of our common stock in excess of the ownership limit. The ownership limit may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control and, therefore, could adversely affect the stockholders ability to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for our common stock in connection with such transaction. Shares of our common stock that are or become available for sale could affect the price for shares of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, holders of units of limited partnership interest in the operating partnership (referred to as OP Units), whose OP Units are redeemed by the operating partnership in exchange for common stock, will be able to sell those shares freely, unless the person is our affiliate and resale of the affiliates shares is not covered by an effective registration statement. As of December 31, 2003, there are approximately 23.5 million OP Units outstanding, all of which are currently redeemable. Further, a substantial number of shares of our common stock have been and will be issued or reserved for issuance from time to time under our employee benefit plans, including shares of our common stock reserved for options, and these shares of common stock would be available for sale in the public markets from time to time pursuant to exemptions from registration or upon registration. Moreover, additional shares of our common stock issued by us would be available in the future for sale in the public markets. We can make no prediction about the effect that future sales of our common stock would have on the market price of our common stock. Our earnings and cash distributions will affect the market price of shares of our common stock. We believe that the market value of a REITs equity securities is based primarily upon the markets perception of the REITs growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales, acquisitions, development or refinancings, and is secondarily based upon the value of the underlying assets. For that reason, shares of our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. To the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes rather than distributing the cash flow to stockholders, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Our failure to meet the markets expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Market interest rates may affect the price of shares of our common stock. We believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a REIT is the distribution rate on the shares, considered as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of REIT shares may expect a higher distribution rate. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our shares to go down. Federal Income Tax Risks Recent changes in taxable of corporate dividends may adversely affect the value of our stock. While corporate dividends have traditionally been taxed at ordinary income rates, dividends received by individuals through December 31, 2008 from regular C corporations generally will be taxed at the maximum capital gains tax rate of 15% as opposed to the maximum ordinary income tax rate of 35%. REIT dividends are not eligible for the lower capital gains rates, except in certain circumstances where the dividends are attributable to income that has been subject to corporate level tax. While the earnings of a REIT that are distributed to its stockholders generally will be subject to less federal income taxation than earnings of a non REIT C corporation that are distributed to its stockholders net of corporate level income tax, this difference in the taxation of dividends could cause individual investors to view the stock of regular C corporations as more attractive relative to the stock of REITs. Individual investors could hold this view because the dividends from regular C corporations will 56 generally be taxed at a lower rate while dividends from REITs will generally be taxed at the same rate as the individuals other ordinary income. We cannot predict what effect, if any, this difference in the taxation of dividends may have on the value of the stock of REITs, either in terms of price or relative to other potential investments. To qualify as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income, irrespective of our available cash or outstanding obligations. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we currently are required to distribute to our stockholders with respect to each year at least 90% of our taxable income, excluding net capital gain. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions made by us with respect to the calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income and 95% of our capital gain net income for that year and any undistributed taxable income from prior periods less excess distributions from prior years. We intend to make distributions, subject to the availability of cash and in compliance with any debt covenants, to our stockholders to comply with the distribution requirement and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax and will rely for this purpose on distributions from the operating partnership. However, there are differences in timing between our recognition of taxable income and our receipt of cash available for distribution due to, among other things, the seasonality of the lodging industry and the fact that some taxable income will be phantom income, which is taxable income that is not matched by cash flow to us. Due to some transactions entered into in years prior to the REIT conversion, we could recognize substantial amounts of phantom income. It is possible that these timing differences could require us to borrow funds or to issue additional equity to enable us to meet the distribution requirement and, therefore, to maintain our REIT status, and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax. In addition, because the REIT distribution requirements prevent us from retaining earnings, we will generally be required to refinance debt that matures with additional debt or equity. We cannot assure you that any of the sources of funds, if available at all, would be sufficient to meet our distribution and tax obligations. Adverse tax consequences would apply if we failed to qualify as a REIT. We believe that we have been organized and have operated in such a manner so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, commencing with our taxable year beginning January 1, 1999, and we currently intend to continue to operate as a REIT during future years. No assurance can be provided, however, that we qualify as a REIT or that new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the tax laws with respect to our qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of our REIT qualification. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be allowed to take a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income, and we will be subject to Federal and state income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. In addition, unless entitled to statutory relief, we would not qualify as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which REIT qualification is lost. Any determination that we do not qualify as a REIT would have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and could reduce the value of our common stock materially. The additional tax liability to us for the year or years in which we did not qualify would reduce our net earnings available for investment, debt service or distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, we would no longer be required to make any distributions to stockholders as a condition to REIT qualification and all of our distributions to stockholders would be taxable as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, or E&P. This means that stockholders taxed as individuals currently would be taxes on those dividends at capital gains rates and corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject in each case, to applicable limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. Our failure to qualify as a REIT also would cause an event of default under our credit facility that could lead to an acceleration of the amounts due under the credit facility, which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under our outstanding debt securities. We will be disqualified as a REIT at least for taxable year 1999 if we failed to distribute all of our E&P attributable to our non REIT taxable years. In order to qualify as a REIT, we cannot have at the end of any taxable year any undistributed E&P that is attributable to one of our non REIT taxable years. A REIT has until the close of its first taxable year as a REIT in which it has non REIT E&P to distribute its accumulated 57 E&P. We were required to have distributed this E&P prior to the end of 1999, the first taxable year for which our REIT election was effective. If we failed to do this, we will be disqualified as a REIT at least for taxable year 1999. We believe that distributions of non REIT E&P that we made were sufficient to distribute all of the non REIT E&P as of December 31, 1999, but we cannot provide assurance that we met this requirement. If our leases are not respected as true leases for Federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy two gross income tests, under which specified percentages of our gross income must be passive income, like rent. For the rent paid pursuant to the leases, which constitutes substantially all of our gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for Federal income tax purposes and not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. In addition, the lessees must not be regarded as related party tenants, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. We believe that the leases will be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will agree with this view. We also believe that Crestline, the lessee of substantially all of our full service hotels prior to January 1, 2001, was not a related party tenant and, as a result of changes in the tax laws effective January 1, 2001, HMT Lessee, LLC, or HMT Lessee, will not be treated as a related party tenant so long as it qualifies as a taxable REIT subsidiary. If the leases were not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes or if the lessees were regarded as related party tenants, we would not be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs and we would lose our REIT status. See Risk Factors Federal Income Tax Risks Adverse tax consequences would apply if we failed to qualify as a REIT above. If HMT Lessee LLC fails to qualify as a taxable REIT subsidiary, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. For our taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2001, as a result of REIT tax law changes under the specific provisions of the Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Improvement Act of 1999, which we refer to as the REIT Modernization Act, we are permitted to lease our hotels to a subsidiary of the operating partnership that is taxable as a corporation and that elects to be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Accordingly, HMT Lessee has directly or indirectly acquired all of the full service hotel leasehold interests from third parties. So long as HMT Lessee and other affiliated lessees qualify as taxable REIT subsidiaries of ours, they will not be treated as related party tenants. We believe that HMT Lessee qualifies to be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary for federal income tax purposes. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will not challenge its status as a taxable REIT subsidiary for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in disqualifying HMT Lessee from treatment as a taxable REIT subsidiary, we would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to REITs and substantially all of our income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests and, accordingly, we would cease to qualify as a REIT. See Risk Factors Federal Income Tax Risks Adverse tax consequences would apply if we failed to qualify as a REIT above. Despite our REIT status, we remain subject to various taxes, including substantial deferred and contingent tax liabilities. Notwithstanding our status as a REIT, we are subject, through our ownership interest in the operating partnership, to certain Federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and property. In addition, we will be required to pay Federal income tax at the highest regular corporate rate upon our share of any built in gain recognized as a result of any sale before January 1, 2009, by the operating partnership of assets, including the hotels, in which interests were acquired by the operating partnership from our predecessor and its subsidiaries as part of the REIT conversion. Built in gain is the amount by which an assets fair market value exceeded our adjusted basis in the asset on January 1, 1999, the first day of our first taxable year as a REIT. The total amount of gain on which we would be subject to corporate income tax if the assets that we held at the time of the REIT conversion were sold in a taxable transaction prior to January 1, 2009 would be material to us. In addition, at the time of the REIT conversion, we expected that we or Rockledge Hotel Properties, Inc. or Fernwood Hotel Assets, Inc., or Rockledge and Fernwood, respectively (each of which is a taxable corporation in which the operating partnership owned a 95% nonvoting interest and, as of April, 2001, acquired 100% of the voting interests and each of which, elected to be a taxable REIT subsidiary effective January 1, 2001), likely would recognize substantial built in gain and deferred tax liabilities in the next ten years without any 58 corresponding receipt of cash by us or the operating partnership. We may have to pay certain state income taxes because not all states treat REITs the same as they are treated for federal income tax purposes. We may also have to pay certain foreign taxes to the extent we own assets or conduct operations in foreign jurisdictions. The operating partnership is obligated under its partnership agreement to pay all such taxes (and any related interest and penalties) incurred by us, as well as any liabilities that the IRS or the tax authorities successfully may assert against us for corporate income taxes for taxable years prior to the time we qualified as a REIT. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries, including Rockledge, Fernwood and HMT Lessee, are taxable as corporations and will pay federal, state and local income tax on their net income at the applicable corporate rates, and foreign taxes to the extent they own assets or conduct operations in foreign jurisdictions. If the IRS were to challenge successfully the operating partnerships status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences. We believe that the operating partnership qualifies to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, it is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including us, is required to pay tax on its allocable share of the operating partnerships income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS will not challenge its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the operating partnership as a corporation for tax purposes, we would fail to meet the income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a REIT. If the operating partnership fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or we fail to qualify as a REIT, either failure would cause an event of default under our credit facility that, in turn, could constitute an event of default under our outstanding debt securities. Also, the failure of the operating partnership to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to federal and state corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including us. Finally, the classification of the operating partnership as a corporation would cause us to recognize gain at least equal to our negative capital account, if any. As a REIT, we are subject to limitations on our ownership of debt and equity securities. Subject to the exceptions discussed in this paragraph, a REIT is prohibited from owning securities in any one issuer to the extent that the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the REITs total assets or the securities owned by the REIT represent more than 10% of the issuers outstanding voting securities or more than 10% of the value of the issuers outstanding securities. A REIT is permitted to own securities of a subsidiary in an amount that exceeds the 5% value test and the 10% vote or value test if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable REIT subsidiary, which is taxable as a corporation. However, a REIT may not own securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 20% of the value of the REITs total assets. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to special rules that may result in increased taxes. Several Internal Revenue Code provisions ensure that a taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. For example, a taxable REIT subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to an affiliated REIT. In addition, the REIT has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives if the economic arrangements between the REIT and the taxable REIT subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. We may be required to pay a penalty tax upon the sale of a hotel. The Federal income tax provisions applicable to REITs provide that any gain realized by a REIT on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction that is subject to a 100% penalty tax. Under existing law, whether property, including hotels, is held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is a question of fact that depends upon all of the facts and circumstances with respect to the particular transaction. The operating partnership intends that it and its subsidiaries will hold the hotels for investment with a view to long term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning hotels and to make occasional sales of hotels as are consistent with the operating partnerships investment objectives. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS might not contend that one or more of these sales is subject to the 100% penalty tax. 59 
 
