FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20020930212250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.    OTHER EVENTS.
 
 
In February 2002, Newmont Mining Corporation ("Newmont") acquired Normandy Mining Limited ("Normandy") and Franco-Nevada Mining Corporation Limited ("Franco-Nevada"). The following tables present pro forma proven and probable reserve information as of December 31, 2001 assuming that Newmont had acquired both Normandy and Franco-Nevada, and that Franco-Nevada had acquired its 45.3% interest in Echo Bay Mines Limited, in each case as of December 31, 2001. With respect to the pro forma reserve information for property owned by Normandy, the reserves reported by Normandy as of June 30, 2001 have been adjusted to reflect (a) depletion during the period between July 1, 2001 and December 31, 2001; (b) additional technical data collected by Normandy during that period; and (c) a gold price of US$300 per ounce, except for the equity amounts reported for Kalgoorlie and Boddington, where Normandy's gold price assumptions of A$475 per ounce and A$425 per ounce, respectively, were retained. Except as provided in footnote 8 to the tables, no changes were made to Newmont's proven and probable reserve information reported in Newmont's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001 which was based on information available at the time Newmont's reserves were calculated.
 
With the acquisitions of Normandy and Franco-Nevada, Newmont had worldwide pro forma gold reserves of 87.3 million equity ounces of gold as of December 31, 2001. Normandy had reported reserves of 26.4 million equity ounces as of June 30, 2001 (the date of its last reserve report).
 
References to "equity ounces" or "equity pounds" mean that portion of gold, copper or zinc in proven and probable reserves that is attributable or proportionate to Newmont's ownership or economic interest.
 
The term "reserve" means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
 
The term "economically," as used in the definition of reserve, implies that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated, in a full or bankable feasibility study, to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions.
 
The term "legally," as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, Newmont must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a timeframe consistent with Newmont's current mine plans.
 
The term "proven reserves" means reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (b) grade and/or quality are computed from the result of detailed sampling; and (c) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is
sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
 
The term "probable reserves" means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.
 
Proven and probable reserves are based on extensive drilling, sampling, mine modeling and metallurgical testing from which economic feasibility has been determined. The price sensitivity of reserves depends upon several factors including grade, waste-to-ore ratios and ore type. Included in Newmont's reserves are 680,794 ounces of gold committed under a prepaid forward sales contract. Recovery rates vary depending on the metallurgical properties of each deposit and the production process used. The reserve tables list the average recovery rate for each deposit which takes into account the several different processing methods scheduled to be used. The cutoff grade, or lowest grade of mineralized material considered economic to process, varies with material type, metallurgical recoveries, and operating costs.
 
The proven and probable reserves figures presented herein are estimates, and no assurance can be given that the indicated levels of recovery of gold, copper or zinc will be realized. Ounces of gold or pounds of copper and zinc in the proven and probable reserves are prior to any losses during metallurgical treatment. Reserve estimates may require revision based on actual production experience. Market price fluctuations of gold, copper and zinc as well as increased production costs or reduced recovery rates could render proven and probable reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic to exploit and might result in a reduction of reserves.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This document contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created thereby. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation, (i) estimates of reserves and future reserve growth potential, and (ii) estimates of future operations. Where the company expresses or implies an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks include, but are not limited to, gold price volatility, increased production costs and variances in ore grade or recovery rates from those assumed in mining plans, as well as political and operational risks and governmental regulation. For a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors, see Page 8 of the company's 2001 Annual Report on Form 10-K which is on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the company's other SEC filings.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


