FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20041001151658.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On September 27, 2004, Newmont Australia Limited ("NAL"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation ("Newmont"), signed a term sheet, in anticipation of entering into definitive transaction documentation, relating to a loan and loan guarantee involving Australian Magnesium Corporation Limited ("AMC") and certain of its subsidiaries. The term sheet was signed by the following additional parties: (a) AMC and its subsidiaries, Australian Magnesium Operations Pty Ltd ("AMO"), QMC Investments Pty Ltd, QMC (Kunwarara) Pty Ltd, QMC Refmag Pty Ltd, and Queensland Magnesia Pty Ltd (collectively, the "AMC Group"); and (b) Resource Capital Fund III L.P. ("RCF"). All references below to A$ are to Australian currency.
 
Under the provisions of the term sheet, it is contemplated that:
 
 
 
 
 
The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2004, after satisfaction of a number of conditions, including (a) approval by AMC shareholders; (b) certain regulatory approvals; (c) entry into the senior debt facility; and (d) completion of definitive transaction documentation. In addition, pending the closing, NAL will loan A$1.25 million to QMAG for short term working capital purposes, secured by AMC's and AMO's interests in the Kunwarara magnesite deposit. This loan will be repaid when the transaction with RCF closes.
 
Newmont expects to record a non-cash, pre-tax gain of approximately $10 million to $15 million upon closing of the transaction with RCF, as a result of the reversal of a $30 million loss contingency accrual previously recorded by Newmont related to its guarantee of the existing A$58 million loan facility, net of a valuation allowance that will be established in respect of Newmont's new A$30 million loan and other miscellaneous effects of the transaction. This gain may be material, depending on the amount of income that Newmont otherwise will have in the quarter in which the transaction closes. This Form 8-K is being filed on a cautionary basis.
 
In the fourth quarter of 2003, a Newmont subsidiary sold to Deutsche Bank and Magtrust Pty Ltd the equity interest that it had in AMC, but remained obligated under the outstanding loan and guarantee arrangements referred to above.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: October 1, 2004
 


