FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20041203134324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On November 29, 2004, Newmont Finance Limited ("NFL") and certain other subsidiaries of Newmont Mining Corporation ("Newmont"), signed a Subordinated Debt Facility and other definitive agreements and undertakings relating to a definitive Sale Agreement signed contemporaneously by the following parties: (a) Australian Magnesium Corporation ("AMC") and its subsidiaries, Australian Magnesium Operations Pty Ltd ("AMO"), QMC Investments Pty Ltd, QMC (Kunwarara) Pty Ltd, Q.M.C. Finance Pty Ltd, QMC Refmag Pty Ltd, and Queensland Magnesia Pty Ltd (collectively, the "AMC Group"); and (b) Resource Capital Fund III L.P. ("RCF"), RCF Management L.L.C. ("RCFM"), ACN 111 279 906 Ltd ("ACN"), and QMCH Pty Ltd ("QMCH"). All references below to A$ are to Australian currency.
 
The transaction closed on December 1, 2004, after satisfaction of a number of conditions, including (a) approval by AMC shareholders; (b) certain regulatory approvals; and (c) entry into a senior debt facility. In connection with closing of the Sale Agreement and relation transactions:
 
 
 
 
 
Newmont expects to record a non-cash, pre-tax gain of approximately $10 million to $12 million, as a result of the reversal of a $30 million loss contingency accrual previously recorded by Newmont related to its guarantee of the existing A$58.5 million loan facility, net of a valuation allowance that will be established in respect of Newmont's new A$30 million loan and other miscellaneous effects of the transaction. This gain may be material, depending on the amount of income that Newmont otherwise will have in the fourth quarter 2004. This Form 8-K is being filed on a cautionary basis.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: December 3, 2004
 


