FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20050629115346.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Impairments	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On June 23, 2005, Newmont Golden Grove Operations Pty Ltd and Newmont Wownaminya Pty Ltd (together, "Seller"), Newmont Australia Limited ("NAL"), Oxiana Golden Grove Pty Ltd ("Buyer") and Oxiana Limited entered into a Sale Agreement (the "Sale Agreement"). Under the Sale Agreement, Seller has agreed to sell, and Buyer has agreed to buy, Seller's Golden Grove zinc-copper operation in Western Australia. The obligations of Seller under the Sale Agreement are guaranteed by NAL, and the obligations of Buyer are guaranteed by Oxiana Limited. Total consideration for the sale is expected to be approximately $205 million, including approximately $147 million in cash and 81.5 million Oxiana Limited shares, which are currently valued at approximately $58 million. The sale is subject to Buyer obtaining required financing and other customary closing conditions and is expected to close in late July, 2005.
 
The foregoing description of the Sale Agreement contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Sale Agreement, which is filed hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 2.06. Material Impairments.
 
The disclosure set forth under Item 1.01 above is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.06. As a result of the entry into the Sale Agreement described in Item 1.01 above, Newmont Mining Corporation (the "Company") determined on June 23, 2005 that a non-cash charge to earnings will be required in the second quarter of 2005, in the range of $25 million to $35 million to reduce the carrying value of the Golden Grove zinc-copper net assets to their estimated net selling price.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On June 23, 2005, the Company issued a news release announcing the Golden Grove transaction, described in Item 1.01 above, and reaffirming 2005 guidance on operating performance and operating results. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
The information, including the exhibit attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, contained in this Item 7.01 of this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise stated in such filing.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created by such sections. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation, (i) statements regarding the expected sale of Seller's Golden Grove zinc-copper operations and the timing thereof, and (ii) estimates of the non-cash charge to earnings in connection with the transactions described above. Where the Company expresses or implies an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks include, but are not limited to, gold and other metals price volatility, currency fluctuations, unexpected delays in the completion of the sale, inability to satisfy any closing conditions to such sale, and actions or inactions of government regulators and other third parties. For a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors, see the Company's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the Company's other SEC filings. The Company does not undertake any obligation to release publicly revisions to any "forward-looking statement," to reflect future events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: June 29, 2005
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
Sale Agreement
 
Dated
 
Parties
 
 
 
(together the ).
Seller
 
 
 
 
Background
 
 
 
 
 
Operative Provisions
 
 
 
In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires:
 
has the meaning specified in clause 16.2(a).
Account
 
means this Agreement executed by the Parties.
Agreement
 
has the meaning specified in clause 6.6.
Application
 
means:
Assigned Agreements
 
 
 
 
means the Existing Claims, the Environmental Liabilities, the Employee Liabilities, the Authorisations, the Permitted Encumbrances and the Continuing Business Liabilities.
Assumed Liabilities
 
means Australian Stock Exchange Limited.
ASX
 
means a day that the ASX is open for business.
ASX Business Day
 
means all permits, licences, consents, authorities, registrations and approvals from any person, authority or body necessary for ownership of the Project Interest and for the proper carrying on of, and used exclusively for, the Business in favour of the Seller or a Related Corporation, and includes the Groundwater Licences and the permits, licences, consents and authorities listed in Annexure F.
Authorisations
 
means the current budget for the Business set by the Seller, a copy of which was emailed by Paul Kiley on behalf of the Seller to Peter Lester on behalf of the Buyer at 7:17pm on 23 June 2005.
Budget
 
means the business carried on by the Seller using the Project Interest, known as the Golden Grove Operations.
Business
 
means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or official public holiday on which banks are ordinarily open in the Western Australian and Victoria.
Business Day
 
means all current operational records belonging to the Seller or a Related Corporation (but within the control of the Seller) exclusively relating to the Project Interest and the Business including but without limiting the generality thereof:
Business Records
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
means the parties or persons set out in Annexure O.
Buyer's Project Team
 
means Peter Colbert, Jeff Sells and David Forsyth or such other officers or agents of the Buyer as the Buyer may in writing notify the Seller.
Buyer Representatives
 
means the amount calculated in accordance with clause 4.1.
Cash Component
 
means all cash on hand of the Business and the credit balance of the Account as at the Transfer Time (but does not include any amounts comprising the Excluded Amounts).
Cash on Hand
 
means loss, damage, injury, claim, cost, expense and liability.
Claim
 
means all zinc, precious metal copper and lead concentrates owned by the Seller and produced from the operations of the Business held on the Tenements and the Licensed Premises.
Concentrates
 
means the Concentrates which are held as at the Transfer Time on the Tenements or at the Licensed Premises or which are in transit to the Licensed Premises and which, for the avoidance of doubt, includes the benefit of any work in progress.
Concentrates Inventories
 
means the conditions precedent to this Agreement referred to in clause 3.1.
Conditions Precedent
 
means:
Confidential Information
 
 
 
 
 
that is not public knowledge (otherwise than as a result of a breach of a confidentiality obligation of a party).
 
means a liability (however arising) incurred by the Seller in connection with the Business in the ordinary course of business (including, without limitation, all obligations under the Assigned Agreements) prior to the Effective Time where the Business will derive or retain a benefit of any kind from the act or omission giving rise to the liability after the Effective Time.
Continuing Business Liabilities
 
means the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).
Corporations Act
 
means those Assigned Agreements agreed mutually by the Seller and the Buyer prior to the date of this Agreement as being critical to operations of the Business.
Critical Assigned Agreements
 
means the deed of assignment and assumption in the form set out in Annexure C or, in any particular case, another form agreed by the Seller and the Buyer (both acting reasonably).
Deed
 
 
means the body, department or instrumentality responsible for administration of the Mining Act and includes any registrar or warden.
Department
 
means the amount of US$2,000,000 payable by the Buyer to the Seller in accordance with clause 4.2(a).
Deposit
 
means the information, materials and documents (whether written, verbal or in electronic copy form) in relation to the Business disclosed to the Buyer or the Buyer's Project Team, including the Information Memorandum and all materials and documents (including data room materials and documents) set out in Annexure E.
Disclosure Materials
 
means dry metric tonne (of 1,000 kilograms or 2,204.62lbs) which contains no moisture.
dmt
 
means 11.59pm (Adelaide time) on 30 June 2005.
Effective Time
 
means the Golden Grove Electricity Supply Agreement dated 31 July 2002 between Western Power Corporation and Newmont, in respect of the supply of electricity to the Business.
Electricity Supply Agreement
 
means the aggregate of the amount of accrued entitlements, for the avoidance of doubt gross of tax, for each Transferring Employee under any applicable award, statute, regulation or employment terms, which includes salary, bonuses, allowances, annual leave, long service leave, sick leave and liability in relation to rostered days off as at the Effective Time.
Employee Liabilities
 
means the persons, not being the Excluded Persons, employed by the Seller or any Related Corporation exclusively in the conduct of the Business at Settlement listed in Annexure G.
Employees
 
means any mortgage, charge, lien, writ, caveat, royalty (other than royalties payable to any State or Commonwealth Government), net profit interest or other encumbrance or third party interest of any nature whatsoever, whether registered or unregistered.
Encumbrance
 
means the Environment Protection Act 1986 (WA) and all other laws, statutes, regulations, or official directive (whether federal, commonwealth, state or local) concerning environment matters (whether in effect prior to, at or after Settlement) which regulates or affects the Tenements (including the land over which the Tenements apply) or the conduct of the Business or the use or operation of the Project Interest, and includes laws, statutes, regulations and official directives concerning land use, development, pollution, waste disposal, emissions to the water, air or ground, toxic and hazardous substances, conservation of natural or cultural resources and resource allocation including any law, statute, regulation or official directive relating to exploration for or development of any natural resource.
Environmental Law
 
means:
Environmental Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
regardless of whether the liability or obligation has arisen prior to or after the Effective Time
.
 
means all proceeds from the sale of Concentrates (irrespective of time of receipt) from the following shipments of Concentrates:
Excluded Amounts
 
 
 
 
in each case, taking into account the Positive Variation and Negative Variation.
 
means the persons listed in Annexure H.
Excluded Persons
 
means the claims described in Item 5 of the Schedule.
Existing Claims
 
means all activities aimed at discovery, locating and delineation of minerals and includes:
Exploration
 
 
 
 
 
but excludes Mining.
 
means the base and precious metal Mining and milling operations owned by the Seller, known by that name and conducted on some of the Tenements.
Golden Grove Operations
 
means the 3 groundwater licences belonging to the Seller's Guarantor and more particularly set out below:
Groundwater Licences
 
 
 
 
means the Newmont Golden Grove Operations Information Memorandum dated 20 May 2005.
Information Memorandum
 
means the period between the Effective Time and Settlement.
Interim Period
 
means the Store Inventories and the Concentrates Inventories.
Inventories
 
means an amount equal to all amounts accrued (but unpaid or pro rata or both) at the Effective Time in respect of the Employee Liabilities.
Leave Adjustment
 
means the license agreement dated 12 June 1991 between Newmont and Geraldton Port Authority in relation to the licensing of the Licensed Premises, as amended by the deed dated 12 June 1991 between the same parties.
Licence
 
means the land and storage facilities at Reserve 20606 at the Geraldton Ports.
Licensed Premises
 
includes any mode or method of working whereby earth or any rock structure, stone, fluid or mineral bearing substance is disturbed, removed, washed, shifted, crushed, leeched, roasted, distilled evaporated, smelted, refined or dealt with for the purpose of obtaining any mineral therefrom whether it has been previously disturbed or not and:
Mining
 
 
 
 
 
means the legislation referred to at Item 4 of the Schedule and any regulations made thereunder.
Mining Act
 
means all information and files, in physical or electronic form, available with respect to the Tenements including, but not limited to:
Mining Information
 
 
 
 
has the same meaning as in the Mining Act.
Mining Tenement
 
means the Minister of the Crown in the State responsible for the administration of the Mining Act from time to time.
Minister
 
means any registered vehicles owned and exclusively used by the Seller or a Related Corporation in connection with the Business.
Motor Vehicles
 
means the amount of reduction in the purchase price payable by a purchaser of the Concentrates as a result of the Concentrates being of a lower quality than contracted.
Negative Variation
 
means the Newmont Australia Superannuation Plan.
Newmont's Fund
 
means the Seller's Guarantor and its subsidiaries.
Newmont Group of Companies
 
means Newmont Mining Services Pty Ltd ABN 22 008 087 778 of 100 Hutt Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
NMS
 
mean the Employees who do not accept the Buyer's offer of employment referred to in clause 9.1.
Non-Transferring Employees
 
means minor or operational agreements to which the Seller is a party, affecting or relating to the Tenements or the Business which:
Normal Operational Agreements
 
 
 
 
means each of the Seller, the Seller's Guarantor, the Buyer and the Buyer's Guarantor and means one of them.
Parties
Party
 
means any security, bond, cash or deposit lodged with the Department as security for the performance of obligations under the Mining Act or other relevant law or statute in respect of the Tenements by or on behalf of the Seller, the amounts of which are set out next to the respective Tenements in Item 1 of the Schedule, and including any additional bonds or guarantees that the Seller has posted or may post in respect of the Tenements prior to Settlement.
Performance Bonds
 
means all statutory obligations related to the Tenements, including (without limitation) the obligation to pay any royalty to the State or Commonwealth Government.
Permitted Encumbrances
 
means all of the plant and equipment owned by the Seller or a Related Corporation and exclusively used by the Seller to carry on the Business and situated on the Tenements or at the Licensed Premises and includes the plant and equipment set out in Annexure D but excludes the Motor Vehicles.
Plant and Equipment
 
means any additional amount payable by a purchaser of the Concentrates as a result of the Concentrates being of a higher quality than contracted.
Positive Variation
 
means the benefit of amounts paid by the Seller prior to the Transfer Time in relation to the Business, to the extent that the benefit of such payment will be received by the Business or the Buyer in whole or in part after the Transfer Time.
Prepayments
 
means, on any day, the average bid rate for three month bank bills as shown on the page of Bloomberg Professional Service designated "BTMM" (or, if that rate ceases to be shown, the bid rate for three month bank bills quoted to the Seller by its principal banker) at the close of business, Sydney time on that day (or if it is not a Business Day, the average bid rate so quoted on the preceding Business Day plus two percentage points).
Prescribed Rate
 
means all costs expenses and liabilities incurred or arising in connection with:
Project Costs
 
 
 
 
means, subject to any matters expressly excluded from this Agreement:
Project Interest
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
together with all other assets owned by the Seller or a Related Corporation and used exclusively by the Seller in connection with the Business.
 
means the consideration payable for the Project Interest, being the Cash Component, the Deposit, the Share Component and the Working Capital Adjustment.
Purchase Price
 
means the right to receive the proceeds from the sale of all Concentrates by the Seller (taking into account the Positive Variation and Negative Variation) which are outstanding at the Transfer Time and for the avoidance of doubt, does not include the proceeds which form a part of the Excluded Amounts
Receipts
.
 
means the Business Records and the Mining Information.
Records
 
means a related body corporate within the meaning of the Corporations Act.
Related Corporation
 
means "Relevant Period" as that term is defined in the Workplace Relations Regulations 1996.
Relevant Period
 
means "Relevant Amount of Compensation" as that term is defined in the Workplace Relations Regulations 1996.
Relevant Amount of Compensation
 
means:
Replacement Performance Bonds
 
 
 
means each of the covenants, warranties and representations made by the Seller in clause 11.1 of this Agreement.
Seller Warranties
 
means the agency and services agreement dated on or about the date of this Agreement between Newmont, NMS, the Buyer and the Buyer's Guarantor, substantially in the form set out in Annexure N, in relation to the provision of certain services by Newmont and NMS to the Buyer after Settlement.
Services Agreement
 
means settlement of the sale and purchase of the Project Interest under clause 6.
Settlement
 
means the later of 26 July 2005 and the date 5 Business Days after the satisfaction or waiver of each of the Conditions Precedent, or such such other date as may be agreed in writing between the Parties.
Settlement Date
 
means an ordinary share in the capital of the Buyer's Guarantor.
Share
 
is 81,500,000 Shares.
Share Component
 
means the Seller's Guarantor or such other Related Corporation of the Seller's Guarantor as may be nominated by the Seller.
Share Subscriber
 
means the State of Western Australia
State
.
 
means the stores of spare parts and consumables owned by the Seller or a Related Corporation for use exclusively in the Business and held on the Tenements or at the Licensed Premises as at the Transfer Time.
Store Inventories
 
means any legal liability or voluntary commitment to contribute to any superannuation fund, pension scheme or other arrangement which will provide directors or employees of the Seller or their dependants with pensions, annuities, lump sum or other payments on retirement or earlier death or otherwise.
Superannuation Commitment
 
means the Mining Tenements and Mining Tenement applications described in Item 1 of the Schedule, and include any stockpiles upon the Tenements, and unless the context otherwise requires, a reference to any Tenement (the first tenement) includes a reference to any Mining Tenement applied for or granted in renewal or extension of the first tenement or any Mining Tenement or portion of a Mining Tenement applied for or granted in substitution for the whole or part of the first tenement.
Tenements
 
means the Term Sheet entitled "Term Sheet for Oxiana Limited: Acquisition Bridge Loan" dated 21 June 2005 and attached to the letter dated 22 June 2005 and signed by Chris Tonkin on behalf of Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Limited a copy of which was produced to the Seller prior to the date of this Agreement.
Term Sheet
 
means all amounts owed to creditors of the Business as at the Effective Time with respect to goods and services received by the Business prior to the Effective Time.
Trade Creditor Liabilities
 
means 11.59pm (Adelaide time) on the day immediately prior to the Settlement Date.
Transfer Time
 
mean the Employees who accept the Buyer's offer of employment referred to in clause 9.1.
Transferring Employees
 
means the wages and other employment benefit and payroll and personnel records of the Transferring Employees.
Transferring Employees' Records
 
means instruments of transfer of the Seller's registered interest in the Tenements in registrable form to enable the Buyer to become the registered holder of that interest.
Transfers
 
means those arrangements for the transition of the Business to the Buyer following Settlement mutually agreed between the Seller and Buyer, a preliminary draft of which is set out in Annexure M (and which is subject to further amendments by the Parties).
Transitional Arrangements
 
means the amount calculated in accordance with clause 4.1(d).
Working Capital Adjustment
 
 
In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In consideration of the Purchase Price, the Seller hereby agrees to sell and the Buyer agrees to purchase, on the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement all of the Seller's rights and interests in the Project Interest.
 
 
The Project Interest is sold free from all Encumbrances other than the Permitted Encumbrances, the Assumed Liabilities, the Existing Claims and the Environmental Liabilities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except for clauses 3, 27 and 29, this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by it are subject to and conditional upon:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any one or more of the Conditions Precedent is or are not:
 
 
 
on or by 11.59 pm (Adelaide time) on 12 August 2005 or such later date as is fixed pursuant to clause 3.5, then this Agreement may be terminated by notice by one Party to the other Party and upon such termination of this Agreement:
 
 
 
 
 
The Parties may mutually agree to extend the date for satisfaction of the Condition Precedent.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Purchase Price will be paid in the following manner:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided that, in relation to any month, the amount of any shortfall in the instalment amount the amount of the Trade Creditor Liabilities actually paid by the Seller during that month, if any, shall be recoverable from any surplus free cash flow from the succeeding month or months.
vis--vis
 
The Parties will on demand provide each other with all necessary information to allow them to determine the extent of their rights and obligations under clause 4.2(d). For the avoidance of doubt, the Buyer acknowledges that the Working Capital Adjustment is paid from the cash generated from the Business, and not from the funds of the Buyer. Accordingly, this amount will not be refundable to the Buyer under any circumstances in the event this Agreement is terminated.
 
 
The Parties agree to the apportionment of the Purchase Price between the assets comprising the Project Interest as set out in Item 3 of the Schedule.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Settlement shall take place at 10 am Adelaide time on the Settlement Date.
 
 
Settlement shall take place at 100 Hutt Street, Adelaide, SA 5000 or such other place as may be agreed in writing between the Parties.
 
 
Subject to clause 6.8, at Settlement:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following Settlement, the Buyer shall promptly cause the Transfers delivered by the Seller at Settlement to be stamped and registered.
 
 
With respect to each Tenement which is still an application at the date of Settlement (:
Application)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Until such time as the Deed or the Licence Assignment has been fully executed (or where clause 6.7(a)(v)(B) applies, until such time as the Deed has been fully executed by all Parties, except the Non-Executing Party, and the notice of assignment having been delivered to the Non-Executing Party), the Seller shall hold the relevant interest under the Assigned Agreement as trustee for Buyer and shall comply with the directions of the Buyer in relation thereto, subject to the Buyer assuming all obligations of the Seller under the Assigned Agreement and indemnifying the Seller for any costs or liabilities which arise as a result of the Seller acting as the trustee for the Buyer as well as acting on the Buyer's directions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided that the Seller has used reasonable endeavours to procure such assignment.
 
 
The obligations of the Seller and the Buyer under clause 6.3 and clause 6.6(a) are interdependent and must be completed simultaneously and no actions, delivery or payment will be taken to have been made and performed until all actions, deliveries and payments and other obligations to be performed at Settlement have been made and performed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
On and after Settlement, the Seller shall from time to time at the request of the Buyer sign any further documents as may be reasonably necessary to perfect the transfer to the Buyer of the Project Interest.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Without affecting the Buyer's obligation under clause 6.3(b)(ii), the Seller and Buyer must take all necessary steps to procure the release or refund of the Performance Bonds promptly after Settlement including, without limitation, in the case of the Buyer, by procuring the issue of the Replacement Performance Bonds as soon as reasonably possible.
 
 
Until the Performance Bonds are released or refunded in accordance with clause 7.1, the Buyer will, with effect from the Effective Time but subject to Settlement, indemnify the Seller in relation to all claims or calls made under or pursuant to the Performance Bonds as well as all fees to maintain the Performance Bonds beyond a date 3 months after Settlement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On and from Settlement, the parties will co-operate in good faith and will use their best endeavours to give effect to the Transitional Arrangements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Buyer acknowledges that the persons listed in Annexure H will not on or before the Settlement Date be offered any continuing employment by the Buyer without the consent of the Seller and will remain as employees of Newmont, the Seller's Guarantor or any of their Related Corporation.
 
 
Newmont must on the Effective Time:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in the event that the Buyer terminates the Transferring Employees' employment during the period starting from the Settlement Date that is equivalent to the Relevant Period; and
 
 
 
Each party acknowledges that the employees offered employment by the Buyer under clause 9.1 do not include the Excluded Persons.
 
 
The employment of each Non-Transferring Employee will continue until terminated by Newmont, and the Buyer has no obligations (employment or otherwise) whatsoever to any Non-Transferring Employee at any time.
 
 
 
 
For each Transferring Employee who is enrolled in the Newmont's Fund, and subject always to the Transferring Employee being entitled to exercise his or her choice of superannuation fund pursuant to State and Commonwealth legislation and subject also to the Transitional Arrangements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any transfers of membership and of entitlement under this clause shall take place on the Settlement Date or so soon thereafter as is reasonably practicable (but in any event no later than the relevant time period as set out in clause 10.1(a)) and the amounts to be transferred in accordance with this clause shall be calculated as at the date of such transfer.
 
 
 
The Seller represents and warrants to the Buyer as at the date of this Agreement (which representations and warranties shall survive Settlement) but subject to any matter, fact, thing or circumstance disclosed in the Disclosure Materials that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from the expenditure requirements applicable to the Tenements have been lodged where appropriate in accordance with prudent mining tenement management practices and to the best of the Seller's information, knowledge or belief, there is no information contained in any of those applications is untrue or otherwise materially misleading or deceptive;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All representations and warranties contained in this clause 11.1 shall be true and correct in every material respect as at Settlement and with the same effect as though such representations and warranties had been made at and as of that time.
 
 
The Seller's Guarantor warrants and represents to the Buyer as at the date of this Agreement (which warranties and representations shall survive Settlement), that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All representations and warranties contained in this clause 11.2 shall be true and correct in every material respect as at Settlement and with the same effect as though such representations and warranties had been made at and as of that time.
 
 
Any claim by the Buyer for any breach of any of the Seller Warranties and the Seller Guarantor's warranties:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Buyer and the Buyer's Guarantor warrant, and represent to Seller as at the date of this Agreement (which warranties and representations shall survive Settlement) that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All representations and warranties contained in this clause 12.1 shall be true and correct in every material respect as at Settlement and with the same effect as though such representations and warranties had been made at and as of that time.
 
 
The Buyer acknowledges and agrees that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
may exist or be imposed and the Buyer will assume full responsibility in respect of all prior, existing and future environmental obligations and Environmental Liabilities affecting the Project Interest purchased by it;
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any claim by the Seller for any breach of any of the warranties of the Buyer or the Buyer's Guarantor set out in this clause:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Seller hereby indemnifies and shall keep indemnified the Buyer from and against and in respect of any Claims whatsoever which may be taken or made against the Buyer or which the Buyer may incur or suffer as a direct or indirect consequence of any breach by the Seller of any of the warranties set out in clause 11.
 
 
The Buyer hereby indemnifies and shall keep indemnified the Seller from and against and in respect of any Claims whatsoever which may be taken or made against the Seller or which the Seller may incur or suffer:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the period between the date of this Agreement and the Effective Time, the Seller shall remain in possession of the Project Interest and shall carry on the Business as a going concern in the ordinary course of business.
 
 
During the period between the date of this Agreement and the Effective Time, the Seller shall, to the extent that it is reasonably able to do so having regard to the rights of third parties under the Assigned Agreements, use all reasonable endeavours to ensure that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the period between the date of this Agreement and the Effective Time and to the extent that it is reasonably able to do so having regard to the rights of third parties under the Assigned Agreements, the Seller will not incur any Project Costs:
 
 
 
 
During the period between the date of this Agreement and the Effective Time, the Seller shall, to the extent that the Assigned Agreements do not transfer this obligation to a third party:
 
 
 
 
 
During the period between the date of this Agreement and the Effective Time:
 
 
 
 
During the period between the date of this Agreement and the Effective Time, the Seller covenants that it will not:
 
 
 
 
During the period between the date of this Agreement and the Effective Time:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on Settlement. Any variations from the estimated values shall not be a ground for any adjustment in the Purchase Price nor will the Buyer be entitled to make any claim against the Seller.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At least 2 Business Days prior to Settlement, the Seller will provide to the Buyer a reconciliation of amounts paid in to and out of the Account by the Seller during the Interim Period, including all amounts contributed under clause 16.2(b)(ii). At Settlement, the Buyer will reimburse the Seller for any amounts paid by the Seller under 16.2(b)(ii) to the extent that the Seller has not been previously reimbursed from the Account.
 
 
In consideration of the Seller agreeing, subject to Settlement, to manage the Business as the agent for the Buyer during the Interim Period in accordance with the terms of this clause 16, the Buyer agrees and undertakes to pay to the Seller a fee of $280,000 per calendar month, the first payment of which is payable (on a pro-rated basis) on the payable on the day next following the Effective Time, and the subsequent payments on the first day of each calendar month thereafter during the Interim Period, with the last payment (prorated accordingly) being paid on the first day of the first calendar month after the Settlement Date. The Seller is authorised to deduct such fees from the Account.
 
 
 
The Buyer's Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees to each Seller:
 
 
 
 
The Buyer's Guarantor, as a principal obligor and as a separate and independent obligation and liability from its obligations under clause 17.1, irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to indemnify the Seller in full on demand against all losses, damages, expenses, proceedings and claims that may be suffered by or brought against the Seller arising from or in connection with any of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Seller's Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees to the Buyer to pay the Buyer immediately on demand, all moneys and liabilities that are now or at any time hereafter due and payable by the Seller to the Buyer in relation to any amount that the Seller is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be liable to the Buyer as a result of a breach of clause 2 or any of the Seller Warranties.
 
 
The Seller's Guarantor, as a principal obligor and as a separate and independent obligation and liability from its obligations under clause 18.1, irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to indemnify the Buyer in full on demand against all losses, damages, expenses, proceedings and claims that may be suffered by or brought against the Buyer arising from or in connection with a claim for breach of the Seller Warranty for which the Seller is found to be liable by a court of competent jurisdiction.
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the Seller's Guarantor is not liable under this clause 18 where the Buyer is restricted from making a claim against the Seller pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the other Party at any time thereafter, may give notice to complete to the Defaulting Party
(Complying Party),
(Notice to Complete).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Time shall be of the essence for the performance by each Party of its obligations under this Agreement.
 
 
The provisions of clause 19, clause 20, clause 21 and clause 22 are without prejudice to any rights and remedies that may be available to either the Buyer or the Seller arising from any breach of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this clause 26:
 
has the same meaning attributed to going concern in Section 38-325 of the GST Act;
Going Concern
 
means any tax, levy, charge or impost implemented under the GST Act or an Act of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia substantially in the form of, or which has a similar effect to the GST Legislation;
GST
 
means the (1999 (Cth);
GST Act
A New Tax System
Goods and Services Tax) Act
 
means the GST Act and associated legislation and regulations and words defined in the GST Legislation have the same meaning in this Agreement;
GST Legislation
 
at any particular time, means, the rate (expressed as a percentage) at which GST is payable by the Supplier of a Taxable Supply at that time;
GST Rate
 
means the amount of input tax credit available to a Party under Division 11 and/or Division 15 of the GST Act;
Input Tax Credit
 
has the same meaning attributed to price in Section 9-75 of the GST Act;
Price
 
means a Party when it is the recipient of a Supply; means a Party when it makes a Supply;
Recipient
Supplier
 
means any supply pursuant to this Agreement including but not limited to a Taxable Supply;
Supply
 
has the same meaning as tax invoice in Section 29-70 of the GST Act;
Tax Invoice
 
has the same meaning as in Section 9-5 of the GST Act;
Taxable Supply
 
is the GST exclusive value of a Supply and has the same meaning attributed to value in Section 9-75 of the GST Act.
Value
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any Supply is a Taxable Supply, then:
 
 
 
 
If a Party purchases or acquires a Taxable Supply for which it is entitled to be reimbursed by the other Party under the terms of this Agreement, the first mentioned Party agrees that the reimbursable amount shall be reduced by the full amount of the Input Tax Credit to which the first mentioned Party is entitled.
 
 
 
The Buyer:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clause 27.1 applies:
 
 
 
 
whichever first occurs; and
 
 
 
As soon as practicable after this document has been signed, the parties must make an announcement to the media in, or substantially in, the form of as set out in Annexure [K].
 
 
A party must not make or authorise a press release or public announcement relating to the negotiations of the parties or the subject matter or provisions of this document () unless:
Announcement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Party must not commence arbitration or court proceedings (except for interlocutory relief) in respect of a dispute arising out of this document, its breach or termination or a claim as to its validity () until it has complied with this clause.
dispute
 
 
A Party claiming that a dispute has arisen must notify each other Party to this Agreement in writing giving details of the dispute.
 
 
Within the period of 14 days following service of a notice under clause 28.2, the chief executive officers () of the Seller's Guarantor and the Buyer's Guarantor (or their respective delegates) must meet and use their best efforts to resolve the dispute. A delegate of each CEO must be duly authorised to act in relation to the matters to be discussed and must have sufficient information and authority to make decisions on those matters on behalf of the CEO.
CEO
 
 
If the Parties to the dispute are unable to resolve the dispute by discussion under clause 28.3 within fourteen days of the executives meeting, the Parties to this Agreement and to the dispute agree that before having recourse to arbitration or litigation they will attempt to settle the dispute by mediation:
 
 
 
for a further period not exceeding fourteen days.
 
 
If the Parties are not able to settle the dispute amicably at the expiry of the mediation process described in clause 28.4, either Party may take the necessary court proceedings as it sees fit to have the dispute decided by the courts.
 
 
This clause survives termination of this Agreement.
 
 
 
All notices given pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be given by personal delivery, post or facsimile to the Party to whom the notice is addressed at its address shown in this Agreement or such other address as it may have notified to the other Party from time to time.
 
 
A notice will be deemed to have been received by the Party to whom it is addressed:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
if the Security over the Subject Property is granted in favour of, or for the benefit of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Agreement:
 
 
 
 
If any provision of this Agreement shall in any respect be in violation of any law, rule, direction, regulation or order of Government or be deemed void or voidable due to uncertainty or other reasons then, to the extent necessary to avoid any violation of such law, rule, direction, regulation or order, or uncertainty, such provision shall be deemed to have been excised herefrom and this Agreement as thereby modified shall continue in full force and effect.
 
 
This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts in person or by facsimile, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No indulgence which a Party may grant to the other shall constitute a waiver of any of the rights of the grantor thereof who shall not thereby be precluded from exercising any rights against the grantee thereof which may have arisen in the past or may arise in the future.
 
 
From time to time and at all times hereafter and at the request of a Party, the other Party shall do and execute or cause to be done or executed all such acts, deeds and assurances whatsoever reasonably necessary for ensuring full and proper compliance with or performance of the terms of this Agreement.
 
 
The rights of a Party under this Agreement are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights provided by law.
 
 
The Buyer shall be entitled to register this Agreement against the Tenements and shall be entitled to lodge caveats against the Tenements at the Department to protect its interest under this Agreement.
 
 
If a Party enters into this Agreement as trustee of a trust, that Party and its successors as trustee of the trust will be liable under this Agreement in its own right and as trustee of the trust. Nothing releases the Party from any liability in its personal capacity. The Party warrants that at the date of this Agreement:
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule
 
 
 
as a deed.
Executed
 
 
 
Annexure A  Particulars of the Tenements
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
Annexure B  Particulars of the Assigned Agreements
 
Agreements affecting certain Tenements
 
 
 
 
 
Concentrates Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supply of Goods
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Power Supply Contract
 
 
Transport Agreement
 
 
Feeding Services Agreement
Crusher
 
 
 
Drilling contracts
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mining contracts
 
 
Maintenance Contracts
 
 
 
Other Service Contracts
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure C  Form of the Deed
 
 
Deed of Assignment and Assumption for [name of Assigned Agreement]
 
Dated
 
Parties
 
 
 
 
Background
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operative Provisions
 
 
 
In this Deed unless the context otherwise requires:
 
Agreement
means the agreement described in Item 4 of the Schedule;
 
Assigned Interest
means all of Retiring Party's legal and beneficial right, title, estate, claim and interest in, under and arising out of the Agreement;
 
 
Deed
means this deed and any amendment to it signed by all parties to this deed;
 
Obligations
means all and any covenants, agreements, obligations and liabilities contained in or arising under or in connection with the Agreement;
 
Operative Time
means [11:59pm, 30 June 2005]; and
 
Sale Agreement
means the Sale and Purchase Agreement between the Retiring Party and the Substituted Party dated
date
and stamped on
insert date
.
 
Settlement
means the settlement of the sale and purchase of the Golden Grove Operations contemplated by the Sale Agreement.
 
 
In this Deed unless the context otherwise requires:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to Settlement occurring, on and from the Operative Time the Retiring Party assigns to the Substituted Party and the Substituted Party accepts the assignment of, the Assigned Interest.
 
 
The Substituted Party agrees with each of:
 
 
 
 
 
Each Continuing Party:
 
 
 
Insert Name, Address, Fax, Contact Position
 
and
 
[OPTIONAL]
waives the Assignment Pre-conditions [
OR: agrees that the Assignment Pre-Conditions have been satisfied
].
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Substituted Party indemnifies the Retiring Party from all losses and claims against the Retiring Party which arise on or after the Operative Time in respect of the Assigned Interest.
 
 
The Continuing Party acknowledges and agrees that as at the Operative Time the Retiring Party is not in breach of the Agreement.
 
 
 
GST
means a goods and services tax imposed by the GST Legislation;
 
GST Act
means the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999;
 
GST Legislation
means the GST Act and associated legislation and regulations and words defined in the GST Legislation have the same meaning in this Deed;
 
GST Rate
at any particular time, means, the rate (expressed as a percentage) at which GST is payable by the Supplier of a Taxable Supply at that time;
 
Input Tax Credit
means the amount of input tax credit available to a Party under Division 11 and/or Division 15 of the GST Act;
 
Price
has the same meaning attributed to "price" in Section 9-75 of the GST Act;
 
Recipient
means either party when it is the recipient of a Supply;
 
Supplier
means either party when it makes a Supply;
 
Supply
means any supply pursuant to this Deed including but not limited to a Taxable Supply;
 
Tax Invoice
has the same meaning as "tax invoice" in Section 29-70 of the GST Act;
 
Taxable
Supply has the same meaning as in Section 9-5 of the GST Act;
 
 
Value
is the GST exclusive value of a Supply and has the same meaning attributed to "value" in Section 9-75 of the GST Act.
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any Supply is a Taxable Supply, then:
 
 
 
 
If a party purchases or acquires a Taxable Supply for which it is entitled to be reimbursed by the other party under the terms of this Deed, the party agrees that the reimbursable amount will be reduced by the full amount of the Input Tax Credit to which the party is entitled.
 
 
 
Each party must pay its own costs in relation to:
 
 
 
under this Deed, or any agreement or document executed or effected under this Deed, unless this Deed provides otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This document:
 
 
 
 
Each party must execute any document and perform any action necessary to give full effect to this Deed, whether before or after performance of this Deed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any provision of this Deed which is invalid in any jurisdiction is invalid in that jurisdiction to that extent, without invalidating or affecting the remaining provisions of this Deed or the validity of that provision in any other jurisdiction.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executed
as a deed.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEWMONT ANNOUNCES GOLDEN GROVE SALE
 
DENVER, June 23, 2005  Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) today announced the sale of its Golden Grove zinc-copper operation in Western Australia to Oxiana Limited (ASX: OXR), a publicly traded Australian mining company, effective June 30, 2005. Total consideration for the sale is expected to be approximately $205 million (A$265 million), including $147 million (A$190 million) cash and 81.5 million Oxiana shares, currently valued at approximately $58 million (A$75 million).
 
Golden Grove produced 10,400 ounces of gold, 51 million pounds of zinc and 20 million pounds of copper from January to May 2005, and contained year-end 2004 proven and probable reserves of 200,000 ounces of gold, 730 million pounds of zinc and 360 million pounds of copper.
 
Pierre Lassonde, Newmont's President, commented, "The sale of Golden Grove is part of our ongoing portfolio optimization efforts and represents our continuing focus on our core gold operations. Golden Grove's management and employees have done an excellent job creating value and we believe that the sale to Oxiana will provide a strong platform for continued success."
 
The sale is contingent on completion of final documentation by Oxiana's financiers and is expected to close in late July. A services agreement is in place to facilitate a smooth transition to Oxiana management. Newmont expects to record a non-cash charge to second quarter earnings of between $25 million and $35 million related to the sale of Golden Grove.
 
Notwithstanding the sale of Golden Grove, the Company reiterated its expectation for stronger operating performance in the second half of 2005. In addition, the Company reaffirmed that the second quarter's operating results will be similar to those reported for the first quarter of 2005.
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement
 
This news release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created by such sections. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation, (i) estimates of future gold and other metals production and sales; (ii) estimates of future costs; (iii) statements regarding future operations or transaction activity; and (iv) statements regarding future portfolio optimization. Where the company expresses or implies an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks include, but are not limited to, gold and other metals price volatility, currency fluctuations, increased production costs and variances in ore grade or recovery rates from those assumed in mining plans, and governmental regulation and judicial outcomes. For a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors, see the company's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the company's other SEC filings. The company does not undertake any obligation to release publicly revisions to any "forward-looking statement," to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this news release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.
 


