FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20060301162445.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Award of Bonuses for 2005 Performance
On February 23, 2006, the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Newmont Mining Corporation (the "Corporation") awarded annual cash incentives for 2005 the Corporation's Chief Executive Officer and the Corporation's other four most highly compensated executive officers in 2005 (the "named executive officers") in the amounts set forth below. Annual cash incentive awards were made pursuant to the Corporation's Annual Incentive Compensation Payroll Practice ("AICP"). The named executive officers (and other senior management) are eligible to receive both a corporate performance bonus and a personal performance bonus. Participants in the AICP are assigned target awards as a percentage of their eligible base salary. Target award percentages increase at higher management levels to 100% of eligible base salary in the case of the Chief Executive Officer. The weight of corporate performance and personal performance factors varies by participant.
The 2005 corporate performance bonus is paid in cash based on achievement of corporate performance goals, which consist of (a) certain goals relating to net asset value, (b) certain reserve replacement goals, (c) certain free cash flow goals, (d) an earnings goal, and (e) a gross margin goal. All of these performance goals were established by the Committee. The AICP bonus amount depends on the Corporation's performance against these goals. If the Corporation meets the goals, each eligible employee receives a payment equal to his or her target award percentage; if the Corporation exceeds the goals, the payment can increase to as high as 200% of the target award percentage; if the Corporation does not meet the goals, the payment can decrease and, if the Corporation fails to achieve certain threshold performance, the payment will not be made at all. In 2005, the Corporation achieved a corporate performance percentage of 84.7% of target performance, based on the Corporation's actual performance results as compared to the 2005 corporate performance goals.
The personal performance bonus is also paid in cash. Target bonus levels are determined by the grade level of each respective executive officer or other AICP participant, and payouts are based on an evaluation of each executive's personal contribution to the Corporation. In 2005, the maximum payout percentage for the personal performance bonus was 150% of the target level for the grade (with awards paid above the target level based on exemplary performance). Performance deemed to fall below expectations results in a payment below the target level, or in some cases no payment at all. In 2005, personal performance awards to the named executive officers and other AICP participants were based on certain factors such as the individual goals and accomplishments of the relevant executive officer or other AICP participant, as well as his or her contributions to the positive results realized by the Corporation during 2005.
In 2003, the Corporation eliminated the Intermediate Term Incentive Compensation Plan ("ITIP"), which paid bonuses in the form of cash and restricted stock based on a consolidated three-year performance measurement. The elimination of the ITIP resulted in a reduction in total direct compensation for the executive team. In order to address this reduction, the Committee approved cash transition payments over three years to those executives who previously participated in the ITIP. The transition payments are also based on the Corporation's achievement of corporate performance goals under the AICP, in which the Corporation achieved
 
a corporate performance percentage of 84.7% of target performance based on the Corporation's actual performance during 2005.
The following chart represents cash payments awarded to the named executive officers under the AICP and the transition payments described above for performance in 2004:
 
On February 23, 2006, the Committee also approved the award of restricted stock based on the Corporation's performance, which approval was ratified by the Board of Directors on February 24, 2006. Restricted stock awards are intended to reward the named executive officers and other eligible executives based on the attainment of corporate performance goals established by the Committee, which track the corporate performance goals established under the AICP, as described above. If the Corporation meets the corporate performance goals, each eligible executive will receive an award of shares equal to his or her target award percentage; if the Corporation exceeds the goals, the award can increase to as high as 200% of the target award percentage; if the Corporation does not meet the goals, the award can decrease and, if the Corporation fails to achieve certain threshold performance, the award will not be made at all. The named executive officers and other eligible executives have been assigned target awards based upon a percentage of their eligible base salary, which ranged from 75% to 135% for 2005 for the named executive officers. In 2005, the Corporation achieved a corporate performance percentage of 84.7% of target performance, based on the Corporation's actual performance results as compared to the 2005 performance goals. Restricted stock awards for 2005 were made in the form of restricted shares of Newmont Common Stock under the Newmont Mining Corporation 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, with such shares vesting in equal installments over three years. For Mr. Lassonde, restricted stock units (RSUs) were awarded. Prior to vesting, a holder of restricted stock units does not have the right to vote the underlying shares or receive any dividends. The RSUs vest in three equal increments over three years. Upon vesting, Mr. Lassonde is entitled to receive one share of Newmont common stock for each restricted stock unit. The named executive officers were awarded the following amounts of restricted stock of Newmont Common Stock for 2005:
 
 
The terms of the restricted stock and RSUs are governed by the Newmont Mining Corporation 2005 Stock Incentive Plan and are subject to the restrictions set forth in a standard form of award agreement which is delivered to each awardee. A copy of the form of restricted stock unit agreement under which such RSUs were made is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
Establishment of 2006 Performance Targets
The Committee also established and approved on February 23, 2006 certain goals relating to the corporate performance targets for the 2006 AICP, according to which annual cash incentives and restricted stock awards will be determined for 2006. The performance targets for 2006 consist of four performance factors, with equal weighting, which measure achievement of certain goals relating to (a) gold production, (b) costs of production, (c) cash flow, and (d) reserve growth. Starting in 2006, restricted stock awards will be made based on a three-year weighted average of performance under the corporate performance targets for the AICP, with additional awards being granted based on performance of the Corporation's share price as compared to gold price appreciation.
Base Salaries
On February 23, 2006, the Committee approved the annual base salaries of the Corporation's named executive officers after a review of personal performance and market data. Such salaries are effective March 1, 2006, except in the case of Mr. Murdy, whose 2006 salary is effective January 1, 2006. The following table sets forth the base salaries for the named executive officers for 2006. Mr. Francisco retired as an executive officer during 2005.
 
Lead Director Retainer
On February 23, 2006, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee recommended, and the Board of Directors approved on February 24, 2006, an increase in the retainer paid to the Lead Director of the Corporation from $5,000 to $15,000 per year. A summary of the Non-Employee Director Compensation and Benefits, as revised, is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: March 1, 2006
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Agreement ("Agreement") is dated as of February 24, 2006, between Newmont Mining Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Newmont") and [] ("Executive").
                    
WHEREAS, in recognition of Executive's contributions and services to Newmont and its Subsidiaries and affiliates during the 2005 calendar year, the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Newmont Board of Directors ("Newmont Committee") has awarded Executive a right to receive shares of Newmont's common stock ("Common Stock"), subject to the restrictions set forth in this Agreement pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Newmont Mining Corporation 2005 Stock Incentive Plan ("Plan"); capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given such terms in the Plan;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and as an inducement and incentive to Executive to perform his or her duties and fulfill his or her responsibilities on behalf of Newmont and its Subsidiaries at the highest level of dedication and competence, and other good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, Newmont hereby awards to Executive a right to receive [] shares of Common Stock, pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions and restrictions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan, including the Vesting Period, as such term is defined in this Agreement (the "RSUs"), and in connection with such award, Newmont and Executive hereby agree as follows:
            
1. The Vesting Period shall commence on the date of this Agreement and shall end on the dates set forth below as to that percentage of the total shares of Common Stock subject to this Agreement set forth opposite each such date:
Vesting Period.
 
2. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if (i) Executive dies, (ii) Executive's employment by Newmont or any Subsidiary terminates by reason of (1) Disability entitling Executive to long-term disability benefits under Newmont's Disability Plans, or a similar plan, as determined by the Committee, (2) retirement under Newmont's Pension Plan entitling Executive to an immediate pension, or as otherwise determined by the Committee, or (3) such other circumstances as may be approved in writing by the Vice President of Human Resources of Newmont, or (iii) there shall occur a Change of Control as defined in the Stock Plan, in any such case prior to the completion of the Vesting Period, the Vesting Period shall terminate, and all RSUs not theretofore forfeited in accordance with this Agreement shall become fully vested and nonforfeitable, as of the date of Executive's death or other termination
Termination of Employment.
of employment, referred to in clause (i) or (ii), or immediately prior to the date of any such event referred to in clause (iii). If Executive ceases to be employed by Newmont and/or a Subsidiary prior to completion of the Vesting Period under circumstances other than those set forth in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, Executive agrees that the RSUs awarded will be immediately and unconditionally forfeited without any action required by Executive or Newmont, to the extent that the Vesting Period had not ended in accordance with Paragraph 1 as of the date of such cessation of employment.
3. Executive shall not have any rights as a shareholder of Newmont with respect to the shares of Common Stock underlying the RSUs, including but not limited to the right to vote with respect to such shares of Common Stock, until and after the shares of Common Stock have been actually issued to Executive and transferred on the books and records of Newmont; upon vesting of the RSUs pursuant to the Vesting Period, or Executive's earlier termination of employment under circumstances entitling Executive to vest in the RSUs pursuant to Paragraph 2, Newmont shall make a cash payment to the Executive equal to any dividends paid with respect to shares of Common Stock underlying such RSUs from the date of this Agreement until the date such RSUs vest.
No Ownership Rights Prior to Issuance of Common Stock.
provided, however,
4. Upon vesting pursuant to the Vesting Period, or Executive's earlier termination of employment under circumstances entitling Executive to vest in the RSUs pursuant to Paragraph 2, Executive shall be entitled to receive the shares of Common Stock, less an amount of shares of Common Stock with a Fair Market Value on the date of vesting equal to the minimum required withholding obligation taking into account Executive's effective tax rate and all applicable federal, state, local and foreign taxes, and Executive shall be entitled to receive the net number of shares of Common Stock after withholding of shares for taxes unless such tax obligations are satisfied in accordance with Paragraph 5.
Withholding Taxes.
5. As soon as reasonably practicable following the date of vesting pursuant to the Vesting Period, or Executive's earlier termination of employment or other event entitling Executive to vest in the RSUs pursuant to Paragraph 2, Newmont shall cause to be delivered to Executive a stock certificate representing the number of shares of Common Stock (net of tax withholding as provided in Paragraph 4) deliverable to Executive in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; , , that Newmont may allow Executive to elect to have shares of Common Stock, which are deliverable in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement upon vesting (or a portion of such shares at least sufficient to satisfy Executive's tax withholding obligations with respect to such Common Stock), sold on behalf of Executive, with the cash proceeds thereof, net of tax withholding, remitted to Executive, in lieu of Executive receiving a stock certificate representing such shares.
Delivery of Shares of Common Stock.
provided
however
6. Executive's interest in the RSUs and any shares of Common Stock relating thereto may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, encumbered or otherwise alienated or hypothecated otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, prior to such time as the shares of Common Stock have actually been issued and delivered to Executive.
Nontransferability.
 
7. Executive acknowledges receipt of and understands and agrees to the terms of the RSUs award and the Plan. In addition to the above terms, Executive understands and agrees to the following:
Acknowledgements.
(a) Executive hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Plan and agrees to be bound by all of the terms and provisions thereof, including the terms and provisions adopted after the date of this Agreement but prior to the completion of the Vesting Period. If and to the extent that any provision contained in this Agreement is inconsistent with the Plan, the Plan shall govern.
(b) Executive acknowledges that as of the date of this Agreement, the Agreement and the Plan set forth the entire understanding between Executive and Newmont regarding the acquisition of shares of Common Stock underlying the RSUs in Newmont and supersedes all prior oral and written agreements pertaining to the RSUs.
(c) Executive understands that his or her employer, Newmont and its Subsidiaries hold certain personal information about Executive, including but not limited to his or her name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number, salary, nationality, job title and details of all RSUs or other entitlement to shares of Common Stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding ("personal data"). Certain personal data may also constitute "sensitive personal data" within the meaning of applicable law. Such data include but are not limited to the information provided above and any changes thereto and other appropriate personal and financial data about Executive. Executive hereby gives explicit consent to Newmont and any of its Subsidiaries to process any such personal data and/or sensitive personal data. Executive also hereby gives explicit consent to Newmont to transfer any such personal data and/or sensitive personal data outside the country in which Executive is employed, including, but not limited to the United States. The legal persons for whom such personal data are intended include, but are not limited to Newmont and its agent, Mellon Investor Services. Executive has been informed of his or her right of access and correction to his or her personal data by applying to Director of Compensation, Newmont Corporate.
(d) Executive understands that Newmont has reserved the right to amend or terminate the Plan at any time, and that the award of RSUs under the Plan at one time does not in any way obligate Newmont or its Subsidiaries to grant additional RSUs in any future year or in any given amount. Executive acknowledges and understands that the RSUs are awarded in connection with Executive's status as an employee of his or her employer and can in no event be interpreted or understood to mean that Newmont is Executive's employer or that there is an employment relationship between Executive and Newmont. Executive further acknowledges and understands that Executive's participation in the Plan is voluntary and that the RSUs and any future RSUs under the Plan are wholly discretionary in nature, the value of which do not form part of any normal or expected compensation for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any termination, severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, other than to the extent required by local law.
(e) Executive acknowledges and understands that the future value of the shares of Common Stock acquired by Executive under the Plan is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty and that no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from
 
the forfeiture of the RSUs or termination of the Plan or the diminution in value of any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan and Executive irrevocably releases Newmont and its Subsidiaries from any such claim that may arise.
8. Neither the RSUs nor any terms contained in this Agreement shall confer upon Executive any expressed or implied right to be retained in the service of any Subsidiary for any period at all, nor restrict in any way the right of any such Subsidiary, which right is hereby expressly reserved, to terminate his or her employment at any time with or without cause. Executive acknowledges and agrees that any right to receive delivery of shares of Common Stock is earned only by continuing as an employee of a Subsidiary at the will of such Subsidiary, or satisfaction of any other applicable terms and conditions contained in this Agreement and the Plan, and not through the act of being hired, being granted the RSUs or acquiring shares of Common Stock hereunder.
No Right to Continued Employment.
9. The award of the RSUs to Executive and the obligation of Newmont to deliver shares of Common Stock hereunder shall be subject to (a) all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, and (b) any registration, qualification, approvals or other requirements imposed by any government or regulatory agency or body which the Newmont Committee shall, in its sole discretion, determine to be necessary or applicable. Moreover, shares of Common Stock shall not be delivered hereunder if such delivery would be contrary to applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations.
10. If at the time of delivery of shares of Common Stock, the Common Stock is not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and/or there is no current prospectus in effect under the Securities Act with respect to the Common Stock, Executive shall execute, prior to the delivery of any shares of Common Stock to Executive by Newmont, an agreement (in such form as the Newmont Committee may specify) in which Executive represents and warrants that Executive is purchasing or acquiring the shares acquired under this Agreement for Executive's own account, for investment only and not with a view to the resale or distribution thereof, and represents and agrees that any subsequent offer for sale or distribution of any kind of such shares shall be made only pursuant to either (i) a registration statement on an appropriate form under the Securities Act, which registration statement has become effective and is current with regard to the shares being offered or sold, or (ii) a specific exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, but in claiming such exemption Executive shall, prior to any offer for sale of such shares, obtain a prior favorable written opinion, in form and substance satisfactory to the Newmont Committee, from counsel for or approved by the Newmont Committee, as to the applicability of such exemption thereto.
Investment Representation.
11. All capitalized terms that are used in this Agreement that are not defined herein have the meanings defined in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms of the Plan and the terms of this Agreement, the terms of the Plan shall prevail.
Definitions.
12Any notice or other communication required or permitted hereunder shall, if to Newmont, be in accordance with the Plan, and, if to Executive, be in writing and delivered in person or by registered or certified mail or overnight courier, postage prepaid, addressed to Executive at his or her last known address as set forth in Newmont's records.
. Notices.
 
13. If any of the provisions of this Agreement should be deemed unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability.
14. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law.
15. This Agreement may not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated by either party hereto, other than by operation of law. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns, including, in the case of Executive, his or her estate, heirs, executors, legatees, administrators, designated beneficiary and personal representatives. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to prevent transfer of the RSUs in the event of Executive's death in accordance with Section 16(b) of the Plan.
Transferability of Agreement.
16. This Agreement has been executed in two counterparts, each of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Newmont Mining Corporation has caused this Agreement to be executed by its Vice President and Secretary and Executive has executed this Agreement, both as of the day and year first written above.
 
Agreed to this day of , 2006.
    
                    
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
On the day following election/re-election as a director by the stockholders or on the day following appointment as a director by the Board, each non-employee director shall be entitled to receive Director Stock Units ("DSUs") with respect to common stock of Newmont Mining Corporation having a fair market value as of the day following election or appointment of U.S.$75,000. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each non-employee director may elect to receive the award in the form of shares of the Corporation's common stock, in lieu of DSUs, in respect of any year upon prior written notice to the Corporation's Corporate Secretary. Such awards will be made, on terms and conditions as determined by the Board, to those non-employee directors so elected, re-elected or appointed.
Committee Chairman Retainers
The Chairman of each standing committee of the Board will receive an annual cash retainer, paid quarterly in arrears, in the amount of $15,000 for the Chairman of the Audit Committee and $5,000 for the Chairman of each of the other committees.
Charitable Gift Programs
 
Retirement
On retirement, at any time after attaining age 65, a director who was serving on the Board on January 27, 1999, and who is not entitled to a pension under Newmont's pension plan, and who has served for at least ten consecutive years as a director of Newmont Mining Corporation or Newmont Gold Company, is entitled to be paid an annual sum of $50,000 for life.
Effective February 24, 2006
 


