FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20071130060925.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Newmont Mining Corporation ("Newmont") and Franco-Nevada Corporation ("Franco-Nevada") entered into an Acquisition Agreement, dated November 30, 2007, under which Newmont will sell to Franco-Nevada certain mineral royalties and oil and gas interests (the "Royalty Portfolio"). Under the terms of the Acquisition Agreement and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of applicable closing conditions, Franco-Nevada will acquire the Royalty Portfolio in a transaction valued at approximately $1.3 billion (assuming a 20-day average US dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate of 1.034). In the transaction, Newmont will receive from Franco-Nevada, in exchange for the assets, cash consideration consisting of the net proceeds raised from Franco-Nevada's initial public offering in Canada of 72 million common shares, the proceeds from the issuance of 3 million shares to members of Franco-Nevada's management and board of directors and $140 million to be drawn under a committed Franco-Nevada bank facility. The transaction is expected to close on December 20, 2007 following completion of the offering. The transaction is the result of the process announced earlier this year by Newmont to monetize the Royalty Portfolio to fund the development of its core gold business. Newmont expects to record a pre-tax gain from discontinued operations of approximately $0.95 billion in the fourth quarter in connection with the completion of the transaction.
Newmont has also executed an Underwriting Agreement, dated November 30, 2007, with Franco-Nevada and an underwriting syndicate led by BMO Nesbitt Burns Inc. and UBS Securities Canada Inc. in respect of Franco-Nevada's initial public offering in Canada.The Underwriting Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and conditions and requires Newmont to indemnify the underwriters under specified circumstances.
The Acquisition Agreement and the Underwriting Agreement will be filed as exhibits to an amendment to this Form 8-K.
 
Effective November 30, 2007, Newmont Mining Corporation of Canada Limited and Pierre Lassonde agreed to terminate the Consulting Agreement dated January 1, 2007 under which Mr. Lassonde provided certain merchant banking advice. Newmont Mining Corporation of Canada Limited is a subsidiary of Newmont.
 
Effective November 30, 2007, Mr. Lassonde resigned from the board of directors of Newmont Mining Corporation. Mr. Lassonde will serve as Non-Executive Chairman of Franco-Nevada Corporation.
 
In connection with the Acquisition Agreement described in Item 1.01 above, Newmont has issued a press release dated November 30, 2007, which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 30, 2007
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWMONT AGREES TO SELL ROYALTY AND OTHER NON-CORE ASSETS VALUED AT APPROXIMATELY $1.3 BILLION TO FRANCO-NEVADA
Expects to record pre-tax gain of approximately $0.95 billion in fourth quarter
DENVER, Colorado, November 30, 2007  Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) confirmed today that it has agreed to sell its royalty assets and certain other non-core investments to Franco-Nevada Corporation ("Franco-Nevada") in a transaction valued at approximately $1.3 billion (assuming a 20 day average US dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate of 1.034). The agreement marks the culmination of the process announced earlier this year by Newmont to monetize components of its royalty and equity portfolio to fund the development of its core gold business. Newmont expects to record a pre-tax gain from discontinued operations of approximately $0.95 billion in the fourth quarter in connection with the completion of the sale.
In connection with this transaction, Pierre Lassonde has resigned from Newmont's board of directors and will serve as Non-Executive Chairman of Franco-Nevada's board of directors.
Richard O'Brien, Newmont's President and CEO, said, "As we previously disclosed, we embarked upon a dual-track process to maximize the value of these assets for the benefit of our shareholders, and we are extremely pleased with the outcome. We remain focused on our core gold operations and intend to reinvest the proceeds to increase gold price leverage for our shareholders. I would like to take the opportunity to extend my personal gratitude and our sincere appreciation to Pierre Lassonde for his vision, counsel and tireless support of Newmont."
 
Cautionary Statement:
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of applicable Canadian and United States securities laws. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding the timing, terms and conditions and anticipated consequences of the possible transaction. Where statements by Newmont express or imply an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by such forward-looking statements. Newmont expressly disclaims any obligation to release publicly revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this news release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.
 


