FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20071219095144.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On December 13, 2007, the Board of Directors of Newmont Mining Corporation (the "Company"), elected Mr. Vincent A. Calarco as non-executive Chairman of the Board of the Company, effective January 1, 2008. Mr. Calarco will succeed Wayne W. Murdy as Chairman. Mr. Murdy will retire from the Board as of December 31, 2007. In accordance with the Company's bylaws, the Board of Directors decreased the size of the Board to 12 members, effective as of December 31, 2007.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Calarco's election and Mr. Murdy's retirement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: December 19, 2007
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
VINCENT CALARCO ELECTED CHAIRMAN OF NEWMONT'S BOARD OF DIRECTORS, SUCCEEDING WAYNE MURDY
Denver, Colorado, December 19, 2007Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) announced today Vincent A. Calarco was elected non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, effective January 1, 2008. Mr. Calarco succeeds Wayne Murdy as Chairman, who will retire from the Board at the end of the year. Mr. Calarco first joined Newmont's Board in 2000 and currently serves as Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
"I've admired Vince for his independence, integrity and sharp intellect," said Wayne Murdy, who retired as Chief Executive Officer in June. "I've appreciated his insight, CEO experience and guidance and I know Newmont's management team will benefit from his leadership."
Vincent Calarco was Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Crompton Corporation between 1985 and 2004. He is Director of the Consolidated Edison Inc. and served as President of Uniroyal Chemical Company from 1979 to 1985.
"I look forward to working with Vince in his new role as Chairman of our Board of Directors," said Richard O'Brien, President and CEO. "I am confident that under Vince's leadership, the Board will continue to provide the strategic direction and oversight necessary to help Newmont become The Gold Company of Choice through industry leading performance. The Board thanks Wayne for his years of distinguished service to the Company, and we wish him the best in retirement."
About Newmont:
Founded in 1921 and publicly traded on the NYSE since 1925, Newmont is one of the largest gold companies in the world. Headquartered in Denver, Colorado, the company employs approximately 15,000 people, the majority of whom work at Newmont's core operations in the United States, Australia, Peru, Indonesia and Ghana. Newmont is the only gold company listed in the S&P 500 index and in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index-World. Newmont's industry leading performance is reflected through high standards in environmental management, health and safety for its employees and creating value and opportunity for host communities and shareholders.
Investor and Media Contacts:
Newmont:
Investor Contact: John Seaberg 303.837.5743 john.seaberg@newmont.com
Media Contact: Omar Jabara 303.837.5114 omar.jabara@newmont.com
 


