FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20080714162407.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 11, 2008, PT Newmont Nusa Tenggara ("PTNNT"), an indirect subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation, issued a news release announcing that on July 10, 2008, PTNNT filed a notice to commence an additional international arbitration proceeding, as provided for under its Contract of Work with the Government of Indonesia, to resolve a claim that PTNNT breached its obligations under its Contract of Work by allowing its shares to be pledged to its senior lenders, a common practice for the financing of large projects. PTNNT views the additional arbitration proceeding as an extension of an ongoing arbitration proceeding with the Government of Indonesia, and has proposed that the share pledge issue be incorporated into and resolved as part of the existing proceeding. A copy of PTNNT's news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 11, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Jakarta, 11 July 2008  PT Newmont Nusa Tenggara (PTNNT) announced that yesterday it filed a notice to commence an additional arbitration proceeding to preserve its rights under a 1986 Contract of Work (CoW) with the Indonesian Government.
The additional arbitration filing is in accord with the terms of the CoW and in response to a 16 June 2008 letter from the Director General of Mineral, Coal and Geothermal Resources of the Department of Energy and Mineral Resources in Indonesia. The Director General's letter claims that PTNNT would be in default under the CoW if the shares of PTNNT offered for sale in March 2008, together with the shares offered in 2006 and 2007, were not in the possession of "Indonesian government and/ or government owned entities" by 13 July 2008.
The Director General's letter contends that PTNNT breached its obligations by allowing its shares to be pledged to its Senior Lenders as security for the repayment of US$1 billion in senior debt, a common practice for the financing of large projects. The pledge to the Senior Lenders was approved in writing by the Indonesian government in October 1997.
Background on the Financing of Batu Hijau's Construction
In 1997, to enable development of the Batu Hijau mine, PTNNT secured an aggregate US$1 billion in financing from the United States Export-Import Bank, the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (formerly the Japan Export-Import Bank), and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (the German Export-Import Bank) (collectively, the "Senior Lenders"). In accordance with common practice, the Senior Lenders required the shareholders of PTNNT  being Newmont Indonesia Limited, Nusa Tenggara Mining Corporaiton, and PT Pukuafu Indah, an Indonesian company  to pledge 100 percent of the shares of PTNNT as security for repayment of the loans. As part of that process, on 30 October 1997, the Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources approved the share pledge arrangements. The share pledge requirement does not impede the ability of PTNNT shares to be divested.
On 3 March 2008, after extensive negotiations failed to produce an amicable resolution, both PTNNT and the Government of Indonesia filed notices of arbitration in relation to the divestiture of shares in PTNNT that were offered for sale in 2006 and 2007. The international arbitration panel has been appointed in that proceeding and briefing is under way.
PTNNT views the additional arbitration proceeding as an extension of the previously filed arbitration proceeding and has proposed that the share pledge issue be incorporated into and resolved as part of the existing proceeding. Attaining divested/pledged shares does not hinder the purchaser in attaining any of the rights given to shareholders in the company.
 
For further information, kindly contact:
, Public Relations Manager PT Newmont Pacific Nusantara.
Rubi W. Purnomo
Mobile: 0815 183 7203 or
rubi.purnomo@newmont.com
, Public Relations Manager PT Newmont Nusa Tenggara.
Kasan Mulyono
Mobile: 0817 57 49482 or
kasan.mulyono@newmont.com


