FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20080923172141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On September 18, 2008, the Board of Directors of Newmont Mining Corporation elected the following officers, effective October 1, 2008: Russell Ball, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Alan R. Blank, Executive Vice President, Legal and External Affairs; Randy Engel, Executive Vice President, Strategic Development; Brian Hill, Executive Vice President, Operations; and Guy Lansdown, Executive Vice President, Development. A copy of the news release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: September 23, 2008
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
N A E V P, O O E M A
EWMONT
NNOUNCES
XECUTIVE
ICE
RESIDENT
PERATIONS
AND
THER
XECUTIVE
ANAGEMENT
PPOINTMENTS
DENVER, September 23, 2008Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE:NEM) today announced the selection of Brian Hill as Executive Vice President, Operations and other executive management appointments, effective October 1, 2008.
Richard O'Brien, Newmont's President and CEO, said, "Our Executive Leadership Team is now established and well positioned to drive further improvement in our operational and project execution. As we continue to develop our people and deliver on our plans, I am confident that this management team, along with our employees around the world, will create lasting value and opportunities for our shareholders, host communities and employees."
The executive management appointments are:
 
 
 
 
 
About Newmont
Founded in 1921 and publicly traded since 1925, Newmont () is one of the largest gold companies in the world. Headquartered in Denver, Colorado, the company has approximately 34,000 employees and contractors, with the majority working at Newmont's core operations in the United States, Australia, Peru, Indonesia and Ghana. Newmont is the only gold company listed in the S&P 500 index and in 2007 became the first gold company selected to be part of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. Newmont's industry leading performance is reflected through high standards in environmental management, health and safety for its employees and creating value and opportunity for host communities and shareholders.
www.Newmont.com
 
 


