FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20081022160145.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 21, 2008, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Newmont Mining Corporation (the "Company") increased the size of the Board to 12 and elected Simon R. Thompson to the Board. Mr. Thompson was elected to the Operations and Safety Committee. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Thompson and any other persons pursuant to which they were selected as directors. There have been no transactions with Newmont that exceed $120,000 in which Mr. Thompson had a direct or indirect interest, per Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
In connection with Mr. Thompson's election to the Board, he was granted director stock units on October 22, 2008, having a fair market value of $120,000. Mr. Thompson will also receive compensation as a non-employee director in accordance with the Company's director compensation policies as described in its 2008 Proxy Statement, dated February 28, 2008.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 22, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
N A S T E N' B D
EWMONT
NNOUNCES
IMON
HOMPSON
LECTED
TO
EWMONT
S
OARD
OF
IRECTORS
DENVER, October 22, 2008Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE:NEM) today announced Simon Thompson was elected to Newmont's Board of Directors, effective October 21, 2008.
Simon Thompson's career includes having served as Executive Director of Anglo American, as well as Chairman of the company's Base Metals and Exploration Divisions and the Tarmac Group. He also served as President of Minorco Brazil. Mr. Thompson has significant mining and finance experience in over 30 countries, and his background also includes executive positions with investment banks S.G. Warburg & Co. and N M Rothschild & Sons.
Mr. Thompson brings a wealth of board-related experience serving on the boards of various global companies including Sandvik (Sweden) and UC Rusal (Russia). He was also a non-executive director of AngloGold Ashanti (South Africa) from 2004-2008.
"Mr. Thompson's diverse and global experience will be a great asset to Newmont's Board of Directors," said Vincent Calarco, Chairman of the Board.
"I look forward to benefiting from Mr. Thompson's broad mining experience as we work to create value and opportunity for our shareholders, employees and host communities," said Richard O'Brien, President and Chief Executive Officer.
About Newmont
Founded in 1921 and publicly traded since 1925, Newmont () is one of the largest gold companies in the world. Headquartered in Denver, Colorado, the company has approximately 34,000 employees and contractors, with the majority working at Newmont's core operations in the United States, Australia, Peru, Indonesia and Ghana. Newmont is the only gold company listed in the S&P 500 index and in 2007 became the first gold company selected to be part of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. Newmont's industry leading performance is reflected through high standards in environmental management, health and safety for its employees and creating value and opportunity for host communities and shareholders.
www.Newmont.com
 


