FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20091029091836.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
FORM 8-K
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On October 29, 2009, Newmont Mining Corporation, a Delaware corporation, issued a news release reporting its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 29, 2009
 
3
 
 
 
4
 

 
Newmont Generates Record $1.1 Billion in Operating Cash Flow and Earns $388 Million ($0.79 per share) in the Third Quarter; 2010 Equity Production to Increase by 5% - - 10%
This release should be read in conjunction with Newmonts Third Quarter 2009 Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 29, 2009 (available at ).
www.newmont.com
DENVER, October 29, 2009  Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) (Newmont or the Company) announced record quarterly revenues of $2.0 billion and net cash from operations of $1.1 billion, resulting in net income of $388 million ($0.79 per share).
(1)(2)
Richard OBrien, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, Our continued focus on cost containment resulted in a 13% improvement in gold cost of sales per ounce over the same quarter last year.  Combined with the current favorable commodity price environment, our gold operating margin grew by 41% to $560 per ounce during the quarter.  Additionally, our equity gold sales grew by 4% from the year ago quarter resulting in record operating cash flow.  We also celebrated the first gold pour at our Boddington operation, with ramp-up efforts continuing toward commercial production in the fourth quarter.
Third Quarter Highlights:
 
 
 
 
Operations Summary
In the third quarter of 2009, the Company reported equity gold sales of at costs applicable to sales of .  Higher than expected sales at Yanacocha in Peru, Batu Hijau in Indonesia and Jundee in Australia were partially offset by lower than expected sales at Tanami in Australia.  Costs applicable to sales per ounce were better than expected as a result of higher production.
1.33 million ounces
$404
per ounce
- Nevada sold of gold at costs applicable to sales of during the third quarter.  Equity gold sales met expectations as lower grades and recoveries at Mill 6 were offset by higher inventory sales.  During the quarter, costs applicable to sales also met expectations as higher underground mining costs were offset by higher by-product credits.  The Company is maintaining its outlook on expected 2009 equity gold sales from Nevada of between .  The outlook for 2009 costs applicable to sales also remains unchanged at between .
Nevada
 
505,000
equity ounces
$541 per ounce
1.9 and 2.0 million ounces
$535 and $575 per ounce
 At Yanacocha, in Peru, equity gold sales during the third quarter were at costs applicable to sales of .  Equity gold sales were above expectations due to higher grades and throughput at the gold mill as well as higher leach production.  Costs applicable to sales per ounce were lower than expected due to higher gold sales, partially offset by higher royalty and production taxes from higher realized gold prices and from lower by-product credits.  For 2009, the Company continues to expect equity gold sales of between .  Costs applicable to sales for Yanacocha during 2009 also remain unchanged at between .
Yanacocha
285,000
ounces
$294
per ounce
1.0 and 1.05 million ounces
$300 and $320 per ounce
- Equity gold sales during the third quarter in Australia/New Zealand were at costs applicable to sales of .  Excluding Boddington, equity gold sales were higher than expected due to higher production at Jundee, Waihi and Kalgoorlie, partially offset by lower production at Tanami.  Costs applicable to sales were lower than expected due to the increase in production.  Since start-up began, the Boddington ramp-up has proceeded according to plan, with milling operations commenced, first gold poured and first copper concentrate shipped in September. The Company expects to declare commercial production in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Australia/New Zealand
289,000
ounces
$526
per ounce
Key operating highlights for Boddington include:
The Company is updating its 2009 outlook for the region for equity gold sales to between , down from the previously announced outlook of between , due to the later than expected start-up of Boddington.  For the same reason, the Company is updating its regional costs applicable to sales to between , up from the previously announced outlook of between .
1.2 and 1.3 million ounces
1.4 and 1.5 million ounces
$500 and $520 per ounce
$460 and $500 per ounce
 Equity gold and copper sales during the third quarter at Batu Hijau in Indonesia were and at costs applicable to sales of and , respectively.  Equity gold and copper sales were slightly higher than expected due to higher grades.  Total costs applicable to sales were lower than expected, primarily due to lower diesel costs and a higher build in ore stockpile inventory.  Costs applicable to sales allocated to gold were lower than expected as a result of co-product accounting.
Batu Hijau
93,000 ounces
64 million pounds
$178 per ounce
$0.50 per pound
On September 18, Batu Hijau experienced a geotechnical failure in the west wall of the open-pit.  Geotechnical monitoring systems and activities allowed for all personnel and mining equipment as well as key electrical and dewatering infrastructure to be evacuated and/or relocated well in advance of the slope failure.  Remediation activities commenced on September 28 and mining activities resumed on October 10.  The impact on 2009 gold and copper production is expected to be minimal and the Company continues to expect equity gold and copper sales from the mine of between and , respectively.  The Company is also maintaining its outlook for costs applicable to sales for copper of between   The Company lowered its outlook for costs applicable to sales for gold for 2009 to between from between previously.  In general, the Company expects delays in ore access previously anticipated in 2010 and 2011 with a marginal decrease in ore mined from the ultimate Phase 6 pit.
225,000 and 250,000 ounces
210 and 230 million pounds
$0.50 and $0.65 per pound.
$200 and $220 per ounce
$280 and $320 per ounce
 
 
Page 2 of 11
 
 
 Equity gold sales during the third quarter at Ahafo in Ghana were at costs applicable to sales of .  Equity gold sales met expectations as higher throughput and plant availability were offset by lower than anticipated recoveries and grades as a result of changes in mine sequencing.  Costs applicable to sales were slightly higher than expected due to the processing of higher cost stockpile material and higher royalty costs, partially offset by lower mining costs.  The outlook for hydro electric power availability continues to be positive and there is no expected load shedding for the remainder of the year. The Company continues to expect equity gold sales to be between and costs applicable to sales to be between .
Ahafo
136,000 ounces
$446 per ounce
500,000 and 525,000 ounces
$425 and $450 per ounce
 Equity gold sales at La Herradura in Mexico during the third quarter were at costs applicable to sales of .  Equity gold sales were in line with expectations and costs applicable to sales were lower than expected due to lower mining costs.
Mexico
 
23,000 ounces
$352 per ounce
2009 and 2010 Performance Outlook
Due to the extended start-up of Boddington, the Company estimates its outlook for 2009 equity gold sales to be approximately 5.2 million ounces, at the lower end of its previously estimated range.  The Company has narrowed its outlook for 2009 costs applicable to sales to between $400 and $425 per ounce, reflecting ongoing cost reduction efforts and favorable by-product credits.  The Companys costs applicable to sales forecast for 2009 now assumes an oil price of $80 per barrel and an Australian dollar exchange rate of 0.80 for the balance of the year.  Costs applicable to sales are expected to change by approximately $1 per ounce for every $10 change in the oil price and will not be materially impacted by changes in Australian dollar exchange rates due to hedge contracts currently in place for the remainder of the year.
For 2010, the Company announced that it expects equity gold production to improve by approximately 5-10%, primarily as a result of higher production from Boddington in Australia and Batu Hijau in Indonesia, partially offset by lower production in Nevada and Yanacocha in Peru.  The Company also announced that it expects 2010 costs applicable to sales to be modestly higher by approximately 5%, partially as a function of higher expected energy costs and adverse changes in exchange rates.
Capital Update
Consolidated capital expenditures were $430 million during the third quarter, with over 60% attributable to Boddington in Australia.  The Company now expects capital expenditures at Boddington to be approximately $3.0 billion on a 100% basis (excluding capitalized interest).  The Company has narrowed its 2009 consolidated capital expenditure outlook to be between $1.6 and $1.7 billion, primarily as a result of the later than expected start-up of Boddington which is offset by lower capital expenditures throughout the rest of the portfolio.
 
 
Page 3 of 11
 
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Income (unaudited, in millions, except per share)
 
 
 
Page 4 of 11
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited, in millions)
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11
 
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited, in millions)
 
 
Page 6 of 11
 
 
Sales Statistics
Includes incremental start-up ounces of 1 for both the first nine months of 2009 and the first nine months of 2008.
(1)   
Includes incremental start-up ounces of 3 and 19 for the third quarter and first nine months of 2008, respectively.
(2)   
 
 
Page 7 of 11
 
 
Costs Applicable to Sales and Consolidated Capital Expenditures Statistics
Excludes Amortization and Accretion.
(1)   
 
 
Page 8 of 11
 
 
 
Supplemental Information
- Management of the Company uses the non-GAAP financial measure Adjusted net income to evaluate the Companys operating performance, and for planning and forecasting future business operations.  The Company believes the use of Adjusted net income allows investors and analysts to compare the results of the continuing operations of the Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries relating to the production and sale of minerals to similar operating results of other mining companies, by excluding exceptional or unusual items, income or loss from discontinued operations and the permanent impairment of assets, including marketable securities and goodwill.  Managements determination of the components of Adjusted net income is evaluated periodically and based, in part, on a review of non-GAAP financial measures used by mining industry analysts.
Reconciliation of Adjusted Net Income to GAAP Net Income
Adjusted net income is not, and should not be used as, an alternative to GAAP Net income as reflected in the consolidated financial statements of the Company.  Adjusted net income is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and this measure should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute to performance measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.  The table below sets forth a reconciliation of Adjusted net income to GAAP Net income, which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
Net of gains on sales
(1)
Attributable to Newmont stockholders
(2)
 
 
Page 9 of 11
 
 
 
- The table below sets forth the Companys current outlook and forecast assumptions:
2009 Annual Guidance
 
To view complete financial disclosure, including regional mine statistics, Results of Consolidated Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Managements Discussion & Analysis, the Form 10-Q, and a complete outline of the 2009 Operating and Financial guidance by region, please see .
www.newmont.com
The Companys third quarter earnings conference call and webcast presentation will be held on Thursday, October 29, 2009 beginning at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time (8:00 a.m. Mountain Time).  To participate:
The conference call will also be simultaneously carried on the Companys website at under and will be archived there for a limited time.
www.newmont.com
Our Investors/Events and Presentations
 
 
 
Page 10 of 11
 
 
Cautionary Statement
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created by such sections and other applicable laws. Words such as expect(s), feel(s), believe(s), will, may, anticipate(s), estimate(s), should, intend(s) and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation, (i) estimates of future mineral production and sales; (ii) estimates of future costs applicable to sales, other expenses and taxes, for specific operations and on a consolidated basis; (iii) estimates of future capital expenditures, construction, production or closure activities; (iv) statements regarding future exploration expenditures, results and reserves; (v) statements regarding fluctuations in availability of capital or in relevant commodity and currency markets; (vi) statements regarding potential cost savings, productivity, financial or operating performance, and ownership and cost structures; (vii) expectations regarding the timing of the transfer of acquisitions or divestitures; (viii) expectations regarding the ramp-up, design, mine life, production and costs applicable to sales and exploration potential of the Boddington project and other projects and operations; and (ix) expectations regarding the impacts of operating or technical issues in connection with the Companys projects or operations.  Where the Company expresses or implies an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis.  However, forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Such risks include, but are not limited to, gold and other metals price volatility, currency fluctuations, increased production costs and variances in ore grade or recovery rates from those assumed in mining plans, political and operational risks in the countries in which we operate, and governmental regulation and judicial outcomes.  For a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors, see the Companys 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 19, 2009, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and its other SEC filings. The Company does not undertake any obligation to release publicly revisions to any forward-looking statement, to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this news release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.
 
 
Page 11 of 11
 


