FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20090430060900.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On April 30, 2009, Newmont Mining Corporation, a Delaware corporation, issued a news release reporting its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009.  A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
ITEM 9.01  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  April 30, 2009
 
3
 
 
4
 

Newmont Generates First Quarter Net Cash From Continuing Operations of $387 Million ($0.82 per share); Maintaining 2009 Outlook
This release should be read in conjunction with Newmonts First Quarter 2009 Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 30, 2009 (available at ).
www.newmont.com
DENVER, April 30, 2009  Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) (Newmont or the Company) today announced first quarter results, with net cash from continuing operations of $387 million ($0.82 per share) with equity gold sales of 1.27 million ounces at anaverage realized gold price of $906 per ounce.  Costs applicable to sales were $435 per ounce, and adjusted net income was $208 million ($0.44 per share).  Net income on a GAAP basis was $189 million ($0.40 per share) for the first quarter, compared to $365 million ($0.81 per share) in the prior year quarter, primarily due to lower realized gold and copper prices.
 
(1)
(2)
First Quarter 2009 Highlights:
 
 
Our operations provided solid results that were in-line with our expectations and this performance sets us up well to deliver on our operating plans for the full year in 2009.  Project execution is also going well and is a clear focus for the balance of the year.  Completing our Boddington project by mid-year and successfully ramping up to commercial production is a clear driver of our 2009 performance, said Richard OBrien, President and Chief Executive Officer.
Mr. OBrien further added, Lower commodity prices relative to last year both hurt and helped our performance in the first quarter.  Lower copper prices, in particular, negatively impacted our earnings and cash flow.  One the positive side, lower than expected diesel costs and Australian dollar exchange rates resulted in lower than expected costs applicable to sales.  If input commodity prices remain at our forecasted levels for the balance of the year and gold stays in the current trading range, we expect expanding margins for the rest of the year.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company is maintaining its previously announced 2009 equity gold sales outlook of between at costs applicable to sales of between .  The Companys costs applicable to sales forecast for 2009 now assumes an oil price of $50 per barrel and an Australian dollar exchange rate of 0.70 for the balance of the year.  Costs applicable to sales are expected to change by approximately $6 per ounce for every $10 change in the oil price and by roughly $3 per ounce for every 0.10 change in the Australian dollar exchange rate for the remainder of the year.
5.2 and 5.5 million ounces
$400 and $440 per ounce
Regional Operations
In the first quarter of 2009, the Company reported equity gold sales of at costs applicable to sales of .  The Companys operations delivered equity gold sales slightly above expectations as higher than expected sales in Nevada, Australia and at Batu Hijau in Indonesia were partially offset by lower sales at Yanacocha in Peru.  Costs applicable to sales per ounce were lower than expected in Nevada, in Australia, at Yanacocha, at Batu Hijau and at Ahafo, partially offset by higher costs at Kori Kollo in Bolivia.
1.27 million ounces
$435
per ounce
- Nevada sold of gold at costs applicable to sales of during the first quarter.  Equity gold sales were higher than expected primarily due to higher throughput at Mill 6 and the Sage Autoclave and higher underground production from Leeville, Chukar and Carlin East, partially offset by lower production at Midas due to the temporary suspension of mining following a ground failure which curtailed production in March but has since resumed as of the end of April 2009.  Although costs applicable to sales per ounce increased from the prior year quarter due to lower production, higher underground contracted service costs and lower by-product credits, results for the first quarter were below expectations due to higher gold sales and lower diesel costs.  The Company continues to expect 2009 equity gold sales from Nevada of between at costs applicable to sales of between .
Nevada
 
518,000
equity ounces
$509
per ounce
1.8 and 2.0 million ounces
$535 and $575 per ounce
- - Equity gold sales during the first quarter at Yanacocha in Peru were at costs applicable to sales of .  Equity gold sales were below expectations due to a change in mine sequencing that resulted in lower mill grades, partially offset by higher leach pad production.  Costs applicable to sales per ounce were lower than expected due to lower input costs partially offset by lower silver by-product credits and higher royalty and production taxes from higher realized gold prices.  The Company is maintaining its 2009 outlook for equity gold sales of between at costs applicable to sales of between .
Yanacocha
241,000
ounces
$324
per ounce
975,000 and 1,025,000 ounces
$290 and $310 per ounce
- Equity gold sales during the first quarter in Australia/New Zealand were at costs applicable to sales of .  Equity gold sales exceeded expectations as higher grades and recoveries at Jundee and Kalgoorlie more than offset lower throughput and recoveries at Tanami.  Costs applicable to sales per ounce were lower than expected due to higher gold sales and a more favorable Australian dollar exchange rate during the quarter, partially offset by higher royalties and production taxes. Regional costs applicable to sales are expected to change by approximately $15 per ounce for every 0.10 change in the Australian dollar exchange rate for the remainder of the year.  The Company is maintaining its 2009 outlook for equity gold sales of between at costs applicable to sales of between .
Australia/New Zealand
293,000
ounces
$492
per ounce
1.5 and 1.6 million ounces
$440 and $480 per ounce
- Equity gold and copper sales during the first quarter at Batu Hijau in Indonesia were   and , respectively, at costs applicable to sales of and , respectively.  Equity gold and copper sales were higher than expected primarily due to higher throughput from increased mill availability, higher recoveries and increased concentrate shipments.  Total costs applicable to sales were lower than expected as a result of lower input costs, partially offset by additional sales from higher cost concentrate inventories.  Costs applicable to sales allocated to gold were higher than expected due to the application of co-product accounting, which resulted in a higher allocation of costs to gold, as the Company realized higher gold revenues relative to copper during the quarter.  For 2009, the Company continues to expect equity gold and copper sales of between and , respectively.  As a result of an assumed higher gold price relative to copper, the Company now expects costs applicable to sales for gold and copper to be between and , respectively.
Batu Hijau
30,000
ounces
43
million pounds
$406
per ounce
$0.89
per pound
225,000 and 250,000 ounces
210 and 230 million pounds
$280 and $320 per ounce
$0.50 and $0.65 per pound
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Equity gold sales during the first quarter at Ahafo in Ghana were at costs applicable to sales of .  Equity gold sales were in-line with expectations as processing of higher grade material was offset by lower throughput.  Costs applicable to sales per ounce were lower than expected primarily due to lower input costs.  The Company is maintaining its 2009 outlook for equity gold sales of between from Ahafo.  As a result of lower oil prices and an improved power availability assumption, the Company has lowered its 2009 outlook for costs applicable to sales to between .
Ahafo
-
144,000 ounces
$399 per ounce
500,000 and 525,000 ounces
$425 and $450 per ounce
Capital Update
Consolidated capital expenditures were $330 million during the first quarter, with over 50% attributable to the Boddington project in Australia.  The Company is maintaining its 2009 consolidated capital expenditure outlook at between $1.4 and $1.6 billion.
- Development of the Boddington project in Australia was approximately 95% complete at the end of the first quarter, with start-up expected in mid-2009 and an anticipated 12-month ramp-up schedule. The Company continues to expect capital expenditures of between $2.6 and $2.9 billion on a 100% basis.  Assuming the completion of the previously announced acquisition of AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.s 33.33% interest in the Boddington project, the Company continues to expect annual gold sales of approximately one million ounces at costs applicable to sales of approximately $300 per ounce (net of by-product credits) for the first full five years of operation.
Boddington
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(1) Exclusive of Amortization and Accretion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales Statistics
     Includes incremental start-up ounces of 1 for the first quarter of 2008.
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Costs Applicable to Sales and Consolidated Capital Expenditures Statistics
     Excludes Amortization and Accretion.
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Information
- Certain amounts for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and at December 31, 2008 have been revised. The adjustments are of a normal recurring nature except as discussed below.  The Company retrospectively adopted FSP No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) (FSP APB 14-1), which requires an allocation of convertible debt proceeds between the liability component and the embedded conversion option (i.e., the equity component).  Additionally, the Company prospectively adopted FASB Statement No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements - an amendment of ARB No. 51 (FAS 160), with the exception of the presentation requirements which were adopted retrospectively.  FAS 160 requires the noncontrolling interests to be classified as a separate component of stockholders equity and net income.
Classification Reporting Changes
- Management of the Company uses the non-GAAP financial measure Adjusted net income to evaluate the Companys operating performance, and for planning and forecasting future business operations.  The Company believes the use of Adjusted net income allows investors and analysts to compare the results of the continuing operations of the Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries relating to the production and sale of minerals to similar operating results of other mining companies, by excluding exceptional or unusual items, income or loss from discontinued operations and the permanent impairment of assets, including marketable securities and goodwill.  Managements determination of the components of Adjusted net income are evaluated periodically and based, in part, on a review of non-GAAP financial measures used by mining industry analysts.
Reconciliation of Adjusted Net Income to GAAP Net Income
Adjusted net income is not, and should not be used as, an alternative to GAAP Net income as reflected in the consolidated financial statements of the Company.  Adjusted net income is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and this measure should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute to performance measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.  The table below sets forth a reconciliation of Adjusted net income to GAAP Net income, which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
 
Attributable to Newmont stockholders.
(1)
 
 
 
 
- The table below sets forth the Companys current outlook and forecast assumptions:
2009 Annual Guidance
To view complete financial disclosure, including regional mine statistics, Results of Consolidated Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Managements Discussion & Analysis, the Form 10-Q, and a complete outline of the 2009 Operating and Financial guidance by region, please see .
www.newmont.com
The Companys first quarter earnings conference call and webcast presentation will be held on Thursday, April 30, 2009 beginning at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time (8:00 a.m. Mountain Time).  To participate:
The conference call will also be simultaneously carried on the Companys website at under Our Investors/Events and Presentations and will be archived there for a limited time.
www.newmont.com
 
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created by such sections and other applicable laws. Words such as expect(s), feel(s), believe(s), will, may, anticipate(s), estimate(s), should, intend(s) and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation, (i) estimates of future mineral production and sales; (ii) estimates of future costs applicable to sales, other expenses and taxes, for specific operations and on a consolidated basis; (iii) estimates of future capital expenditures, construction, production or closure activities; (iv) statements regarding future exploration expenditures, results and reserves; (v) statements regarding fluctuations in capital and currency markets; (vi) statements regarding potential cost savings, productivity, operating performance, and ownership and cost  structures; (vii) expectations regarding the completion and timing of the remaining interest in Boddington acquisition and other acquisitions or divestitures; and (viii) expectations regarding the start-up time, design, mine life, production and costs applicable to sales and exploration potential of the Boddington project and other projects.  Where the Company expresses or implies an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis.  However, forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Such risks include, but are not limited to, gold and other metals price volatility, currency fluctuations, increased production costs and variances in ore grade or recovery rates from those assumed in mining plans, political and operational risks in the countries in which we operate, and governmental regulation and judicial outcomes.  For a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors, see the Companys 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 19, 2009, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the Companys other SEC filings. The Company does not undertake any obligation to release publicly revisions to any forward-looking statement, to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this news release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.
 
 


