FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20090219063656.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On February 19, 2009, Newmont Mining Corporation, a Delaware corporation, issued a news release reporting its financial results for the quarter ended and year ended December 31, 2008. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 19, 2009
 
3
 
 
 
4
 

 
 
Newmont Reports Record Annual Revenues in 2008 of
$6.2 Billion; 50% Increase in Adjusted Net Income
(1)
DENVER, February 19, 2009  Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) (Newmont or the Company) today announced record revenues in 2008, following the announcement of strong operating results on January 27, 2009.
2008 Highlights:
Newmont reported 2008 revenues of approximately $6.2 billion, a 12% increase from approximately $5.5 billion in 2007, with revenues from gold increasing by almost 27% over prior year.  A strong gold price environment during 2008, combined with equity gold sales and costs applicable to sales in line with original expectations, resulted in adjusted net income of $905 million ($1.99 per share), an increase of approximately 50% from the prior year.  On a GAAP basis, including a $234 million non-cash, pre-tax write-down of marketable securities and other assets, the Company reported net income of $853 million ($1.88 per share).  The Company also reported net cash provided from continuing operations of approximately $1.4 billion ($3.09 per share) despite the challenging cost environment in 2008.
(1)
For the fourth quarter, the Company generated net cash provided from continuing operations of $229 million ($0.50 per share) on equity gold and copper sales of 1.35 million ounces and 40 million pounds, respectively.  Newmont recorded adjusted net income of $120 million ($0.26 per share) despite reduced copper revenues resulting from the pronounced decline in the copper price in the fourth quarter.  Including the effect of provisional mark-to-market copper price adjustments and non-cash, pre-tax write-downs of approximately $145 million, the Company reported fourth quarter net income on a GAAP basis of $10 million ($0.02 per share).
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Richard OBrien, President and Chief Executive Officer said, We are pleased with the strong financial results for the fourth quarter and for 2008.  These results, combined with the operating results previously announced, continue to demonstrate our commitment to consistently delivering on our plans.  In the first part of 2009, we secured $1.7 billion in additional liquidity to improve our financial flexibility and to purchase the remaining 33.33% interest in Boddington, thereby giving Newmont full access to one of the largest gold projects in the world.  We are excited about Boddingtons potential and look forward to capitalizing on this unique opportunity.  As we turn our attention to 2009, our focus remains on operational and project execution, as well as disciplined capital investments.
Equity gold sales in 2009 are expected to increase to between at lower costs applicable to sales of between .  The Companys costs applicable to sales for 2009 assumes an oil price of $70 per barrel and an Australian dollar exchange rate of 0.75.  Costs applicable to sales in 2009 are expected to change by approximately $5 per ounce for every $10 change in the oil price and by approximately $5 per ounce for every 0.10 change in the Australian dollar exchange rate.  However, as the Company continues to pursue its disciplined Australian dollar and diesel hedging programs, these sensitivities may change throughout the year.
5.2 and 5.5 million ounces
$400 and $440 per ounce
Regional Operations:
In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company reported equity gold sales of at costs applicable to sales of as higher than expected sales at Batu Hijau, Ahafo, and Yanacocha were partially offset by lower than expected sales in Nevada and in Australia.  The Companys fourth quarter costs applicable to sales per ounce were impacted by higher than expected costs in Nevada, offset by lower than expected costs in Australia, at Yanacocha and at Ahafo.
1.35 million ounces
$448 per ounce
- - Nevada sold of gold at costs applicable to sales of during the fourth quarter.  Equity sales were slightly lower than expected primarily due to slower than anticipated recoveries from the Carlin South and Twin Creeks leach pads, lower recoveries at the Phoenix and Carlin mills, and the timing of gold sales with respect to Phoenix copper concentrates which remained in inventory at the end of the year.  Lower sales were partially offset by higher grades resulting from higher underground production.  Costs applicable to sales during the fourth quarter were higher than expected primarily due to lower than expected gold sales, higher underground contracted mining costs and lower by-product credits due to the significant drop in copper prices and volumes, partially offset by lower diesel costs.  Equity sales for the year were at costs applicable to sales of .
Nevada
601,000 equity ounces
$497 per ounce
2.2 million ounces
$460 per ounce
In 2009, the Company expects equity gold sales in Nevada to be between primarily due to lower expected ore grades, fewer oxide leach pad additions, and lower assumed recoveries at Mill 6. Costs applicable to sales are expected to increase to between , primarily due to reduced gold sales and lower assumed copper by-product credits at Phoenix, partially offset by the lower oil price assumption and a full-year of operation of the Nevada power plant.
1.8 and 2.0 million ounces
$535 and $575 per ounce
- - Equity gold sales during the fourth quarter at Yanacocha in Peru were at costs applicable to sales of .  Equity sales were above expectations due to more ounces placed on the La Quinua and Carachugo leach pads, and higher than expected production from the gold mill as throughput, grades and recoveries continue to exceed expectations.  Yanacocha costs applicable to sales per ounce were lower than expected primarily due to higher than expected gold sales, partially offset by lower by-product silver credits due to lower silver prices, higher workers participation costs and higher royalty expense. Equity gold sales for 2008 were at costs applicable to sales of .
Yanacocha
222,000
ounces
$344 per ounce
946,000 ounces
$346 per ounce
The Companys 2009 equity gold sales outlook for Yanacocha has increased to between , primarily due to increased recoveries and throughput as the gold mill will be operational for the entire year compared to approximately half of a year of operation in 2008. Costs applicable to sales are expected to decrease to between , primarily due to increased gold sales, the lower oil price assumption and increased silver by-product credits from the gold mill.
975,000 and 1.025 million ounces
$290 and $310 per ounce
 
 
- Equity gold sales during the fourth quarter in the Australia/New Zealand region were at costs applicable to sales of .  Equity gold sales were lower than expected due to lower grades and throughput at Tanami, lower throughput at Jundee, and lower grades and recoveries at Kalgoorlie, partially offset by higher grades and recoveries at Jundee, and higher throughput at Kalgoorlie and Waihi.  Costs applicable to sales were significantly lower than expected due to higher sales at Jundee, lower diesel costs and more favorable Australian dollar exchange rates during the quarter, partially offset by higher underground mining contracted services and royalty costs at Tanami.  Equity gold sales for the year were at costs applicable to sales of .
Australia/New Zealand
288,000 ounces
$526 per ounce
1.2 million ounces
$552 per ounce
Assuming 100% ownership of the Boddington project, reflecting the expected completion of the acquisition of the remaining 33.33% interest from AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., the Company expects 2009 equity gold sales in the Australia/New Zealand region to be between . The Company anticipates Boddington will add between 375,000 and 450,000 equity gold ounces in 2009. Costs applicable to sales are expected to decrease to between , primarily driven by the start-up of Boddington, lower costs at the Kalgoorlie operation, and the lower oil price and Australian dollar assumptions.  Australia/New Zealand regional costs applicable to sales are expected to change by roughly $20 per ounce for every 0.10 change in the Australia dollar exchange rate during 2009.
1.5 and 1.6 million ounces
$440 and $480 per ounce
- Equity gold and copper sales during the fourth quarter at Batu Hijau in Indonesia were and , respectively, at costs applicable to sales of and , respectively.  Equity gold and copper sales were higher than expected as better than anticipated weather allowed extended mining of Phase 4 ore, resulting in higher grades and recoveries.  Total costs applicable to sales were lower than expectations as fewer total tons were moved and more ore was placed onto stockpiles. Equity gold and copper sales for the year were and , respectively, at costs applicable to sales of and , respectively.
Batu Hijau
52,000 ounces
40 million pounds
$418 per ounce
$0.65 per pound
135,000 ounces
130 million pounds
$414 per ounce
$1.38 per pound
In 2009, the Company expects equity gold and copper sales to significantly increase to between and to between , respectively. This increase is primarily due to mine sequencing as mining shifts into the higher grade Phase 5. Costs applicable to sales are expected to decrease significantly in 2009 to between of gold and to between of copper. The decrease in costs applicable to sales is primarily driven by higher expected sales, the processing of higher grade ore compared to the lower grade stockpiles processed during 2008 and lower waste removal.
225,000 and 250,000 ounces
210 and 230 million pounds
$240 and $260 per ounce
$0.65 and $0.75
per pound
- - Equity gold sales during the fourth quarter at Ahafo in Ghana were at costs applicable to sales of .  Equity gold sales were higher than anticipated primarily due to higher grades, partially offset by lower tons processed.  Costs applicable to sales were significantly lower than expected due to the higher sales volume, a build in ore stockpile inventories, and lower mining costs due in part to lower fuel costs, offset by higher contracted services, maintenance and parts costs.  Equity gold sales for the year were at costs applicable to sales of .
Ahafo
141,000 ounces
$385 per ounce
521,000 ounces
$408 per ounce
Equity gold sales at Ahafo are expected to remain stable in 2009 at between
500,000 and 525,000
 
ounces
. Costs applicable to sales are expected to increase to between
$450 and $475
 
per ounce
in 2009, primarily as a result of higher labor costs, a lower benefit from the capitalization of waste material used in the construction of assets, and higher fuel consumption.
Capital Update:
Capital expenditures were $520 million during the fourth quarter, with approximately 40% attributed to the Boddington project in Australia.  In 2008, the Companys capital expenditures were approximately $1.9 billion, as the Company completed construction of the Nevada power plant and Yanacocha gold mill, and continued construction of the Boddington project in Australia.  Assuming 100% ownership of Boddington in 2009, capital expenditures are expected to decline to between on an equity basis).
$1.4 and $1.6 billion
($1.3 to $1.5 billion
 
 
- - Development of the Boddington project was 89% complete at the end of 2008, with start-up expected in mid-2009 and an anticipated 12-month ramp-up schedule.  The Company continues to expect total capital expenditures of between $2.6 and $2.9 billion on a 100% basis.  Assuming the completion of the previously announced acquisition of AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.s 33.33% interest in the Boddington project, the Company expects average annual gold sales of approximately one million ounces at costs applicable to sales of approximately $300 per ounce (net of by-product credits) for the first five years of operation.
Boddington
Exploration:
For 2009, the Company has budgeted exploration spending of approximately , focusing the majority of spending on sulfide targets at Yanacocha in Peru, and on reserve and non-reserve mineralization conversion in Nevada, at Hope Bay in Canada, Ahafo in Ghana, Tanami in Australia and Yanacocha in Peru.  Greenfields exploration will focus on selected land positions in South America, North America, West Africa and the Asia Pacific region building on the encouraging results from those areas in 2008.  The Company will continue to advance the Hope Bay project in Canada and the Gold Quarry West Wall layback in Nevada, in addition to recent greenfield discoveries in Armenia and Australia.
$165 to $175 million
 
 
Statements of Consolidated Income (Loss)
The Companys financial statements can be found on its website at .
www.newmont.com
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
The Companys financial statements can be found on its website at .
www.newmont.com
 
 
 
 
 
Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows
 
The Companys financial statements can be found on its website at .
www.newmont.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales Statistics
 
This information and other detailed regional production statistics can be found in the Regional Operating Statistics section of the Companys website at .
www.newmont.com
 
 
CAS and Capital Expenditures Statistics
 
This information and other detailed regional production statistics can be found in the Regional Operating Statistics section of the Companys website at .
www.newmont.com
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Information:
- Certain amounts for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2007 have been reclassified to conform to the 2008 presentation. The Company reclassified the World Gold Council dues from General and administrative to Other expense, net, reclassified Accretion from Costs applicable to sales to a separate Accretion line item, reclassified regional administrative and community development from Costs applicable to sales to Other expense, net and reclassified marketing costs from Costs applicable to sales to General and administrative. The Statements of Consolidated Income (Loss) and the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows have also been reclassified for discontinued operations. These changes were reflected for all periods presented.
Classification Reporting Changes
- Management of the Company uses the non-GAAP financial measure Adjusted net income to evaluate the Companys operating performance, and for planning and forecasting future business operations.  The Company believes the use of Adjusted net income allows investors and analysts to compare the results of the continuing operations of the Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries relating to the production and sale of minerals to similar operating results of other mining companies, by excluding exceptional or unusual items, income or loss from discontinued operations and the permanent impairment of assets, including marketable securities and goodwill.  Managements determination of the components of Adjusted net income are evaluated periodically and based, in part, on a review of non-GAAP financial measures used by mining industry analysts.
Reconciliation of Adjusted Net Income to GAAP Net Income
Adjusted net income is not, and should not be used as, an alternative to GAAP Net income as reflected in the consolidated financial statements of the Company.  Adjusted net income is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and this measure should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute to performance measures calculated in accordance with GAAP.  The tables below sets forth a reconciliation of Adjusted net income to GAAP Net income, the directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
 
 
As a result of adopting a recent accounting pronouncement related to the accounting treatment for convertible debt instruments, FSP APB 14-1, the Company expects its interest expense in 2009 to increase by approximately $55 million as a result of non-cash interest expense related to the treatment of the conversion feature for the Companys 2012, 2014 and 2017 convertible notes.  The table below sets forth the Companys current annual outlook and forecast assumptions:
2009 Annual Outlook
-
 
To view more detailed financial disclosure, including regional mine statistics, Results of Consolidated Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Managements Discussion & Analysis, relevant Risk Factors, and a complete outline of the 2009 Operating and Financial guidance by region, please see the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 19, 2009, available at .
www.newmont.com
The Companys fourth quarter and year-end earnings conference call and web cast presentation will be held on Thursday, February 19, 2009 beginning at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time (8:00 a.m. Mountain Time).  To participate:
The conference call also will be simultaneously carried on our web site at under Investor Relations/Presentations and will be archived there for a limited time.
www.newmont.com
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement:
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended that are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created by such sections and other applicable laws.  Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation, (i) estimates of future mineral production and sales; (ii) estimates of future costs applicable to sales, other expenses and taxes, for specific operations and on a consolidated basis; (iii) estimates of future capital expenditures, construction, production or closure activities; (iv) statements regarding future exploration expenditures, results and reserves; (v) statements regarding fluctuations in capital and currency markets; (vi) statements regarding potential cost savings, productivity, operating performance, and cost structure; (vii) expectations regarding the completion and timing of the remaining interest in Boddington acquisition; and (viii) expectations regarding the start-up time, design, mine life, production and costs applicable to sales and exploration potential of the Boddington mine.  Where the Company expresses or implies an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis.  However, forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Such risks include, but are not limited to, gold and other metals price volatility, currency fluctuations, increased production costs and variances in ore grade or recovery rates from those assumed in mining plans, political and operational risks in the countries in which we operate, and governmental regulation and judicial outcomes.  For a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors, see the Companys 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 19, 2009, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the Companys other SEC filings.  The Company does not undertake any obligation to release publicly revisions to any forward-looking statement, to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this news release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.
 


