FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20100119210926.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On January 18, 2010, Newmont Ghana Gold Limited (the "Company"), an indirect affiliate of Newmont Mining Corporation, issued a news release reporting that the Company received notification of the findings by a Ministerial Panel appointed by the Minister of Environment, Science & Technology of the Government of Ghana regarding an overflow incident that occurred on October 8, 2009, at the Company's Ahafo Mine in Ghana. In the report, the Panel recognized that there was no regulatory framework by which to assess compensation or penalties relating to such incidents, but recommended that compensation of seven million Ghana Cedis (approximately US $4.9 million dollars) be paid by the Company. The Company has confirmed its intention to satisfy applicable compensation obligations resulting from the overflow once the final amount of compensation has been determined and that the Company is implementing appropriate corrective measures. A copy of the Company's news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
NEWMONT MINING CORPORATION
Dated: January 20, 2010
By:        Jeffrey K. Reeser        Vice President and Secretary
s/ Jeffrey K. Reeser                                   
/
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
 Newmont Ghana announced today that it received notification from the Minister of Environment, Science & Technology of the report by the Ministerial Panel appointed to evaluate the Ahafo Mine Process Solution Overflow accident, which occurred on October 8, 2009. The company said it is prepared to finalize compensation for the overflow and has already implemented a number of corrective measures to prevent any future process solution releases.
Accra, 18 January 2010
In recognition of the overflow's impact, the company made initial compensation proposals to the Panel. While the report of the Panel recognized that there was no regulatory framework by which to assess compensation or penalties relating such incidents, it recommended that substantial compensation be paid and Newmont Ghana has stated its intention to meet its compensation obligations, once the process is complete.
Newmont Ghana also has reassured the government and local communities that the safety of its neighbours, employees and the environment is its first priority and that the company is committed to operating with high standards. Newmont's Senior Vice President for African Operations, Jeff Huspeni, emphasized, "The Company accepts responsibility for any failure to meet its standards, and we reiterate our regret and apologies for the overflow and for any anxiety caused in the local community over the safety of their drinking water supplies and fish."
The company is reviewing the report which says, among other things, the primary causes of the accidental release included operational supervision failures and some systems and mechanical failures.
The report also provides recommendations which are focused on strengthening risk awareness, incident classification and notification criteria, and enhancing capacity to recognize and respond to emergency situations.
Newmont Ghana has rigorously reviewed and modified its control systems and monitoring procedures  with the participation of regulatory agencies  to ensure incidents like this do not happen in the future. As a result, the company implemented a number of measures to:
 
Responding to suggestions that the company's failure to immediately notify government regulators of the overflow were indications of a possible "cover-up," Mr. Huspeni said that internal communications and assessment failures, along with the operational supervision lapses, resulted in the regulatory agencies not being immediately notified, which may have inadvertently created an appearance of an alleged "cover-up."
"Our failure to communicate immediately was due, in part, to the fact that our initial assessments mistakenly determined that the overflow was contained within the process plant area. Nevertheless, we should have notified the regulatory authorities immediately, and we apologized for failing to do so. This communication failure was a mistake on our behalf, and we will not let this happen again," Mr. Huspeni stated. "We are committed to working with the regulatory authorities to improve our reporting protocols and also to review and improve our emergency response mechanisms."
Since the time of the overflow, water sampling has continued to confirm that there is no threat from cyanide to human health or residual environmental impact. Newmont Ghana remains engaged with the local hamlets to ensure their wellbeing and to provide fresh water.
The company says it is continuing to engage with regulators to review the causes of the overflow, its impacts and will implement any additional recommendations to ensure an accidental release of this nature does not occur again.
"We are committed to improving our processes and to reassuring local communities of Newmont Ghana's ongoing commitment to their safety, while re-establishing confidence in our environmental controls and reporting mechanisms," said Mr. Huspeni. "Newmont's first priority remains the safety of our neighbors, employees and the environment."
Media Contact: Adiki O. Ayitevie Regional Manager, Communications 024 4330870
adiki.ayitevie@newmont.com


