FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20100225060322.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On February 25, 2010, Newmont Mining Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the Company), issued a news release reporting its financial results for the quarter ended and year ended December 31, 2009.  A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Additionally, on February 25, 2010, the Company issued a news release reporting 2009 Equity Reserves and 2010 Exploration activities.  A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
ITEM 9.01  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Dated:  February 25, 2010
 
3
 
 
 
4

 
 
Newmont Reports Record Operating Cash Flow of $2.9 Billion and Adjusted Net Income
(1)
of $1.4 Billion ($2.79 per Share) in 2009
DENVER, February 25, 2010  Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) (Newmont or the Company) today announced record operating cash flow of $2.9 billion and adjusted net income of $1.4 billion ($2.79 per share) in 2009 on record revenues of $7.7 billion from equity gold sales of 5.3 million ounces at costs applicable to sales of $417 per ounce.  Record revenues of $2.5 billion were generated in the fourth quarter, with $1.0 billion in operating cash flow generated on equity gold sales of 1.5 million ounces at costs applicable to sales of $413 per ounce.
2009 Highlights:
The combination of slightly higher production, lower costs and gold price leverage generated cash flow from operations of $2.9 billion on record revenues of $7.7 billion, while our gold operating margin expanded to 57%, said Richard OBrien, President and Chief Executive Officer. With the completion of construction of Boddington late last year, we now turn our attention to the development of our next generation of projects, including Akyem in Ghana, Conga in Peru, Hope Bay in Canada and our portfolio of growth projects in Nevada.
 
See reconciliation of adjusted net income to GAAP net income on page 12.
(1)
Gold operating margin defined as average realized price per ounce less costs applicable to sales per ounce, excluding amortization and accretion per ounce.
(2 )
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter Highlights:
For the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company reported equity gold sales of 1.5 million ounces at costs applicable to sales of $413 per ounce.  Equity gold sales were higher than expected in Nevada, at Yanacocha in Peru and at Ahafo in Ghana, offset by lower than expected sales from Boddington in Australia.  Costs applicable to sales were in line with expectations.
Summary of 2010 Outlook:
Equity gold production is expected to increase slightly to between 5.3 and 5.5 million ounces, primarily as a result of the continuing 12-month ramp-up to full production of Boddington, partially offset by lower production from Nevada and Yanacocha, as described below.  The Company expects 2010 gold costs applicable to sales to increase slightly to between $450 and $480 per ounce accounting for Boddington on a co-product basis, or to between $440 to $470 per ounce on a by-product basis, due to lower production from Nevada and Yanacocha.  The Company accounts for Boddington on a co-product basis due to the significant revenues from copper. The Companys costs applicable to sales outlook assumes an average oil price of $80 per barrel and an average Australian dollar exchange rate of $0.80.  Costs applicable to sales in 2010, inclusive of hedges, are expected to change by approximately $6 per ounce for every $10 change in the oil price and by approximately $7 per ounce for every $0.10 change in the Australian dollar exchange rate.
In 2010, the Company anticipates consolidated capital expenditures to decline by approximately 15% from 2009 to between $1.4 and $1.6 billion ($1.2 to $1.4 billion on an equity basis) due to the completion of Boddington in 2009, offset partially by approximately $0.6 billion (on a consolidated basis) of investment in the next generation of major projects, including Akyem in Ghana, Conga in Peru, Hope Bay in Canada and the portfolio of growth projects in Nevada, as described further below.  The remaining capital expenditures in 2010 are expected to be associated with maintenance and sustaining expenditures.
 
Regional Operations and Outlook:
 Nevada sold of gold at costs applicable to sales of during the fourth quarter.  Equity gold sales were above expectations due to higher grade from the underground operations and improved leach pad recoveries.  During the quarter, costs applicable to sales were lower than expected as higher production was partially offset by higher underground mining costs and production taxes.  Equity sales for the year were at costs applicable to sales of .
Nevada
 
567,000
equity ounces
$495 per ounce
2.0 million ounces
$521 per ounce
 
See reconciliation of adjusted net income to GAAP net income on page 12.
(1)
Gold operating margin defined as average realized price per ounce less costs applicable to sales per ounce, excluding amortization and accretion per ounce.
(2)
 
 
 
 
 
 
In 2010, the Company expects equity gold production from Nevada of approximately due to lower production from the Carlin operations and the closure of Deep Post, partially offset by increased production at Leeville.  Production from the Carlin operations is expected to be impacted by a geotechnical event that occurred at Gold Quarry in late December 2009, limiting access to ore that was originally scheduled to be mined in 2010 and 2011.  Following a series of geotechnical, mine planning and ore blending analyses conducted by the Company in January and February 2010, the Company now expects up to approximately 150,000 equity ounces of gold production to be deferred from Gold Quarry in 2010 and 2011. The Company currently anticipates mining these deferred ounces in 2012 and 2013, while continuing to study opportunities to safely accelerate that production.  2010 costs applicable to sales in Nevada are expected to increase to between primarily due to lower production and higher contracted mining costs, diesel and input commodity price assumptions.
1.6 to 1.7 million ounces
$590 and $630 per ounce,
 Equity gold sales at La Herradura in Mexico during the fourth quarter were at costs applicable to sales of .  Equity gold sales were higher than expected due to higher leach placement.  Costs applicable to sales were lower than expected due to higher sales and by-product credits.  Equity gold sales for the year were at costs applicable to sales of . La Herradura equity gold production is expected to reach in 2010 with costs applicable to sales of between .
La Herradura
 
34,000 ounces
$351 per ounce
113,000 ounces
$372 per ounce
140,000 to 150,000 ounces
$400 and $430 per ounce
For 2011, equity gold production in the North America region is expected to remain at 2010 levels, with the potential for slightly higher production in 2012, primarily due to higher production from underground and open pits from the Nevada Growth projects as well as higher production from La Herradura in Mexico and mining of the deferred ounces at Gold Quarry in Nevada.  Costs applicable to sales in 2011 and 2012 are expected to remain near 2010 levels, with the potential of decreasing with the addition of the growth projects in Nevada and La Herradura production.
(3)
 Equity gold sales during the fourth quarter at Yanacocha in Peru were at costs applicable to sales of .  Equity gold sales were slightly below expectations due to lower leach production, offset in part by higher mill production due to higher grades and recoveries.  Costs applicable to sales were slightly higher than expected due to higher royalties and workers participation from higher realized gold prices, partially offset by higher gold sales and by-product credits.  Equity gold sales for the year were at costs applicable to sales of .
Yanacocha
262,000
ounces
$303
per ounce
1.06 million ounces
$311 per ounce
Equity gold production at Yanacocha is anticipated to decrease from 2009 levels to between , primarily due to lower ore tons mined and lower grades.  Costs applicable to sales are anticipated to increase to between due to lower production and higher contracted services and supplies.
750,000 and 810,000 ounces in 2010
$360 and $400 per ounce
Equity gold production and costs applicable to sales in the South America region in 2011 and 2012 are expected to remain near 2010 levels.  As the Company continues to advance the Conga project toward a final development decision in 2010, permitting dependant, the anticipated first production at Conga in the late 2014 to 2015 timeframe could add, on a 100% basis,  annual gold production of approximately 650,000 to 750,000 ounces, as well as annual copper production of up to 160 to 210 million pounds during the first five years of steady-state operations at average costs applicable to sales of approximately $300 to $400 per ounce and $0.95 to $1.25 per pound, respectively.
(3)
At Boddington, ramp-up to full production in the plant is proceeding according to plan.  Equity gold sales during the fourth quarter were at costs applicable to sales of Equity gold production is anticipated to reach in 2010 with costs applicable to sales of on a co-product basis ($295 to $315 per ounce on a by-product basis).  After ramping up to full production, we continue to expect Boddingtons first five years of annual production to average approximately 1.0 million ounces. Additionally, in 2010 equity copper production at Boddington is anticipated to reach at costs applicable to sales of between .
Boddington
103,000 ounces
$468 per ounce ($352 per ounce on a by-product basis).
800,000 to 875,000 ounces
$375 to $395 per ounce
65 to 75 million pounds
$1.30 and $1.45 per pound
 
All references to expected production at each of our operations and regions are based on current mine plans, assumptions and current geotechnical, metallurgical, hydrological and other physical conditions.
(3)
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Equity gold sales during the fourth quarter were at costs applicable to sales of .  Equity gold sales met expectations as higher production at Jundee was offset by lower production at Tanami.  Costs applicable to sales were in line with expectations.  Equity gold sales for the year were at costs applicable to sales of .  Equity gold production at the Companys other Australian/New Zealand operations in 2010 is expected to be between at costs applicable to sales of
Other Australia/New Zealand
 
292,000
ounces
$528 per ounce
1.2 million ounces
$512 per ounce
1.06 and 1.16 million ounces
$530 to $570 per ounce.
 Equity gold and copper sales during the fourth quarter at Batu Hijau in Indonesia were and at costs applicable to sales of and , respectively. Equity gold and copper sales met expectations as did costs applicable to sales.  Equity gold and copper sales for the year were and at costs applicable to sales of and , respectively.
Batu Hijau
68,000 ounces
63 million pounds
$175 per ounce
$0.58 per pound
239,000 ounces
217 million pounds
$214 per ounce
$0.62 per pound
2010 equity gold production at Batu Hijau, assuming the current economic interest of 52.44%, is expected to increase to between , primarily due to a higher economic interest and higher ore grades as mining occurs in the bottom of Phase 5.  Costs applicable to sales are expected to increase to between due to higher waste stripping.  Equity copper production is expected to increase to be between at costs applicable to sales of between .
390,000 and 425,000 ounces
$265 and $285 per ounce
285 and 310 million pounds
$0.75 and $0.85 per pound
Equity gold production in the Asia Pacific region in 2011 and 2012 is expected to remain near 2010 levels, primarily due to increased production at Boddington and extended mine-life at Jundee and Waihi, offsetting declining production at Tanami and Batu Hijau.  Over the same period, costs applicable to sales are anticipated to increase as lower cost production from Boddington will be offset by higher costs at Batu Hijau in Indonesia as the Company continues stripping Phase 6.
(3)
 Equity gold sales during the fourth quarter at Ahafo in Ghana were at costs applicable to sales of .  Equity gold sales were higher than expected due to a drawdown of finished goods inventory.  Costs applicable to sales were higher than expected due to higher labor, contracted services and maintenance costs.  Equity sales for the year were at costs applicable to sales of .
Ahafo
134,000 ounces
$506 per ounce
546,000 ounces
$444 per ounce
2010 equity gold production at Ahafo is expected to decline to between due to mining additional waste material and lower ore grade.  Costs applicable to sales are anticipated to increase to primarily as a result of lower production, higher diesel price assumptions and higher labor and royalty costs.
460,000 and 500,000 ounces
$515 to $555 per ounce,
Equity gold production and costs applicable to sales in the Africa region in 2011 and 2012 are expected to remain near 2010 levels. With the granting of the required mining license earlier this year, the Company is advancing the development of Akyem. First production is currently anticipated in late 2013 to 2014 with the addition of up to 480,000 to 550,000 equity gold ounces annually during the first five years of operation at costs applicable to sales of between $350 and $450 per ounce. Additionally, the potential future development of the Subika underground project should sustain production at Ahafo at 2010 levels. Collectively, the addition of potential production from the Akyem and Subika underground projects could more than double the Companys equity gold sales in Ghana over the next five years.
(3)
 
All references to expected production at each of our operations and regions are based on current mine plans, assumptions and current geotechnical, metallurgical, hydrological and other physical conditions.
(3)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Capital Expenditures Update:
Consolidated capital expenditures were $455 million during the fourth quarter, with approximately 33% related to completion of the Boddington project in Australia.  For the year, the Companys consolidated capital expenditures were approximately $1.8 billion, approximately 62% of which was related to Boddington.
For 2010, the Company anticipates lower consolidated capital expenditures of between $1.4 and $1.6 billion ($1.2 to $1.4 billion on an equity basis) with approximately 30% to be invested in each of the North America and Asia Pacific regions, and the remaining 40% at other locations.  Approximately 40% of the 2010 capital is expected to be related to major project initiatives, including further development of the Akyem project in Ghana, the Conga project in Peru, Hope Bay in Canada and other projects, while the remaining 60% is expected to be for maintenance and sustaining expenditures.
2010 Operating and Financial Outlook:
(3)
Boddington shown on a co-product basis.
1
Assumes Batu Hijau economic interest of 52.44%.
2
The 2010 outlook for costs applicable to sales with Boddington on a by-product basis would be $295 to $315 per ounce, $375 to $415 per ounce for the Asia Pacific region and $440 to $470 per ounce for the Company, with no Boddington copper revenue or CAS.
 
All references to expected production at each of our operations and regions are based on current mine plans, assumptions and current geotechnical, metallurgical, hydrological and other physical conditions.
(3)
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets out the Companys financial outlook for 2010 and corresponding outlook assumptions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statements of Consolidated Income
(1)  Exclusive of Amortization and Accretion.
 
The Companys financial statements can be found on its website at .
www.newmont.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
 
The Companys financial statements can be found on its website at .
www.newmont.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows
 
 
The Companys financial statements can be found on its website at .
www.newmont.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales Statistics
 
 
 
This information and other detailed regional production statistics can be found in the Regional Operating Statistics section of the Companys website at
www.newmont.com
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CAS and Capital Expenditures Statistics
 
 
 
 
This information and other detailed regional production statistics can be found in the Regional Operating Statistics section of the Companys website at .
www.newmont.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supplemental Information:
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Non-GAAP financial measures are intended to provide additional information only and do not have any standard meaning prescribed by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Reconciliation of Adjusted Net Income to GAAP Net Income
 
Management of the Company uses the non-GAAP financial measure Adjusted net income to evaluate the Companys operating performance, and for planning and forecasting future business operations.  The Company believes the use of Adjusted net income allows investors and analysts to compare the results of the continuing operations of the Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries relating to the production and sale of minerals to similar operating results of other mining companies, by excluding exceptional or unusual items, income or loss from discontinued operations and the permanent impairment of assets, including marketable securities and goodwill.  Managements determination of the components of Adjusted net income are evaluated periodically and based, in part, on a review of non-GAAP financial measures used by mining industry analysts.
 
The table below sets forth a reconciliation of adjusted net income to GAAP Net income, the directly comparable GAAP financial measure.
 
 
(1) Attributable to Newmont stockholders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Boddington Co-Product Costs Applicable to Sales to By-Product Costs Applicable to Sales
 
Revenue and Costs applicable to sales for Boddington are presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements for both gold and copper due to the significant portion of copper production (approximately 15-20% of total revenue based on the latest life-of-mine plan and metal price assumptions). The co-product method allocates costs applicable to sales to each metal based on specifically identifiable costs where applicable and on a relative proportion of revenue values for other costs. Management also assesses the performance of the Boddington mine on a by-product basis due to the majority of revenues being derived from gold and to determine contingent consideration payments that may be paid to AngloGold to acquire the remaining 33.33% interest in Boddington. The by-product method deducts copper revenue from costs applicable to sales as shown in the following table.
 
 
(1) Excludes incremental start-up sales of 8 ounces.
 
To view more detailed financial disclosure, including regional mine statistics, Results of Consolidated Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Managements Discussion & Analysis, relevant Risk Factors, and a complete outline of the 2009 Operating and Financial guidance by region, please see the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 25, 2010, available at .
www.newmont.com
 
The Companys fourth quarter and year-end earnings conference call and web cast presentation will be held on Thursday, February 25, 2010 beginning at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time (8:00 a.m. Mountain Time).  To participate:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The conference call also will be simultaneously carried on our web site at under Investor Relations/Presentations and will be archived there for a limited time.
www.newmont.com
 
 
Cautionary Statement:
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended which are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created by such sections and other applicable laws.  Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation: (i) estimates of future mineral production and sales; (ii) estimates of future costs applicable to sales, other expenses and taxes, for specific operations and on a consolidated basis; (iii) estimates of future capital expenditures, construction, production or closure activities; (iv) statements regarding future exploration expenditures, results and reserves; (v) statements regarding fluctuations in capital and currency markets; (vi) statements regarding potential cost savings, productivity, operating performance, and cost structure; (vii) expectations regarding the ramp-up, mine life, production and costs applicable to sales and exploration potential of Boddington and the Companys other projects; and (viii) expectations regarding the impacts of operating, technical or geotechnical issues in connection with the Companys projects or operations.  Estimates or expectations of future events or results are based upon certain assumptions, which may prove to be incorrect.  Such assumptions, include, but are not limited to: (i) there being no significant change to current geotechnical, metallurgical, hydrological and other physical conditions; (ii) permitting, development, operations and expansion of the Companys projects being consistent with current expectations and mine plans; (iii) political developments in any jurisdiction in which the Company operates being consistent with its current expectations; (iv) certain exchange rate assumptions for the Australian dollar to the U.S. dollar, as well as other the exchange rates being approximately consistent with current levels; (v) certain price assumptions for gold, copper and oil; (vi) prices for key supplies being approximately consistent with current levels; and (vii) the accuracy of our current mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates. Where the Company expresses or implies an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis.  However, forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Such risks include, but are not limited to, gold and other metals price volatility, currency fluctuations, increased production costs and variances in ore grade or recovery rates from those assumed in mining plans, political and operational risks in the countries in which we operate, and governmental regulation and judicial outcomes.  For a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors, see the Companys 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 25, 2010, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the Companys other SEC filings.  The Company does not undertake any obligation to release publicly revisions to any forward-looking statement, to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this news release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Newmont Reports 8% Increase in Equity Gold Reserves to 91.8 Million Ounces; Details 2010 Exploration Funding and Opportunities
DENVER, February 25, 2010  Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) (Newmont or the Company) today reported 2009 equity gold reserves of 91.8 million ounces, an 8% increase over 2008, and equity copper reserves of 9.1 billion pounds, a 17% increase over 2008.
Equity gold measured and indicated resources (NRM) for 2009 were 1.1 billion tons at an average grade of 0.020 ounces per ton, up from 0.8 billion tons at a grade of 0.026 ounces per ton for 2008. Equity copper NRM for 2009 were 796 million tons at an average grade of 0.17%, up from 431 million tons at a grade of 0.13% from 2008.
Reserve additions came from all regions, with notable additions from Gold Quarry in Nevada, Boddington in Australia, underground operations across Australia and New Zealand and at Ahafo in Ghana.
A combination of strong 2009 exploration results and the Boddington acquisition resulted in equity gold reserves at our highest level since 2006 and equity gold NRM at the highest level since 2003. said Guy Lansdown, Executive Vice President of Discovery and Development.  These increases, combined with our generative exploration opportunities, will support future sustainability in each of our operating regions.
 
 
 
Exploration, Advanced Projects, Research & Development
The recent success of the Companys exploration program, combined with a demonstrated ability to advance exploration programs through development and into production, has established a platform for future growth.  To provide increasing value for shareholders, Newmont plans to continue aggressively advancing its most prospective near mine and generative exploration development opportunities into production.
The 2010 exploration budget is between $190 and $220 million, an increase of approximately 10% from 2009.  In addition, funding for Advanced Project development has increased to between $185 and $210 million, a 40% increase from 2009.  These exploration and advanced project development programs are designed to generate and develop the projects that will help drive production in the decades to come.
Approximately 75% of the exploration budget is focused on programs within Newmonts existing operating districts and major land packages, including the prospective gold belts at Hope Bay in Canada and in Suriname.  These exploration programs are designed to support production, replace reserves, optimize existing assets, explore and advance copper opportunities and to develop new brown field projects that leverage existing facilities and infrastructure.
The additional Advanced Project development programs are coordinated with our exploration efforts, with exploration delivering new resources that are effectively advanced through the development pipeline in each of the operating regions.  The Companys more notable exploration and advanced project development opportunities include Hope Bay in Canada, the Greater Leeville-Turf project in Nevada, the Subika underground project in Ghana, expansion drilling at Boddington in Australia, and multiple programs targeting underground resource expansions across Australia and New Zealand and sulfide exploration and development programs in Peru.
Hope Bay, Canada
At Hope Bay in Canada, positive 2009 drilling and regional exploration results have reinforced the positive view of exploration potential across the 80 kilometer greenstone belt.  The Company is advancing development with an underground focus, to be initiated with a decline at the Doris North deposit.  The Company has deployed an experienced project development team and key contractors are in place to aggressively advance this underground opportunity.  With near-term development plans and district exploration for years to come, Hope Bay remains a significant asset within the Companys portfolio. The Company expects to spend approximately $60 to $70 million on advanced project development and near mine exploration in 2010 at Hope Bay, excluding capital.
Greater Leeville-Turf, Nevada
In Nevada, the Company has a portfolio of multiple open pit and underground projects.  One of these opportunities is the Greater Leeville-Turf program, where the Company has a surface exploration program extending well beyond known mineralization.  Early results from both surface and underground exploration programs suggest significant potential for resource expansion, with recent surface gold intercepts including CGX-24 with 32 feet at 0.7 ounces per ton and CGX-12 with 151 feet at 0.6 ounces per ton, all accessible by extensions of current underground infrastructure. The Company expects to spend approximately $75 to $85 million on advanced project development and near mine exploration in 2010 in Nevada, excluding capital.
 
 
 
 
Subika Expansion, Ghana
The Subika Expansion project at our Ahafo operation in Ghana is focused on developing reserves by expanding the existing open pit and through underground development.  The Company is concurrently advancing exploration and development with surface drilling to define the exploration potential and underground drifting and future drilling for resource and project development.  An exploration decline was successfully initiated in February 2010 and underground development is advancing rapidly. The Company expects to spend approximately $10 to $15 million on advanced project development and near mine exploration in 2010 in Ghana, excluding capital.
Australia / New Zealand
As Boddington ramps-up to full production, the Company continues to step out with exploration to the north and east, where preliminary results suggest significant opportunity for higher grade, shallow resource additions.  Across Australia and in New Zealand, the Company is expanding underground resources with surface and underground exploration and development programs.  One such opportunity is the Gateway project at Jundee, where drilling continues to identify a new vein system to the south of current resources with potential exploration drifting scheduled for late 2010 to early 2011. The Company expects to spend approximately $20 to $30 million on advanced project development and near mine exploration in 2010 in Australia/New Zealand, excluding capital.
Yanacocha District, Peru
In South America, the Companys exploration focus is on unlocking the sulfide opportunities within the Yanacocha district and around the Conga project.  Advanced exploration and development of the large gold-copper sulfide resources underlying current Yanacocha oxide pits is ongoing.  As a result, research and development of metallurgical process options for potentially minable resources is advancing.  In addition, the Chaquicocha Sur sulfide project has advanced into Stage 2, with a program focused on an underground mining option to develop this high grade resource.  In addition, while basic engineering and permitting advances on the Conga project, multiple gold-copper porphyry targets across the prospective land package are being explored to maximize the value of this world class project. The Company expects to spend approximately $25 to $30 million on advanced project development and near mine exploration in 2010 in Peru.
 
 
Supplemental Information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To view more detailed financial disclosure, including regional mine statistics, Results of Consolidated Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Managements Discussion & Analysis, relevant Risk Factors, and a complete outline of the 2009 Operating and Financial guidance by region, please see the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 25, 2010, available at .
www.newmont.com
The Companys fourth quarter and year-end earnings conference call and web cast presentation will be held on Thursday, February 25, 2010 beginning at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time (8:00 a.m. Mountain Time).  To participate:
 
The conference call also will be simultaneously carried on our web site at under Investor Relations/Presentations and will be archived there for a limited time.
www.newmont.com
 
 
Cautionary Statement:
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created by such sections and other applicable laws.  Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation: (i) estimates of future mineral production and sales; (ii) estimates of future costs applicable to sales, other expenses and taxes, for specific operations and on a consolidated basis; (iii) estimates of future capital expenditures, construction, production or closure activities; (iv) statements regarding future exploration expenditures, results and reserves; (v) statements regarding fluctuations in capital and currency markets; (vi) statements regarding potential cost savings, productivity, operating performance, and cost structure; (vii) expectations regarding the ramp-up, mine life, production and costs applicable to sales and exploration potential of Boddington and the Companys other projects; and (viii) expectations regarding the impacts of operating, technical or geotechnical issues in connection with the Companys projects or operations.  Where the Company expresses or implies an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis.  However, forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Such risks include, but are not limited to, gold and other metals price volatility, currency fluctuations, increased production costs and variances in ore grade or recovery rates from those assumed in mining plans, political and operational risks in the countries in which we operate, and governmental regulation and judicial outcomes.  For a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors, see the Companys 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 25, 2010, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the Companys other SEC filings.  The Company does not undertake any obligation to release publicly revisions to any forward-looking statement, to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this news release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.
 
 


