FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20110407060240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01. OTHER EVENTS.
On April 5, 2011, Newmont Mining Corporation (the "Company") announced it will hold its Investor Day presentation on April 7, 2011 beginning at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time and provide a simultaneous webcast. A copy of the news release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
On April 6, 2011, the Company also announced that it has completed the previously announced acquisition of all of the outstanding common shares of Fronteer Gold Inc. A copy of the news release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report.
On April 7, 2011, the Company announced its gold production growth plan and its gold price-linked dividend policy. A copy of the news release is attached as Exhibit 99.3 to this Current Report.
The information, including the exhibits attached hereto, in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise stated in such filing.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
By: Name: Jeffrey K. Reeser Title: Vice President and Secretary
  /s/ Jeffrey K. Reeser  
Dated: April 7, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
Newmont Announces Investor Day Presentation and Webcast
DENVER, April 5, 2011  Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) announced it will hold its Investor Day presentation on Thursday, April 7, 2011 beginning at 9:30am EDT. A webcast will be available beginning at 9:30am EDT on April 7 and can be found on the "Investor Relations" section of the Company's website. The webcast will be archived for a limited time on the Company's website.

Exhibit 99.2
Newmont Completes Acquisition of Fronteer Gold
DENVER, April 6, 2011  Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) today announced that it has completed the previously announced acquisition of all of the outstanding common shares of Fronteer Gold Inc. for aggregate cash consideration of approximately Cdn$2.3 billion (with a net cash acquisition cost of Cdn $2.2 billion).

Exhibit 99.3
Newmont Announces Plan to Increase Annual Gold Production to Approximately 7 Million Ounces by 2017
Gold Price-Linked Dividend Policy Introduced
DENVER, April 7, 2011  Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) will discuss today at its annual Investor Day conference the comprehensive plan for the development of its current global portfolio of assets that would increase annual gold production to approximately 7 million ounces by 2017. This production target represents a potential aggregate increase of approximately 35% in anticipated 2017 annual production from the Company's previously announced 2011 attributable gold production outlook of 5.1 to 5.3 million ounces. The Company also announced a new dividend policy that will link its quarterly dividend payment to Newmont's average realized price of gold sales.
"Newmont offers investors a powerful combination of organic growth potential from projects that can be developed with competitive returns and significant exploration upside," said Richard O'Brien, President and Chief Executive Officer. "With our strong balance sheet and cash flow, we are positioned to fund profitable growth and to pay a new gold price-linked dividend."
The Company's Investor Day presentation highlights the following five key points:
 
A live webcast of Newmont's Investor Day and the detailed presentation will be accessible on Newmont's website at . The live webcast begins at 9:30 EDT today.
www.newmont.com
Cautionary Statement:
This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created by those sections and other applicable laws. Those forward-looking statements include,without limitation, estimates and expectations of, and statements regarding: (i) the Company's strategy and plans; (ii) future equity gold and equity copper production; (iii) future operating, sales and other costs; (iv) future capital expenditures; (v) project returns; (vi) project start dates, ramp up, life and expansion opportunities; (vii) potential ounces or tons of reserves, NRM and potential resources; (viii) exploration pipeline, potential or upside, opportunities, growth; (ix) dividend policy; (x) future liquidity; and (xi) other financial outlook for the Company's operations and projects. Those forward-looking statements include,without limitation, statements that use forward-looking terminology such as "may", "will", "expect", "anticipate", "potential", "target", or the negative or other variations of those terms or comparable terminology. Estimates or expectations of future events or results are based upon certain assumptions, which may prove to be incorrect. Those assumptions include, without limitation: (i) there being no significant change to current geotechnical, metallurgical, hydrological and other physical conditions; (ii) permitting, development, operations and expansion of the Company's projects being consistent with current expectations and mine plans; (iii) political developments in any jurisdiction in which the Company operates being consistent with its current expectations; (iv) certain exchange rate assumptions for the Australian dollar to the U.S. dollar, as well as other the exchange rates being approximately consistent with current levels; (v) certain price assumptions for gold, copper and oil; (vi) prices for key supplies being approximately consistent with current levels and such supplies otherwise being available on bases consistent with the Company's current expectations; and (vii) the accuracy of our current mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates and exploration information. Where the Company expresses or implies an expectation or belief as to future events or results, that expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and is believed to have a reasonable basis. However, forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by the "forward-looking statements". Those risks, uncertainties and other factors include (without limitation): (i) gold and other metals price volatility; (ii) currency fluctuations; (iii) increased capital and operating costs, and scarcity of and competition for required labor and supplies; (iv) variances in ore grade or recovery rates from those assumed in mining plans: (v) operating or technical difficulties; (vi) political and operational risks in the countries in which we operate; and (vii) governmental regulation and judicial outcomes. For a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors, see the Company's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 24, 2011, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the Company's other SEC filings. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, given that they involve risks and uncertainties. The Company does not undertake any obligation to release publicly revisions to any forward-looking statement except as may be required under applicable securities laws. Investors should not assume that any lack of update to a previously issued forward-looking statement constitutes a reaffirmation of that statement. Continued reliance on forward-looking statements is at investors' own risk.


