FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20111025171237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory
Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On October 25, 2011, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Newmont Mining Corporation (the "Company") voted to increase the size of the Board from 10 to 12 members and elected Bruce R. Brook and Jane Nelson to fill the newly created vacancies. In addition, Mr. Brook was appointed to serve on the Audit Committee and Ms. Nelson was appointed to serve on the Environmental, Social Responsibility, Operations and Safety Committee.
There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Brook or Ms. Nelson and any other persons pursuant to which they were selected as directors. There have been no transactions with the Company that exceed $120,000 in which Mr. Brook or Ms. Nelson had a direct or indirect interest, per Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
In connection with Mr. Brook's and Ms. Nelson's election to the Board, each will be granted a director stock award having a fair market value of $120,000. Mr. Brook and Ms. Nelson will also receive compensation as non-employee directors in accordance with the Company's director compensation policies as described in its 2010 Proxy Statement, dated April 19, 2011.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 25, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
Jane Nelson and Bruce Brook Elected to Newmonts Board of Directors
DENVER, October 25, 2011  (NYSE: NEM) (Newmont or the Company) today announced the election of Jane Nelson and Bruce Brook to its Board of Directors (the Board), after the Board voted to increase its size from 10 to 12 members. Both elections are effective today.
Newmont Mining Corporation
Ms. Nelsons exceptional background in corporate social responsibility and Mr. Brooks diverse mining and finance experience exemplify why these talented individuals will be excellent additions to Newmonts Board, said Vincent Calarco, Chairman of the Board.
Jane Nelson is the founding Director of the Harvard Kennedy Schools Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative where she is an Adjunct Lecturer in Public Policy. Ms. Nelson is also a nonresident senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a Senior Associate of Cambridge Universitys Programme for Sustainability Leadership. In 2009, she was one of five track leaders for the Clinton Global Initiative, leading the track on developing human capital.
For 16 years, Ms. Nelson was a Director at the Prince of Wales International Business Leaders Forum, where she now serves as a Senior Advisor. In 2001, she worked with the United Nations (UN) Global Compact in the office of the UN Secretary-General preparing a report for the General Assembly on cooperation between the UN and the private sector. Ms. Nelson also worked for the Business Council for Sustainable Development in Africa, for FUNDES in Latin America and as a Vice President at Citibank working in Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Additionally, she is a member of ExxonMobils External Citizenship Advisory Panel and General Electrics Citizenship Stakeholder Advisory Panel.
Bruce Brook brings 30 years of mining, finance and accounting experience to Newmont. He served as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of WMC Resources Limited, from 2002 to 2005 and has held key executive roles, including Deputy CFO of ANZ Banking Group Limited, Group Chief Accountant of Pacific Dunlop Limited, and General Manager, Group Accounting positions at CRA Limited and Pasminco Limited. 
Mr. Brook also brings a wealth of board-related experience, formerly serving as a Director and Chairman of the Audit Committees of Lihir Gold Limited, Consolidated Minerals Limited and Energy Developments Limited. He currently serves on the Board of Directors for Boart Longyear Pty. Ltd., Programmed Group (as Chairman) and CSL Limited. In addition, Mr. Brook is a member of the Financial Reporting Council in Australia and the Audit Committee of the Salvation Army (Southern Command, Australia).
Delivering on our strategic plan to grow gold production by 35 percent and double copper production by 2017 will require strong leadership and execution, and it is a pleasure to welcome Ms. Nelson and Mr. Brook to Newmont. I look forward to working with them on enhancing our ability to deliver industry leading performance and value to our shareholders, employees and host communities, said Richard OBrien, President and Chief Executive Officer.
 
Founded in 1921 and publicly traded since 1925, Newmont () is one of the largest gold companies in the world. Headquartered in Colorado, the Company has more than 35,000 employees and contractors, with the majority working at core operations in the United States, Australia, Peru, Indonesia and Ghana. Newmont is the only gold company listed in the S&P 500 index and in 2007 became the first gold company selected to be part of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. Newmonts industry leading performance is reflected through high standards in environmental management, health and safety for its employees and creating value and opportunity for host communities and shareholders.
About Newmont
www.newmont.com
###
 


