FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20121004170859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Brian Hill, Executive Vice President, Sustainability and External Affairs of Newmont Mining Corporation (the "Company"), will be departing the Company on October 14, 2012.
Effective as of such date, Mr. Hill's duties relating to the Company's Corporate and Global Environmental and Social Responsibility ("ESR") functions, will transition to John Mudge on an interim basis. Mr. Mudge has managed the Company's North America ESR function since 2008 in the role of Regional Vice President, ESR of Newmont USA Ltd. and has worked in various positions in operations and ESR at the Company for over 30 years. Mr. Mudge will report directly to the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Richard O'Brien. Mr. Hill's duties relating to the Company's Government Relations function will be led by Stephen Gottesfeld, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, on an interim basis.
In connection with Mr. Hill's departure, he will receive severance benefits in accordance with the Company's Executive Severance Plan at the E3 level. The Executive Severance Plan was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 27, 2011, as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Form 10-Q for the period September 30, 2011.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 4, 2012
 


