FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20120725161100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On July 24, 2012, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Newmont Mining Corporation (the "Company") appointed J. Kofi Bucknor to serve on the Board as an independent director. In addition, Mr. Bucknor was appointed to serve on the Audit Committee.
There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Bucknor and any other persons pursuant to which he was selected as a director. There have been no transactions with the Company that exceed $120,000 in which Mr. Bucknor had a direct or indirect interest, per Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
In connection with Mr. Bucknor's election to the Board, he will be granted a director stock award having a fair market value of $130,000. Mr. Bucknor will also receive compensation as a non-employee director in accordance with the Company's director compensation policies as described in its 2012 Proxy Statement, dated March 7, 2012.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 25, 2012
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
J. Kofi Bucknor Elected to Newmont's Board of Directors
DENVER, July 25, 2012  (NYSE: NEM) ("Newmont" or the "Company") announced the election of J. Kofi Bucknor to its Board of Directors (the "Board").
Newmont Mining Corporation
"Mr. Bucknor is a well-respected Ghanaian economist and businessman who will bring significant financial and governmental experience, as well as extensive knowledge of one of Newmont's strategic development and operating regions, to Newmont's Board," said Vincent Calarco, Chairman of the Board.
Mr. Bucknor is Chairman of Ghana's Investment Advisory Committee, which advises on the management of part of the country's oil revenues, and is the former Chairman of the Ghana Stock Exchange. In addition, Mr. Bucknor serves on numerous boards, including Chirano Gold Mines (Ghana), National Investment Bank (Ghana), ARM (Nigeria), and CNIA Assurances (Morocco), and formerly served as a Director of Ashanti Goldfields Corporation and Ecobank Transnational Corporation and as a member of the International Advisory Board of Normandy Mining Corporation.
Mr. Bucknor has over 30 years of extensive international banking experience. He began his distinguished professional career at Chemical Bank and served as a Vice President and as the Bank's Regional Representative for West and Central Africa. He joined the African Development Bank in Abidjan as Deputy Treasurer in 1986, becoming Treasurer from 1990 to 1994 with responsibility for the bank's capital market operations. He then joined Lehman Brothers International, London in 1994 as an Executive Director, Corporate Finance with responsibility for Africa. In 1997, Mr. Bucknor returned to Ghana as Managing Director of CAL Merchant Bank until 2000 when he formed his own corporate finance advisory firm, J. Kofi Bucknor & Associates.
"It is a pleasure to welcome Mr. Bucknor to Newmont. I look forward to working with him on enhancing our ability to deliver industry leading performance and value to our shareholders, employees and host communities," said Richard O'Brien, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer.
About Newmont
Founded in 1921 and publicly traded since 1925, Newmont is one of the largest gold companies in the world. Headquartered in Colorado, the Company has approximately 44,000 employees and contractors, with the majority working at core operations in the United States, Australia, Peru, Indonesia and Ghana. Newmont is the only gold company listed in the S&P 500 index and in 2007 became the first gold company selected to be part of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. Newmont's industry leading performance is reflected through high standards in environmental management, health and safety for its employees and creating value and opportunity for host communities and shareholders.
(http://www.newmont.com/)
 
 


