FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20120223214803.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
__________________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
 
February 23, 2012
 
Newmont Mining Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
Delaware
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
 
001-31240
(Commission File Number)
 
84-1611629
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 
6363 South Fiddlers Green Circle
Greenwood Village, Colorado 80111
(Address of principal executive offices) (zip code)
 
(303) 863-7414
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On February 23, 2012, Newmont Mining Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the Company), issued a news release reporting its financial results for the quarter ended and year ended December 31, 2011. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Additionally, on February 23, 2012, the Company issued a news release reporting 2011 reserve estimates, 2011 exploration highlights and 2012 planned exploration activity. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
  
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d) Exhibits 
 
 
 
 SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
  
Dated: February 23, 2012
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Newmont Announces Record Operating Cash Flow of $3.6 Billion and Record Annual Revenue of $10.4 Billion in 2011
Record adjusted net income of $2.2 Billion, or $4.39 per share
DENVER, Feb. 23, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) ("Newmont" or the "Company") reported income from continuing operations of $0.5 billion or $1.02 per share, compared with $2.3 billion, or $4.69 per share in 2010. Adjusted net income(1) was a record $2.2 billion, or $4.39 per share in 2011, compared with $1.9 billion, or $3.85 per share a year ago. Income from continuing operations was impacted by $1.6 billion, or $3.24 per share, from the non-cash write-down of the Company's Hope Bay project in Canada. This write-down had no impact on reported operating cash flows, cash balances or proven and probable reserves of the Company.
2011 Financial Highlights:
Record operating cash flow of $3.6 billion, up 13% from 2010;
Record regular dividends paid to shareholders of $494 million, up 100% from 2010, representing a payout ratio of 23% of adjusted net income;
Gold operating margin of $971 per ounce, up 32% from 2010;
Record revenue of $10.4 billion, up 9% from 2010;
Attributable gold(2) and copper production of 5.2 million ounces and 206 million pounds, down 4% and 37%, respectively, from 2010;
Gold and copper costs applicable to sales ("CAS")(3) of $591 per ounce and $1.26 per pound, up 22% and 58%, respectively; and
Record average realized gold and copper price of $1,562 per ounce and $3.54 per pound, up 28% and 3%, respectively, from 2010.
Q4 2011 Financial Highlights:
Approved Q1 2012 dividend payable of $0.35 per share;
Attributable gold and copper production of 1.3 million ounces and 47 million pounds, respectively;
Gold and copper CAS of $602 per ounce and $1.58 per pound, respectively; and
Average realized gold and copper price of $1,670 per ounce and $3.41 per pound, respectively.
"We are pleased to announce a 32% increase in our operating margin for 2011, compared to a 28% increase in our average realized gold price for the year," commented Richard O'Brien, President and CEO. "Our increasing margins provide us with the financial strength to continue to focus on returning capital to our shareholders. During 2011, we paid out an industry leading $494 million in dividends, representing 23% of adjusted net income from continuing operations," added Mr. O'Brien.
Operating Results and Outlook
In 2011, the Company reported attributable gold and copper production of 5.2 million ounces and 206 million pounds, respectively, at costs applicable to sales of $591 per ounce, and $1.26 per pound, respectively, on a co-product basis. Attributable 2011 gold production decreased 4% from 2010 levels due to lower production in the South America and Asia Pacific regions. Costs applicable to sales per ounce increased 22% over the prior year due to lower production, higher royalty and waste mining, higher co-product allocation of costs to gold and a stronger Australian dollar, partially offset by lower silver and copper by-product credits. Costs applicable to sales per pound increased 58% over the prior year due to lower production, higher waste mining at Batu Hijau and higher mill maintenance costs at Boddington, partially offset by lower co-product allocation of costs to copper.
2012 attributable gold production is expected to be approximately 5.0 million to 5.2 million ounces, with attributable copper production of 150 to 170 million pounds. The outlook reflects lower expected production at Batu Hijau in Indonesia, where the Company is currently engaged in Phase 6 stripping and plans to process lower grade stockpiles until late 2013, partially offset by higher production expected at Nevada and at Ahafo in Ghana. Costs applicable to sales for gold are expected to be between $625 and $675 per ounce due to lower expected production at Batu Hijau, combined with higher expected costs for labor, energy, royalties, and contracted services, particularly in the Asia Pacific region. Costs applicable to sales for copper are expected to be between $1.80 and $2.20 per pound of copper due to lower production at Batu Hijau.
Regional Operations
North America
- Attributable gold production was 523,000 ounces in the fourth quarter and 1.7 million ounces in 2011. Costs applicable to sales were $519 and $603 per ounce, for the fourth quarter and 2011, respectively.
Nevada
Fourth quarter attributable gold production increased from the prior year quarter due to the resumption of mining at Gold Quarry, higher grade and recovery at Mill 5 and higher throughput at Juniper mill. Costs applicable to sales per ounce decreased from the prior year quarter due to slightly lower operating costs.
2011 attributable gold production increased slightly from the prior year due to the commencement of underground mining at Exodus and Pete Bajo, higher Gold Quarry production after resolution of previous geotechnical issues, and higher underground production at Leeville, partially offset by lower production from the Chukar underground mine. Total surface ore tons mined were 75% higher primarily due to completing remediation of a slope failure at Gold Quarry. Ore placed on leach pads increased 84% to 8.3 million tons due to higher leach ore tons mined from Lantern as well as re-leaching of ore at Lone Tree. Costs applicable to sales per ounce increased 7% due to higher surface mining and milling costs and higher royalties, partially offset by higher silver and copper by-product credits.
-Attributable gold production was 56,000 ounces in the fourth quarter and 212,000 ounces in 2011. Costs applicable to sales were $609 and $527 per ounce in the fourth quarter and 2011, respectively.
La Herradura
Fourth quarter attributable gold production increased from the prior year quarter due to higher leach placement. Costs applicable to sales per ounce increased from the prior year quarter due to higher employee profit sharing costs, partially offset by higher production and silver by-product credits.
2011 attributable gold production increased 22% from the prior year due to higher leach placement and additional mining equipment at Herradura and Soledad-Dipolos. Costs applicable to sales per ounce increased 25% due to higher waste mining costs and higher employee profit sharing costs, partially offset by higher production and silver by-product credits.
2012 attributable gold production in North America is expected to be approximately 1.9 to 2.0 million ounces at costs applicable to sales of approximately $570 to $630 per ounce. This is in-line with prior year levels as the Company expects to complete repairs on the ventilation shaft at Leeville in Nevada and production from the Noche Buena deposit at La Herradura is expected to commence in the first half of the year.
South America
-Attributable gold production was 172,000 ounces in the fourth quarter and 664,000 ounces in 2011. Costs applicable to sales were $511 and $560 per ounce in the fourth quarter and 2011, respectively.
Yanacocha
Fourth quarter attributable gold production was slightly higher than the prior year quarter. Costs applicable to sales per ounce decreased from the prior year quarter due lower operating costs and higher silver by-product credits.
2011 attributable gold production decreased 12% from the prior year due to mine sequencing resulting in lower leach placement at La Quinua, Yanacocha and Carachugo, partially offset by higher mill grade and recovery. Leach tons placed decreased 27% from 59 million tons to 43 million tons. Costs applicable to sales per ounce increased 30% from the prior year due to lower production, higher milling costs and lower silver by-product credits.
-Attributable gold production was 15,000 ounces in the fourth quarter and 64,000 ounces in 2011.
La Zanja
2012 attributable gold production in South America is expected to be approximately 700,000-750,000 ounces, primarily due to lower leach production at Yanacocha. Costs applicable to sales are expected to stabilize to approximately $480 to $530 per ounce, primarily due to mine sequencing and higher mill grade.
Asia Pacific
- Attributable gold production was 205,000 ounces in the fourth quarter and 741,000 ounces in 2011. Attributable copper production was 22 million pounds in the fourth quarter and 69 million pounds in 2011. Costs applicable to sales were $749 ($599 on net basis(4)) and $682 ($548 on a net basis(4)) per ounce and $1.84 and $2.03 per pound in the fourth quarter and 2011, respectively.
Boddington
Fourth quarter 2011 gold production was in-line with the prior year quarter, while copper production increased 47% due to higher throughput and grade. Costs applicable to sales per ounce increased 20% in the fourth quarter over the prior year due to higher mining and milling costs, and higher royalty costs. Costs applicable to sales per pound decreased 11% mainly due to higher production.
2011 attributable gold and copper production increased 2% and 19%, respectively, from the prior year due to higher mill throughput and higher copper grade, partially offset by lower recoveries and lower gold grade. Costs applicable to sales increased 16% per ounce and 9% per pound, respectively, due to higher mining and mill maintenance costs, higher royalty costs and a stronger Australian dollar, net of hedging gains, partially offset by higher production and higher silver by-product credits.
2012 attributable gold and copper production at Boddington is expected to be approximately 750,000-800,000 ounces and 70-80 million pounds, respectively, at costs applicable to sales of approximately $800 to $850 per ounce and $2.00 to $2.25 per pound on a co-product basis. 2012 production is expected to be in-line with 2011 levels, while higher operating costs are expected to result from higher mining and labor costs, the implementation of a carbon tax in Australia, as well as higher costs for contracted services and supplies.
- Attributable gold production was 16,000 ounces in the fourth quarter and 154,000 ounces in 2011. Attributable copper production was 25 million pounds in the fourth quarter and 137 million pounds in 2011. Costs applicable to sales were $754 and $476 per ounce and $1.50 and $1.11 per pound on a co-product basis in the fourth quarter and 2011, respectively.
Batu Hijau
Fourth quarter attributable gold and copper production decreased from the prior year quarter due to lower mill throughput, grade and recovery as a result of processing more stockpiled ore. Costs applicable to sales per ounce and per pound increased from the prior year quarter due to higher labor costs as well as substantially lower grade and recovery as a result of processing more stockpiled material.
2011 attributable copper and gold production decreased 48% and 57%, respectively, from the prior year due to lower throughput, grade and recovery as a result of processing more stockpiled material, compared to high grade Phase 5 ore in 2010 and mill down time from motor replacements during the second and third quarters of 2011. Waste tons mined increased 135% as Phase 6 waste removal continues as planned. The Company expects to process primarily stockpiled ore until Phase 6 ore becomes the primary mill feed in late 2013. Costs applicable to sales increased 61% per pound and 101% per ounce due to lower production, higher waste mining and higher labor costs.
2012 attributable gold production for Batu Hijau is expected to be approximately 45,000 to 55,000 ounces, at costs applicable to sales of between $800 and $850 per ounce, while attributable copper production is expected to be approximately 80 to 90 million pounds, at costs applicable to sales of between $1.80 and $2.20 per pound. As previously disclosed(5), Newmont continues to expect processing stockpiled ore until Phase 6 ore becomes the primary mill feed commencing in late 2013.
- Attributable gold production was 224,000 ounces in the fourth quarter and 1.0 million ounces in 2011. Costs applicable to sales were $807 and $664 per ounce in the fourth quarter and 2011, respectively.
Other Australia/New Zealand
Fourth quarter attributable gold production decreased from the prior year quarter due to lower throughput at Jundee and Tanami, and a lower ore grade at Waihi, partially offset by higher ore grade at Jundee and Kalgoorlie. Costs applicable to sales per ounce increased from the prior year quarter due to lower production and higher mining costs at Tanami and Waihi.
2011 attributable gold production decreased 4% from the prior year due to lower throughput at Tanami and lower grade at Waihi. Costs applicable to sales per ounce increased 22% due to lower production, higher mining and milling costs and a stronger Australian dollar, net of hedging gains.
2012 attributable gold production for other Australia/New Zealand is expected to be approximately 980,000 to 1.1 million ounces, primarily due to slightly lower production at KCGM and Jundee. Costs applicable to sales for other Australia/New Zealand are expected to increase to approximately $810 to $860 per ounce in 2012, primarily driven by a stronger forecasted Australian dollar, net of hedging gains, higher labor costs, and the implementation of a carbon tax in Australia.
Africa
- Attributable gold production was 88,000 and 566,000 ounces during the fourth quarter and 2011, respectively. Costs applicable to sales were $520 and $474 per ounce for the fourth quarter and 2011, respectively.
Ahafo
Fourth quarter attributable production decreased from the prior year quarter due to lower mill grade and an increase in in-process inventory in December. Costs applicable to sales per ounce increased from the prior year quarter due to higher mining and milling costs.
2011 attributable gold production increased 4% from the prior year due to higher throughput and recovery. Ore tons mined increased 28% from a full year of production at Amoma. Costs applicable to sales per ounce increased 5% due to higher labor, commodity and royalty costs, partially offset by higher production.
2012 attributable gold production for the Africa operations is expected to increase to approximately 570,000 to 600,000 ounces due to higher ore grade. Costs applicable to sales of approximately $500 to $550 per ounce are expected for 2012, primarily as a result of higher mining and milling costs.
Capital Update
Consolidated capital expenditures were $2.8 billion in 2011, up from $1.4 billion in 2010. Attributable capital expenditures were $2.3 billion in 2011, up from $1.2 billion in 2010. Approximately $1.3 billion was spent on major projects in 2011, such as Conga in Peru, Akyem in Ghana, Tanami shaft in Australia, with the balance largely attributed to sustaining capital. The Company currently plans to spend approximately $3.0 to $3.3 billion in attributable capital expenditures in 2012, or $4.0 to $4.3 billion on a consolidated basis. Approximately 60% of expected attributable 2012 capital expenditures are allocated to growth project initiatives, including further development of Akyem, the Tanami Shaft, and potentially Conga, with the remaining 40% expected to be spent on sustaining and maintenance capital.
Advanced Projects Update
Consolidated advanced projects, research and development expenditures were $373 million in 2011, up from $216 million in 2010. In 2011, the Company increased spending to accelerate internal growth opportunities across our portfolio, including Long Canyon, Vista Vein and the Phoenix copper leach in Nevada, the Conga and Chaquicocha projects in Peru, the Merian gold project in Suriname, the Elang project in Indonesia, and Subika expansion at Ahafo in Ghana. The Company currently plans to spend approximately $475 to $525 million in advanced projects in 2012 on a consolidated basis, or $430 to $480 on an attributable basis, focused primarily on Merian, Midas, Long Canyon, Vista Vein, Elang and the Ahafo mill expansion.
Supplemental Information
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Non-GAAP financial measures are intended to provide additional information only and do not have any standard meaning prescribed by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Reconciliation of Adjusted Net Income to GAAP Net Income
Management uses the non-GAAP financial measure Adjusted net income to evaluate the Company's operating performance, and for planning and forecasting future business operations. The Company believes the use of Adjusted net income allows investors and analysts to compare the results of the continuing operations of the Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries relating to the production and sale of minerals to similar operating results of other mining companies, by excluding exceptional or unusual items, income or loss from discontinued operations and the permanent impairment of assets, including marketable securities and goodwill. Management's determination of the components of Adjusted net income are evaluated periodically and based, in part, on a review of non-GAAP financial measures used by mining industry analysts.
Net income attributable to Newmont stockholders is reconciled to Adjusted net income as follows:
Costs Applicable to Sales per Ounce/Pound
Costs applicable to sales per ounce/pound are non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are calculated by dividing the costs applicable to sales of gold and copper by gold ounces or copper pounds sold, respectively. These measures are calculated on a consistent basis for the periods presented on both a consolidated and attributable to Newmont basis. Attributable costs applicable to sales are based on our economic interest in production from our mines. For operations where we hold less than a 100% economic share in the production, we exclude the share of gold or copper production attributable to the non-controlling interest. We include attributable costs applicable to sales per ounce/pound to provide management, investors and analysts with information with which to compare our performance to other gold producers. Costs applicable to sales per ounce/pound statistics are intended to provide additional information only and do not have any standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. The measures are not necessarily indicative of operating profit or cash flow from operations as determined under GAAP. Other companies may calculate these measures differently.
Net attributable costs applicable to sales per ounce measures the benefit of copper produced in conjunction with gold, as a credit against the cost of producing gold. A number of other gold producers present their costs net of the contribution from copper and other non-gold sales. We believe that including a measure of this basis provides management, investors and analysts with information with which to compare our performance to other gold producers, and to better assess the overall performance of our business. In addition, this measure provides information to enable investors and analysts to understand the importance of non-gold revenues to our cost structure.
Reconciliation of Co-Product Costs Applicable to Sales to By-Product Costs Applicable to Sales
Sales and Costs applicable to sales for Boddington are presented in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for both gold and copper due to the significant portion of copper production (approximately 15-20% of revenue based on the latest life-of-mine plan and metal price assumptions). The co-product method allocates costs applicable to sales to each metal based on specifically identifiable costs where applicable and on a relative proportion of sales values for other costs. Management also assesses the performance of the Boddington mine on a by-product basis due to the majority of sales being derived from gold and to determine contingent consideration payments to AngloGold. The by-product method deducts copper sales from costs applicable to sales as shown in the following table:
Conference Call Information
Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) announced it will report Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2011 results after the market closes on A conference call will be held on at ; it will also be carried on the Company's website.
Thursday, February 23, 2012.
Friday, February 24, 2012
10:00 a.m. Eastern Time (8:00 a.m. Mountain Time)
This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended which are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created by such sections and other applicable laws. Such forward-looking statements may include, without limitation: (i) estimates and expectations regarding the Company's strategy and plans; (ii) estimates of future mineral production and sales; (iii) estimates of future operating costs, costs applicable to sales and other costs; (iv) estimates of future capital expenditures and consolidated advanced projects, research and development expenditures; and (v) the Company's exploration pipeline and expectations regarding the development, growth and exploration potential of the Company's projects, including project start dates, ramp up, life, pipeline timelines (including commencement of mining, drilling and stage gate advancement and expansion opportunities) and expected project returns; (vi) potential ounces or tons of reserves, non-reserve mineralization and potential resources; (vii) dividend payments and increases; (viii) future liquidity, cash and balance sheet expectations; and (ix) other financial outlook for the Company's operations and projects. Estimates or expectations of future events or results are based upon certain assumptions, which may prove to be incorrect. Such assumptions, include, but are not limited to: (i) there being no significant change to current geotechnical, metallurgical, hydrological and other physical conditions; (ii) permitting, development, operations and expansion of the Company's projects being consistent with current expectations and mine plans; (iii) political, social and legal developments in any jurisdiction in which the Company operates being consistent with its current expectations; (iv) certain exchange rate assumptions for the Australian dollar to the U.S. dollar, as well as other exchange rates being approximately consistent with current levels; (v) certain price assumptions for gold, copper and oil; (vi) prices for key supplies being approximately consistent with current levels and such supplies otherwise being available on bases consistent with the Company's current expectations; and (vii) the accuracy of our current mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates and exploration information. Where the Company expresses or implies an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by the "forward-looking statements". Such risks include, but are not limited to: (i) gold and other metals price volatility; (ii) currency fluctuations; (iii) increased capital and operating costs and scarcity of competition for required labor and supplies; (iv) variances in ore grade or recovery rates from those assumed in mining plans; (v) political and operational risks; (vi) community relations, conflict resolution and outcome of projects or oppositions; and (vii) governmental regulation and judicial outcomes. For a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors, see the Company's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 24, 2012, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the Company's other SEC filings. The Company does not undertake any obligation to release publicly revisions to any "forward-looking statement," including, without limitation, outlook, to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this news release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. Investors should not assume that any lack of update to a previously issued "forward-looking statement" constitutes a reaffirmation of that statement. Continued reliance on "forward-looking statements" is at investors' own risk.
Cautionary Statement
CONTACT: Media, Omar Jabara, +1-303-837-5114, omar.jabara@newmont.com, or Diane Reberger, +1-303-967-9455, diane.reberger@newmont.com, or Investors, John Seaberg, +1-303-837-5743, john.seaberg@newmont.com, or Karli Anderson, +1-303-837-6049, karli.anderson@newmont.com

 
 
 
Newmont Increases Gold Reserves ~6% to Record 99 Million Ounces; Copper Reserves Also a Record at ~10 Billion Pounds
 
DENVER, February 23, 2012 
Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) (Newmont or the Company) today announced it increased attributable gold reserves by 5.3 million ounces, net of depletion, to 98.8 million ounces in 2011. Highlights include:
 
 
We are pleased to report a 6% increase in our gold reserves to a record 98.8 million ounces and a record 9.7 billion pounds of copper in 2011, highlighting the potential of our extensive land positions in each of our four operating regions, commented Richard OBrien, President and CEO.  Over the last 10 years, we have added an industry leading 85 million ounces of reserves through organic growth alone, more than offsetting the 75 million ounces of depleted reserves through production.
 
, up 10% and 24%, respectively, as exploration activity drove increases in gold reserves at Carlin, Phoenix, and Turquoise Ridge, and copper reserves at Phoenix.
North America was the largest contributor to higher gold and copper reserves in 2011
 
Reserve Sensitivity to Gold Price
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attributable gold Measured and Indicated non-reserve mineralization (NRM)
1
for 2011 was 1.4 billion tons at an average grade of 0.019 ounces per ton, up from 1.3 billion tons at an average grade of 0.019 ounces per ton for 2010. In addition, attributable gold Inferred NRM was 650 million tons at an average grade of 0.024 ounces per ton. Attributable copper Measured and Indicated NRM for 2011 was 1.0 billion tons at an average grade of 0.14%, up from 849 million tons at a grade of 0.15% from 2010. In addition, attributable copper Inferred NRM was 410 million tons at an average grade of 0.15%. Gold and copper NRM were calculated using prices of $1,400 per ounce and $3.50 per pound, respectively. Total gold and copper NRM increased 12% and 9%, respectively, over 2010 on a contained metal basis. Attributable silver Measured and Indicated NRM for 2011 was 690 million tons at an average grade of 0.92 ounces per ton, with additional inferred NRM of 520 million tons at an average grade of 0.10 ounces per ton.
 
Exploration:  2011 Highlights and 2012 Planned Activity
 
Newmonts 2011 exploration program produced strong results for a fourth consecutive year from more than 125 drill rigs and approximately 1.3 million meters of drilling.  Drill programs focused on the entire resource pipeline and led to success in early-stage exploration while converting more than enough reserves to replace depletion. With more than 150 projects in 2011 and 175 projects in 2012, our exploration programs are gaining momentum and are designed to fully support our strategic growth plan not only to 2017, but also for years beyond.
 
Our North American region converted the largest gold reserve (6.2 million ounces) and NRM (5.5 million ounces) led by open pit expansions at Gold Quarry, Phoenix, and underground expansion at Turf-Leeville.  We continue to expect strong exploration results from the North America region again in 2012 as we expect to declare the first NRM ounces at our newly acquired Long Canyon asset. Early stage exploration yielded very encouraging results at Long Canyon, Leeville, Carlin Mine area, Mike, Phoenix and Fiber Line, and we will further advance these opportunities in 2012. Outside Nevada in 2011 we have further built our land position and advanced our target generation programs in Mexico, Alaska and BC/Yukon that we expect to continue this effort as well as to complete some scout drilling in 2012.
 
Our South America region converted 0.25 million ounces of gold reserves and 0.97 million ounces of gold NRM primarily from the Conga region.  A number of exploration targets have been generated at the Yanacocha district and are planned for drilling in 2012. A number of targets have also been generated in the Conga region that await development outcomes.  Extensive infill drilling at the Merian project in Suriname is targeted to add reserves in 2012 while follow-up drill programs at the nearby Sabajo project are accelerating with promising results. 
 
 
 
1
  For detailed information on the Companys year-end attributable Proven and Probable Reserves and Measured, Indicated and Inferred NRM, please refer to the Supplemental Information below and the cautionary statement at the end of this release.
  
 
Jundee and Waihi drill programs added new underground mine life from surface and underground drill programs.  Boddington successes were seen in early-stage work expected to be reflected in potentially new NRM in the near future.  Each of these sites has significant exploration upside that we expect to aggressively test in 2012.  Outside Australia, drill programs will accelerate at the Elang project in Indonesia and we will continue the target generation and scout-drilling in New Zealand, Papua New Guinea and Solomon Islands.
Our Australia-Pacific region converted 2.3 million ounces of gold reserves and 1.6 million ounces of gold NRM with the largest contributions coming from our Callie underground mine in the Tanami and at KCGM.
 
Our Africa region converted 2.8 million ounces of gold reserve and 2.0 million ounces of gold NRM primarily from Ahafo open pit layback expansions and from the Subika underground.  Drill programs successfully expanded the wingspan of early-stage Subika underground mineralization and we began drilling extensions of the Apensu open pit.  Early-stage exploration around Ahafo North demonstrated potential for additional open pit and underground mineralization near the existing reserve.  Drill programs at Akyem suggest potential for underground mineralization that will be further explored in 2012.  Future reserve and NRM growth looks promising and will be addressed by more than doubling the Ghanaian exploration budget in 2012.  Outside Ghana we have a potential new discovery in Guinea and have scout-drilled a number of targets in Burkina Faso with encouraging results that will be followed up in 2012.
 
Newmonts 2012 attributable exploration budget increased 9% over the prior year to $369 million with the largest portion assigned to North America (~$138 million).  Budgets for 2012 in Australia-Pacific (~$87 million), Africa (~$58 million) and South America (~$54 million) have seen a significant increase relative to 2011 due to growth-related opportunities.  Approximately $32 million is allocated to other strategic programs. Of the total attributable exploration budget, approximately two-thirds is expected to be directed towards brownfields exploration activity, with the balance of approximately one-third to be spent on greenfields programs. 
 
Exploration Expenditure ($ Million)
 
 
 
 
  
Proven and probable reserves are based on extensive drilling, sampling, mine modeling and metallurgical testing from which we determined economic feasibility. Metal price assumptions follow SEC guidance not to exceed a three year trailing average. The price sensitivity of reserves depends upon several factors including grade, metallurgical recovery, operating cost, waste-to-ore ratio and ore type. Metallurgical recovery rates vary depending on the metallurgical properties of each deposit and the production process used. The reserve tables included in this release list the average metallurgical recovery rate for each deposit, which takes into account the relevant processing methods. The cut-off grade, or lowest grade of mineralized material considered economic to process, varies with material type, price, metallurgical recoveries, operating costs and co- or by-product credits. The proven and probable reserve figures presented herein are estimates based on information available at the time of calculation. No assurance can be given that the indicated levels of recovery of gold and copper will be realized. Ounces of gold or pounds of copper included in the proven and probable reserves are calculated without regard to any losses during metallurgical treatment. Reserve estimates may require revision based on actual production. Market fluctuations in the price of gold and copper, as well as increased production costs or reduced metallurgical recovery rates, could render certain proven and probable reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomic to exploit and might result in a reduction of reserves.
 
We publish reserves annually, and will recalculate reserves at December 31, 2012, taking into account metal prices, changes, if any, in future production and capital costs, divestments and depletion as well as any acquisitions and additions during 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
To view more detailed financial disclosure, including regional mine statistics, Results of Consolidated Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources, Managements Discussion & Analysis, relevant Risk Factors, and a complete outline of the 2011 Operating and Financial guidance by region, please see the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 23, 2012, available at www.newmont.com.
 
Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) announced it will report Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2011 results after the market closes on A conference call will be held on at ; it will also be carried on the Companys website.
Thursday, February 23, 2012.
Friday,
February 24
10:00 a.m. Eastern Time (8:00 a.m. Mountain Time)
 
 
: This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended which are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created by such sections and other applicable laws.  Such forward-looking statements may include, without limitation: (i) estimates of future mineral production and sales; (ii) estimates of future costs applicable to sales; (iii) estimates of future capital expenditures and consolidated advanced projects, research and development expenditures; and (iv) expectations regarding the development, growth and exploration potential of the Companys projects. Estimates or expectations of future events or results are based upon certain assumptions, which may prove to be incorrect.  Such assumptions, include, but are not limited to: (i) there being no significant change to current geotechnical, metallurgical, hydrological and other physical conditions; (ii) permitting, development, operations and expansion of the Companys projects being consistent with current expectations and mine plans; (iii) political, social and legal developments in any jurisdiction in which the Company operates being consistent with its current expectations; (iv) certain exchange rate assumptions for the Australian dollar to the U.S. dollar, as well as other the exchange rates being approximately consistent with current levels; (v) certain price assumptions for gold, copper and oil; (vi) prices for key supplies being approximately consistent with current levels; and (vii) the accuracy of our current mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates. Where the Company expresses or implies an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis.  However, such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by the forward-looking statements.  Such risks include, but are not limited to, gold and other metals price volatility, currency fluctuations, increased production costs and variances in ore grade or recovery rates from those assumed in mining plans, political and operational risks in the countries in which we operate, and governmental regulation and judicial outcomes.  For a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors, see the Companys 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 24, 2012, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the Companys other SEC filings.  The Company does not undertake any obligation to release publicly revisions to any forward-looking statement, including, without limitation, outlook, to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this news release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.  Investors should not assume that any lack of update to a previously issued forward-looking statement constitutes a reaffirmation of that statement. Continued reliance on forward-looking statements is at investors' own risk.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
 
: Ian Douglas, Newmonts Group Executive of Reserves, is the qualified person responsible for the preparation of the Reserve and NRM estimates in this presentation. The Reserves disclosed in this presentation have been prepared in compliance with Industry Guide 7 published by the SEC. As used in this news release, the term Reserve means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term economically, as used in this definition, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated in a full feasibility study to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions. The term legally, as used in this definition, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, Newmont must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at a particular deposit will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a timeframe consistent with Newmonts current mine plans. Reserves in this news release may be aggregated from the Proven and Probable classes. As used in this news release, the term non-reserve mineralization or NRM refers to Measured, Indicated and/or Inferred materials, which are exclusive of reserves. Newmont has determined that such NRM would be substantively the same as those prepared using the Guidelines established by the Society of Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration and defined as Resources. Estimates of NRM are subject to further exploration and development, are subject to additional risks, and no assurance can be given that they will eventually convert to future Mineral Reserves of the company. In addition, our current or future reserves and exploration and development projects may not result in new mineral producing operations. Even if significant mineralization is discovered and converted to reserves, it will likely take many years from the initial phases of exploration to development and ultimately to production, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Additionally, references to attributable ounces, attributable pounds and attributable mineralization in this news release are intended to mean that portion of gold or copper produced, sold or included in Proven and Probable Reserves or NRM that is attributable to our ownership or economic interest.
Cautionary Statement regarding Reserves and NRM
 
 


