FILE:NEM/NEM-8K-20120117105138.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 17, 2012, Newmont Mining Corporation, a Delaware corporation, issued a news release reporting its preliminary 2011 operating highlights and 2012 outlook. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: January 17, 2012
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Newmont Provides Preliminary 2011 Operating Highlights and 2012 Outlook
DENVER, January 17, 2012  Newmont Mining Corporation (NYSE: NEM) ("Newmont" or the "Company") announced preliminary attributable gold and copper production and costs applicable to sales in-line with its 2011 Outlook.
Full Year and Fourth Quarter Preliminary 2011 Operating Highlights:
 
 
 
 
2011 Preliminary Results:
 
 
"I am pleased to report 2011 production, operating costs and capital expenditure performance in line with our original guidance for the year," said Richard O'Brien, President and CEO. "Combined with higher metal prices, our strong financial performance allowed us to return significant capital to shareholders in the form of a gold price-linked dividend," added Mr. O'Brien.
2012 Outlook
The Company announced that it anticipates 2012 attributable gold and copper production of approximately 5.0 to 5.2 million ounces and 150 to 170 million pounds, respectively, at CAS of approximately $625 to $675 per ounce and $1.80 to $2.20 per pound, respectively. The Company also announced that it currently expects to invest approximately $3.0 to $3.3 billion in attributable capital expenditures, of which approximately 60% is allocated to growth project initiatives, including further development of the Akyem project in Ghana and potentially the Conga project in Peru, with the remaining 40% expected to be spent on sustaining and maintenance capital.
 
 
 
2012 Financial Outlook and Key Assumptions
 
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding 2011 Preliminary Operating Highlights
We caution you that, whether or not expressly stated, all measures of the Company's fourth quarter and 2011 financial results and condition contained in this news release, including production, sales, average realized price, costs applicable to sales and capital expenditures, are preliminary and reflect our expected 2011 results as of the date of this news release. Actual reported fourth quarter and 2011 results are subject to management's final review as well as audit by the Company's independent registered accounting firm and may vary significantly from those expectations because of a number of factors, including, without limitation, additional or revised information and changes in accounting standards or policies or in how those standards are applied. For a discussion of factors that may adversely affect our financial results and condition, see the Company's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 24, 2011, with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), as well as the Company's other SEC filings, available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The Company will provide additional discussion and analysis and other important information about its fourth quarter and 2011 financial results and condition when it reports actual results on February 24, 2012.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements, Including 2012 Outlook:
This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created by such sections and other applicable laws. Such forward-looking statements may include, without limitation: (i) estimates of future mineral production and sales; (ii) estimates of future costs applicable to sales; (iii) estimates of future consolidated and attributable capital expenditures and CAS; and (iv) expectations regarding the development, growth and exploration potential of the Company's projects, including, without limitation, Akyem, Tanami, Long Canyon, Phoenix Copper Leach, and Conga. Estimates or expectations of future events or results are based upon certain assumptions, which may prove to be incorrect. Such assumptions, include, but are not limited to: (i) there being no significant change to current geotechnical, metallurgical, hydrological and other physical conditions; (ii) permitting, development, operations and expansion of the Company's projects being consistent with current expectations and mine plans; (iii) political developments in any jurisdiction in which the Company operates being consistent with its current expectations; (iv) certain exchange rate assumptions for the Australian dollar to the U.S. dollar, as well as other the exchange rates being approximately consistent with current levels; (v) certain price assumptions for gold, copper and oil; (vi) prices for key supplies being approximately consistent with current levels; and (vii) the accuracy of our current mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates.
 
Where the Company expresses or implies an expectation or belief as to future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by the "forward-looking statements". Such risks include, but are not limited to, gold and other metals price volatility, currency fluctuations, increased production costs and variances in ore grade or recovery rates from those assumed in mining plans, political and operational risks, community relations, conflict resolution and outcome of projects or oppositions and governmental regulation and judicial outcomes. For a more detailed discussion of such risks and other factors, see the Company's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 24, 2011, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the Company's other SEC filings. The Company does not undertake any obligation to release publicly revisions to any "forward-looking statement," including, without limitation, outlook, to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this news release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. Investors should not assume that any lack of update to a previously issued "forward-looking statement" constitutes a reaffirmation of that statement. Continued reliance on "forward-looking statements" is at investors' own risk.
 


