FILE:GILD/GILD-8K-20120117165924.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
As previously disclosed, on November 21, 2011, Pharmasset, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Pharmasset") entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Gilead Sciences, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Gilead") and Royal Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Gilead ("Merger Sub") (the rights of which thereunder were assigned to Royal Merger Sub II Inc., a Delaware corporation and indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Gilead ("Merger Sub II"), on January 12, 2012). In accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement, Gilead, Merger Sub and Merger Sub II commenced a tender offer to purchase all outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.001 ("Shares") of Pharmasset, at a price of $137 per Share, net to the seller in cash (less any required withholding taxes and without interest) (the "Offer Price"), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Offer to Purchase, dated December 6, 2011 (together with any amendments or supplements thereto, the "Offer to Purchase") and the related Letter of Transmittal (together with any amendments or supplements thereto, the "Letter of Transmittal" and, together with the Offer to Purchase, the "Offer"). The Shares were purchased by Merger Sub II ("Purchaser"), at the election of Gilead pursuant to the terms of the Offer.
On January 12, 2012, Gilead announced the completion of the Offer. The Offer expired at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on January 12, 2012, as scheduled and was not extended. According to BNY Mellon, the Depositary for the Offer, approximately 72,041,926 Shares were validly tendered and not properly withdrawn, which represented approximately 95% of the outstanding Shares (including approximately 5,529,532 Shares tendered pursuant to notices of guaranteed delivery, which represented approximately 7% of the outstanding Shares). Purchaser has accepted for payment all Shares that were validly tendered and not withdrawn, and payment for such Shares has been made, in accordance with the terms of the Offer.
On January 17, 2012, Purchaser merged with and into Pharmasset, with Pharmasset continuing as the surviving corporation (the "Merger"). In order to accomplish the Merger as a "short-form" merger, Purchaser exercised its "top-up" option pursuant to the Merger Agreement, which permitted Purchaser to purchase additional Shares directly from Pharmasset for $137 per Share (the same purchase price pain in the Offer). All outstanding Shares, other than (i) Shares owned by Gilead, Purchaser or any of their direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, (ii) Shares owned by Pharmasset or its subsidiary and (iii) Shares held by Pharmasset stockholders who properly demanded appraisal for their Shares under Delaware law, were canceled and converted into the right to receive cash equal to the $137 price per Share.
Shares ceased trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market at the close of market on January 17, 2012.
The description of the Merger Agreement set forth above does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Merger Agreement, a copy of which was filed by Gilead with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Gilead on November 25, 2011, and is incorporated herein by reference.
A copy of the press release issued by Gilead on January 17, 2012, announcing the consummation of the Merger is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The financial statements of Pharmasset required by this item will be filed by amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K no later than 71 calendar days after the date this Current Report on Form 8-K is required to be filed.
 
The pro forma financial information required by this item will be filed by amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K no later than 71 calendar days after the date this Current Report on Form 8-K is required to be filed.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: January 17, 2012
EXHIBIT LIST
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For Immediate Release
Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Nasdaq: GILD) today announced the completion of the previously announced transaction for Royal Merger Sub II Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Gilead ("Merger Sub II"), to acquire Pharmasset, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRUS) for $137 per share in cash, or approximately $11.2 billion in the aggregate.
Foster City, California, January 17, 2012 
On November 21, 2011, Gilead and Pharmasset announced that Pharmasset, Gilead and Royal Merger Sub Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Gilead ("Merger Sub"), had signed a definitive merger agreement pursuant to which a tender offer would be made. Pursuant to the merger agreement, Gilead, Merger Sub and Merger Sub II commenced a tender offer on December 6, 2011 to acquire all outstanding shares of Pharmasset at a price of $137 per share, net to the seller in cash (less any required withholding taxes and without interest). On January 12, 2012, Gilead announced that it had successfully completed the tender offer for all outstanding shares of common stock of Pharmasset and had accepted for payment all shares validly tendered and not withdrawn as of the expiration time of the tender offer and would promptly pay for such shares, which shares represented approximately 95% of Pharmasset's outstanding shares (including 5,529,352 shares delivered through Notices of Guaranteed Delivery, representing approximately 7% of the shares outstanding). The rights of Merger Sub under the merger agreement were assigned to Merger Sub II on January 12, 2012. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, Merger Sub II merged with and into Pharmasset on January 17, 2012. In order to accomplish the merger as a "short-form" merger, Merger Sub II exercised its "top-up" option pursuant to the merger agreement, which permitted Merger Sub II to purchase additional shares of common stock of Pharmasset directly from Pharmasset for $137 per share (the same purchase price paid in the offer). All outstanding shares of common stock of Pharmasset, other than (i) shares owned by Gilead, Merger Sub II or any of their direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, (ii) shares owned by Pharmasset or its subsidiary and (iii) shares held by Pharmasset stockholders who properly demand appraisal for their shares under Delaware law, were canceled and converted into the right to receive cash equal to the $137 price per share.
As a result of the completion of the merger, Pharmasset has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Gilead and the common stock of Pharmasset will no longer be listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, which is expected to take effect as of the close of market on January 17, 2012.
Barclays Capital, Inc. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch acted as financial advisors to Gilead. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP acted as Gilead's legal advisors.
Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC acted as financial advisors to Pharmasset. Sullivan & Cromwell LLP acted as Pharmasset's legal advisors.
About Pharmasset
Pharmasset is a clinical-stage pharmaceutical company committed to discovering, developing and commercializing novel drugs to treat viral infections. Pharmasset's primary focus is the development of oral therapeutics for the treatment of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Pharmasset's research and development efforts are focused on nucleoside/tide analogs, a class of compounds which act as alternative substrates for the viral polymerase, thus inhibiting viral replication.
About Gilead Sciences
Gilead Sciences is a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of unmet medical need. Gilead's mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from life-threatening diseases worldwide. Headquartered in Foster City, California, Gilead has operations in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectation of Gilead. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding business combination and similar transactions, prospective performance and opportunities and the outlook for the companies' businesses, including, without limitation, the ability of Gilead to advance Pharmasset's product pipeline or develop an all-oral antiviral regimen for HCV, performance and opportunities and regulatory approvals, the anticipated timing of data from clinical data; the possibility of unfavorable results of the companies' clinical trials; and any assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of risks and uncertainties. Risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ from expectations contemplated by forward-looking statements include: the effects of the transaction on relationships with employees, customers, other business partners or governmental entities; other business effects, including the effects of industry, economic or political conditions outside of the companies' control; transaction costs; actual or contingent liabilities; and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Gilead's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to Gilead, and Gilead assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.
 


