FILE:GILD/GILD-8K-20120514152150.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 5  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
 
The 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the Annual Meeting) of Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead) was held on May 10, 2012 in Millbrae, California. Of the 758,070,530 shares of Gilead's common stock entitled to vote at the meeting, 641,235,008 shares were represented at the meeting in person or by proxy, constituting a quorum. The voting results are presented below.
Gilead's stockholders elected 12 directors to serve for the ensuing year and until their successors are elected and qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation or removal. The votes regarding the election of directors were as follows:
 
Gilead's stockholders ratified the selection of Ernst & Young LLP by the Audit Committee of Gilead's Board of Directors as its independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012. The proposal received the following votes:
 
Gilead's stockholders approved the advisory resolution approving the compensation of Gilead's named executive officers as presented in its 2012 proxy statement related to the Annual Meeting. The proposal received the following votes:
 
Gilead's stockholders approved the stockholder proposal requesting that Gilead's Board of Directors take steps to permit stockholder action by written consent. The proposal received the following votes:
 
Gilead's stockholders approved the stockholder proposal requesting that Gilead's Board of Directors take steps to redeem Gilead's poison pill unless the plan is subject to a stockholder vote. The proposal received the following votes:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: May 14, 2012


