FILE:ESRX/ESRX-8K-20120413142654.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 2, 2012, Express Scripts Holding Company (the "Company") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K (the "Initial Filing") with the Securities and Exchange Commission to report the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of July 20, 2011, as amended on November 7, 2011 (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among the Company, Express Scripts, Inc. ("Express Scripts"), Medco Health Solutions, Inc. ("Medco"), Aristotle Merger Sub, Inc. and Plato Merger Sub, Inc., pursuant to which each of Express Scripts and Medco became wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company. Medco is an acquiree for purposes of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement.
This Current Report on Form 8-K/A amends and supplements Item 9.01 of the Initial Filing to present certain financial statements of Medco and to present certain unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements of the Company in connection with the acquisition of Medco.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
The audited consolidated balance sheets of Medco as of December 31, 2011 and December 25, 2010 and the related audited consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009, together with the notes thereto and the auditors' report thereon, are filed as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011 are filed as Exhibit 99.3 hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 13, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-180507) of Express Scripts Holding Company of our report dated February 21, 2012 relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedule and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Medco Health Solutions, Inc. which is incorporated by reference in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A of Express Scripts Holding Company dated April 13, 2012.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Florham Park, NJ
April 13, 2012

Exhibit 99.3
On July 20, 2011, Express Scripts, Inc. ("Express Scripts") entered into a definitive merger agreement (the "Merger Agreement") with Medco Health Solutions, Inc. ("Medco"), which was amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto on November 7, 2011, providing for the combination of Express Scripts and Medco under a new holding company named Aristotle Holding, Inc. On April 2, 2012, we consummated the transactions contemplated under the Merger Agreement (the "Mergers"), and Aristotle Holding, Inc. was renamed Express Scripts Holding Company (which we refer to as "New Express Scripts").
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presented below is derived from the historical financial statements of Express Scripts and Medco, adjusted to give effect to the Mergers and the financing transactions entered into in order to fund the Mergers (the "Related Financing Transactions"). The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information should be read in conjunction with the historical audited financial statements and accompanying notes of Express Scripts and Medco for the year ended December 31, 2011.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 gives effect to the Mergers and the Related Financing Transactions as if they had occurred on the first day of that period. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet gives effect to the Mergers and the Related Financing Transactions as if they had occurred on December 31, 2011.
The pro forma adjustments are preliminary and have been made solely for informational purposes. The actual results reported by the combined company in periods following the Mergers may differ significantly from that reflected in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements for a number of reasons, including but not limited to cost savings from operating efficiencies, synergies and the impact of the incremental costs incurred in integrating the two companies. As a result, the pro forma condensed combined information is not intended to represent and does not purport to be indicative of what the combined company's financial condition or results of operations would have been had the Mergers and the Related Financing Transactions been completed on the applicable dates of this pro forma condensed combined financial information. In addition, the pro forma condensed combined financial information does not purport to project the future financial condition and results of operations of the combined company.
The pro forma condensed combined financial statements are based on various assumptions, including assumptions relating to the consideration paid and the allocation thereof to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed from Medco based on preliminary estimates of fair value. The pro forma assumptions and adjustments are described in the accompanying notes presented on the following pages. Pro forma adjustments are those that are directly attributable to the transaction, are factually supportable and, with respect to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations, are expected to have a continuing impact on the consolidated results. The final purchase price and the allocation thereof may differ from that reflected in the pro forma condensed combined financial statements after final valuation procedures are performed and estimates are refined.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not reflect any cost savings from operating efficiencies, synergies or other restructurings that could result from the Mergers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Basis of Presentation
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information was prepared using the acquisition method of accounting and was based on the historical audited financial statements of Express Scripts and Medco as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011. Express Scripts' historical information for the year ended December 31, 2011 represents a calendar year beginning on January 1, 2011, while Medco's historical financial information for 2011 represents a fiscal year of 53 weeks beginning on December 26, 2010. Certain reclassifications have been made to the historical financial statements of Medco to conform to Express Scripts' presentation, including the presentation of claims and rebates payable as a separate line item from accounts payable and condensing Medco's receivable balances into one line item. Additionally, Medco's product revenues and service revenues have been combined into a single line item and amortization of intangibles has been included in selling, general and administrative expenses to conform to Express Scripts' presentation. Finally, the following adjustments have been made to revenues, cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative expense:
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 gives effect to the Mergers and the Related Financing Transactions as if they had occurred on the first day of that period. The unaudited condensed combined balance sheet as of December 31, 2011 gives effect to the Mergers and the Related Financing Transactions as if they had occurred on December 31, 2011.
The acquisition method of accounting is based on authoritative guidance for business combinations and uses the fair value concepts defined in authoritative guidance. We prepared the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information using the acquisition method of accounting under these existing U.S. GAAP standards.
The authoritative guidance for business combinations requires, among other things, that assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date if fair value can reasonably be estimated. If the fair value of an asset or liability that arises from a contingency cannot be determined, the asset or liability is recognized if it is probable that an asset existed or a liability has been incurred at the acquisition date and the amount of such asset or liability can be reasonably determined. In addition, the guidance establishes that the consideration transferred be measured at the closing date of the acquisition at the then-current market price. As the purchase price includes replacement stock options and restricted stock units, this may result in an equity component that is different from the amount assumed in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements as measurement of the fair value of each stock option is finalized.
The authoritative guidance for fair value defines the term "fair value," sets forth the valuation requirements for any asset or liability measured at fair value, expands related disclosure requirements and specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on the nature of inputs used to develop the fair value measures. Fair value is defined in the guidance as "the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date." This is an exit price concept for the valuation of the asset or liability. In addition, market participants are assumed to be buyers and sellers in the principal (or the most advantageous) market for the asset or liability. Fair value measurements for an asset assume the highest and best use by these market participants. As a result of these standards, we may be required to record assets that we do not intend to use or sell (defensive assets) and/or to value assets at fair value measurements that do not reflect our intended use of those assets. Many of these fair value measurements can be highly subjective and it is also possible that other professionals, applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range of alternative estimated amounts.
The pro forma adjustments described below have been developed based on assumptions and estimates, including assumptions relating to the consideration paid and the allocation thereof to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed from Medco based on preliminary estimates of fair value. The final purchase price and the allocation thereof may differ from that reflected in the pro forma condensed combined financial statements after final valuation procedures are performed and amounts are finalized.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are provided for illustrative purposes only and do not purport to represent what the actual consolidated results of operations or the consolidated financial position of New Express Scripts would have been had the Mergers and the Related Financing Transactions occurred on the dates assumed, nor are they necessarily indicative of future consolidated results of operations or financial position.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not reflect any cost savings from operating efficiencies, synergies or other restructurings that could result from the Mergers.
Express Scripts has been determined to be the acquirer under the acquisition method of accounting based on various considerations. Upon closing of the Mergers, Express Scripts stockholders own approximately 59% of the combined company and Medco stockholders own approximately 41%. Additionally, New Express Scripts transferred cash and issued common stock as the merger consideration to Medco stockholders. Further, the Board of Directors and senior management of New Express Scripts are comprised primarily of Express Scripts board members and senior management, respectively.
New Express Scripts performed a preliminary review of Medco's accounting policies, based primarily on publicly available information, to determine whether any adjustments were necessary to ensure comparability in the pro forma condensed combined financial statements. At this time, New Express Scripts is not aware of any unadjusted differences that would have a material impact on the pro forma condensed combined financial statements. As more information becomes available, New Express Scripts will perform a more detailed review of Medco's accounting policies. As a result of that review, differences may be identified between the accounting policies of the two companies that, when conformed, could have a material impact on the combined financial statements.
 
Note 2  Preliminary Purchase Price
The total consideration for the transaction is $30.1 billion, composed of $74.56 per share in cash and New Express Scripts' stock (valued based on the opening price of Express Scripts stock on April 2, 2012, the closing date), including $28.80 in cash and 0.81 shares for each Medco share outstanding. The purchase price for the business combination is estimated as follows:
 
 
Medco's stock incentive plan includes a provision for the acceleration of vesting of awards granted under the Medco stock incentive plan in certain circumstances involving termination in connection with a change in control. Adjustments have been made to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as a result of this provision based on actual awards subject to accelerated vesting for former Medco employees terminated upon consummation of the Mergers. No adjustments have been made to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations, as this cost does not have an ongoing impact to the financial statements.
Note 3  Preliminary Purchase Price Allocation
The combined company will allocate the purchase price paid by Express Scripts to the fair value of the Medco assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The pro forma purchase price allocation below has been developed based on preliminary estimates of fair value using the historical financial statements of Medco as of December 31, 2011. In addition, the allocation of the purchase price to acquired intangible assets is based on preliminary fair value estimates and is subject to final management analysis, with the assistance of third party valuation advisors. Once New Express Scripts and its third party valuation advisors complete this analysis, additional insight will be gained that could impact: (i) the estimated total value assigned to intangible assets, (ii) the estimated allocation of value between finite-lived and indefinite-lived intangible assets and/or (iii) the estimated weighted-average useful life of each category of intangible assets. The estimated intangible asset values and their useful lives could be impacted by a variety of factors.
 
The estimated intangible assets are comprised of customer contracts with an estimated useful life of 10 years and trade names with an estimated useful life of 5 years, which is consistent with the estimated benefit period. Since New Express Scripts has limited information at this time to value all of the intangible assets, the estimated fair values were based primarily on current estimates of Medco's expected future cash flows for all customer contracts and trade names. New Express Scripts expects that the estimated value assigned to Medco's customer contracts is likely to change as New Express Scripts analyzes the specifics of Medco's customer contracts and as life and renewal assumptions are refined. Additional intangible asset classes may be identified as the valuation process continues, however such items are currently not expected to be material to the overall purchase price allocation. A 10% change in the amount allocated to identifiable intangible assets would increase or decrease annual amortization expense by $140.0 million. The residual amount of the purchase price after preliminary allocation to identifiable intangibles has been allocated to goodwill. The actual amounts recorded when the final valuation is complete may differ materially from the pro forma amounts presented below (in millions):
 
Note 4  Unaudited Pro Forma Adjustments
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet
(A) Sources and Uses
 
 
 
On August 5, 2011, Express Scripts entered into a credit agreement with Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch, as administrative agent, Citibank, N.A., as syndication agent, and the other lenders and agents named within the agreement. The credit agreement provided for a one-year unsecured $14.0 billion bridge term loan facility (the "Bridge Facility") to be used to pay a portion of the cash consideration paid in the Mergers and to pay related fees and expenses in the event that more favorable financing arrangements were unavailable. The Bridge Facility was terminated upon consummation of the Mergers and no amounts were drawn thereunder.
In connection with the Mergers, on August 29, 2011, Express Scripts entered into a $5.5 billion permanent facility consisting of a five-year $4.0 billion term loan facility (the "Term Loan Facility") and a five-year $1.5 billion revolving loan facility (the "Revolving Loan Facility"). Upon consummation of the Mergers, New Express Scripts assumed the role, rights and obligations of Express Scripts and became the borrower under the credit agreement in respect of the Term Loan Facility and the Revolving Loan Facility. The Term Loan Facility was used to pay a portion of the cash consideration in accordance with the Merger Agreement, to repay any existing indebtedness that became due or otherwise defaulted upon consummation of the Mergers and to pay related fees and expenses. The Revolving Loan Facility will be available for working capital needs and general corporate purposes, and was also used to fund $0.4 billion of the cash consideration paid to Medco shareholders in accordance with the Merger Agreement. Upon funding of the Term Loan Facility, the $1.5 billion Revolving Loan Facility replaced Express Scripts' previous $750 million revolving credit facility.
In November 2011 and February 2012, New Express Scripts issued $4.1 billion and $3.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes (the "November 2011 New Express Scripts Senior Notes" and the "February 2012 New Express Scripts Senior Notes," respectively, and together, the "New Express Scripts Senior Notes"), respectively, the net proceeds of which were used to pay a portion of the cash consideration in accordance with the Merger Agreement, to settle existing Medco indebtedness that was repaid in connection with the Mergers and to pay related fees and expenses.
(B) Debt
Upon closing of the Mergers, Express Scripts settled Medco's $2.0 billion of current debt outstanding under its unsecured credit agreements. The adjustment to long-term debt is comprised of the following items (in millions):
 
The fair values of Medco's senior notes were estimated based on observable relevant market information.
Additionally, deferred financing fees of $3.6 million and $10.5 million relating to pre-Merger Medco debt have been eliminated from Prepaid expenses and other current assets and Other assets, respectively, in connection with the adjustment of Medco's debt to fair value.
(C) Property and equipment, net
Based on the preliminary fair value assessment, the carrying value of Medco's property and equipment at December 31, 2011 approximates fair value. As such, the carrying value of Medco's property and equipment was used in the preliminary purchase price allocation, and no adjustments were made to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet. Adjustments may be required when additional information is obtained and a more detailed review is performed over the fair value of property and equipment. The actual amounts recorded when valuation procedures are completed may differ materially from the current book value of property and equipment.
(D) Goodwill and other intangible assets
The net adjustment to goodwill includes the elimination of Medco pre-Merger goodwill balances and is calculated as follows (in millions):
 
 
The net adjustment to other intangible assets, net, is calculated as follows (in millions):
 
 
See Note 3 for the estimated purchase price allocation. The final valuation could differ significantly from the current estimate. The pro forma purchase price allocation is preliminary as final valuation procedures have not yet been performed. The pro forma presentation assumes that the historical values of Medco's tangible assets and liabilities approximate fair value. Additionally, the allocation of the purchase price to acquired intangible assets is preliminary and subject to the final outcome of management's analysis to be conducted, with the assistance of valuation advisors. The residual amount of the purchase price has been allocated to goodwill. The actual amounts recorded when the valuation is finalized may differ materially from the pro forma amounts presented herein.
(E) Deferred taxes
The adjustment reflects an increase of $3,622.4 million in deferred tax liabilities associated with the recording of new identifiable intangible assets for the combined company. This amount was calculated using a tax rate of 37.92%, which represents Express Scripts' and Medco's estimated blended rate for the year ended December 31, 2011, which approximates the relevant statutory rate. This was offset by an additional adjustment of $298.1 million associated with the portion of replacement stock options and restricted stock units allocated to the purchase price. The actual amounts recorded for deferred taxes may differ materially from the pro forma amounts presented herein.
(F) Equity
The historical stockholders' equity of Medco was eliminated upon the completion of the Mergers. The total stockholders' equity of the combined company was increased over the pre-Merger Express Scripts amounts by the value of the New Express Scripts common stock issued in connection with the purchase price. New Express Scripts will be issuing approximately $18.8 billion of stock as part of the purchase price consideration. The calculation below estimates the number of shares issued to be 318.0 million, the share price to be $56.49 (Express Scripts' opening share price on April 2, 2012), and the number of replacement stock options and restricted stock units to be 48.7 million. See the calculation of the pro forma adjustments to common stock and additional paid-in capital below (in millions):
 
 
 
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Operations
(G) Revenues and Cost of revenues
Adjustments have been included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations to eliminate revenues and cost of revenues from transactions between Express Scripts and Medco. Express Scripts' and Medco's pharmacies may be included in the pharmacy networks of the other respective company in order to fulfill members' prescriptions for certain drugs that are under limited or exclusive distribution contracts with manufacturers.
(H) Selling, general and administrative
 
 
 
(I) Interest Expense
For the purposes of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, Express Scripts is assumed to partially fund the Mergers through drawing $4.0 billion under the Term Loan Facility, drawing $0.6 billion under the Revolving Loan Facility, and using the approximately $7.6 billion of net proceeds from the New Express Scripts Senior Notes. Actual withdrawals under the Revolving Loan Facility were $0.4 billion, primarily due to cash received from operations during the period between December 31, 2011, the date of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet, and April 2, 2012, the consummation date of the Mergers. The adjustment included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations reflects the additional interest expense using an estimated weighted average interest rate of 3.94% for the year ended December 31, 2011. The estimated interest rates for the Revolving Loan Facility and the Term Loan Facility were calculated using the prime rate plus a margin of 0.55% and 0.75%, respectively, based on Express Scripts' consolidated leverage ratio as of December 31, 2011. Adjustments have also been made for the historical interest expense related to Medco's $2.0 billion of debt outstanding under its unsecured credit agreements that was repaid at the closing of the Mergers.
The adjustment to interest expense reflects the following (in millions):
 
(J) Income taxes
The pro forma condensed combined income tax provision has been adjusted for the tax effect of adjustments to income before income taxes at the estimated blended effective rate for the periods presented as the effective rate approximates the statutory rate for the periods presented. The effective tax rate of the combined company could be significantly different depending on post-acquisition activities.
(K) Basic and diluted shares
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined basic and diluted earnings per share calculations are based on the combined basic and diluted weighted-average shares. The historical basic and diluted weighted average shares of Medco are assumed to be replaced by the shares issued by New Express Scripts at an exchange ratio of 0.81 per Medco share. In periods following consummation of the Mergers, basic and diluted weighted-average shares outstanding may differ from the amounts used in these pro forma condensed combined financial statements for various reasons, including but not limited to the impact of share repurchases that occurred in 2011, the exercise of stock options and settlement of restricted stock units, and differences in the dilutive impact of awards granted under either of Express Scripts' or Medco's share-based compensation arrangements.
 


