FILE:ESRX/ESRX-8K-20121105160515.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 5, 2012, Express Scripts Holding Company (the "Company") issued a press release with respect to its results of operations for the period ending September 30, 2012. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the accompanying Exhibit 99.1, shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, whether made before or after the date hereof, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) The following Exhibits are furnished as part of this report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contact:
Jeff Hall, Chief Financial Officer
David Myers, Vice President, Investor Relations
(314) 810-3115
investor.relations@express-scripts.com
Express Scripts (Nasdaq: ESRX) announced 2012 third quarter net income of $391.4 million, or $0.47 per diluted share. Adjusted earnings per share, as detailed in Table 4 were $1.02 per diluted share for the third quarter.
ST. LOUIS, November 5, 2012 
"Our solid third quarter results demonstrate our continued success as a combined organization," stated George Paz, chairman and chief executive officer. "Integration continues on track and together we are building on our legacy of advancing healthcare through innovation and an unwavering alignment with our clients."
(Data reflected on an adjusted basis. See Tables 2 and 3)
Third Quarter 2012 Review
All key metrics compared to 2011 were affected by the inclusion of Medco results beginning in the second quarter of 2012. Gross profit margin and EBITDA per adjusted claim increases over last year are mainly attributed to improved operating performance, including increased generic utilization.
 
 
 
 
 
 
2012 Guidance
Due to strong operating performance, increased generic utilization and the accelerated realization of synergies, the Company now expects to achieve adjusted earnings per share for 2012 in the range of $3.65 to $3.75. Adjusted earnings per share excludes items as detailed in Table 5.
Total adjusted claims are expected to be approximately 1.4 billion. The guidance range assumes 2012 diluted weighted-average shares of 750 million. Diluted weighted-average shares may differ due to, among other factors, the exercise of stock options and settlement of restricted stock units, and differences in the dilutive impact of awards granted under either of Express Scripts' or Medco's share-based compensation agreements. The guidance range assumes a full year 2012 adjusted effective tax rate of approximately 39.6%. Variations in assumed diluted weighted-average shares and tax rate may materially impact the guidance range.
The successful integration of Medco continues, with the Company meeting or exceeding its targets.
2013 Economic and Environmental Outlook
Express Scripts previously announced that it will provide 2013 guidance in conjunction with its fourth quarter results. In addition to the expected claims loss from the UnitedHealthcare book of business throughout the year, the Company believes its 2013 outlook will also be influenced by the current weak business climate and the unemployment outlook. These factors would likely result in significant in-group member attrition, continued low utilization rates and increased client demands and expectations.
Express Scripts expects to grow earnings per share and EBITDA in 2013. However, given the factors discussed above, the Company views current consensus estimates for 2013 as overly aggressive.
"Despite near-term headwinds and a challenging macroeconomic environment, we remain confident we are well-positioned for continued growth", stated Paz. "We have historically managed expenses rigorously while investing toward the future, focusing on innovation, service and optimal clinical outcomes, and will continue to do so, even when faced with challenges on other fronts."
About Express Scripts
Express Scripts manages more than a billion prescriptions each year for tens of millions of people. On behalf of our clients  employers, health plans, unions and government health programs  we make the use of prescription drugs safer and more affordable. We innovate to enhance patient care, reduce pharmacy-related waste and increase therapy adherence. Building on a strong clinical foundation, we apply our understanding of the behavioral sciences  an approach we call  to make it easier for people to choose better health.
Consumerology
Headquartered in St. Louis, Express Scripts provides integrated pharmacy benefit management services, including network-pharmacy claims processing, home delivery, specialty benefit management, benefit-design consultation, drug-utilization review, formulary management, and medical and drug data analysis services. The company also distributes a full range of biopharmaceutical products and provides extensive cost-management and patient-care services.
For more information, visit or follow on Twitter.
www.Express-Scripts.com
@ExpressScripts
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements related to the Company's plans, objectives, expectations (financial and otherwise) or intentions. Actual results may differ significantly from those projected or suggested in any forward-looking
statements. Factors that may impact these forward-looking statements can be found in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Company's Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on or about November 5, 2012. A copy of this form can be found at the Investor Relations section of Express Scripts' web site at .
http://www.express-scripts.com/corporate
We do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
 
 
 
 
Note: See Appendix for footnotes.
 
Note: See Appendix for footnotes.
The Company is providing adjusted gross profit and selling, general and administrative expenses excluding the impact of non-recurring charges and amortization of intangible assets in order to compare the underlying financial performance to prior periods.
The following is a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA
(6)
. The Company believes net income is the most directly comparable measure calculated under U.S. GAAP.
 
Note: See Appendix for footnotes.
The Company is providing EBITDA excluding the impact of non-recurring charges in order to compare the underlying financial performance to prior periods.
 
Note: See Appendix for footnotes.
The Company is providing diluted earnings per share excluding the impact of non-recurring / transaction-related items and amortization of intangible assets in order to compare the underlying financial performance to prior periods.
 
The guidance range assumes 2012 diluted weighted-average shares of 750 million. Diluted weighted-average shares may differ due to, among other factors, the exercise of stock options and settlement of restricted stock units, and differences in the dilutive impact of awards granted under either of Express Scripts' or Medco's share-based compensation agreements. The guidance range assumes a full year 2012 adjusted effective tax rate of approximately 39.6%. Variations in assumed diluted weighted-average shares and tax rate may materially impact the guidance range.
Note: See Appendix for footnotes.
 
In addition, intangible amortization of $10.1 million ($6.3 million net of tax) is included in selling, general and administrative expense in the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011. Intangible amortization of $30.5 million ($18.3 million and $19.3 million net of tax in 2012 and 2011, respectively) is included in selling, general and administrative expense in the nine months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011.
 
Costs of $21.8 million ($13.5 million net of tax) and $33.7 million ($20.2 million net of tax) for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2012, respectively, primarily composed of integration-related activities, are included in cost of revenues.
Costs of $158.9 million ($98.4 million net of tax) and $20.3 million ($12.8 million net of tax) primarily composed of severance costs, including stock compensation, are included in selling, general and administrative expense in the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Costs of $565.9 million ($339.0 million net of tax) and $20.3 million ($12.8 million net of tax) are included in selling, general and administrative expense in the nine months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
The Company recorded net charges of $20.2 million ($12.5 million and $12.1 million net of tax in the three months and nine months, respectively) within selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2012 in conjunction with the strategic decision to exit various businesses.
 


