FILE:AIZ/AIZ-8K-20041217153630.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(212) 859-7000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On December 17, 2004, Assurant, Inc. (the "Company") is entering into Change of Control Severance Agreements with several executive officers and employees effective as of January 1, 2005. The severance agreements generally provide that if a change in control (as defined) occurs with respect to Assurant, Inc. for certain employees, and with respect to the business segment for which an employee works for others, then a two-year trigger period begins. If the employee's employment is terminated by the Company without cause or if the employee resigns for good reason (each as defined) during such two-year period, the employee is entitled to certain cash severance payments and continuation of medical and other welfare benefits for a period of 18 months following the termination of employment at the rate charged active employees.
     The amount of cash severance benefits payable to an employee is equal to a multiple (ranging from 1 to 3 depending on the agreement) times the sum of the employee's annual base salary and target annual bonus. The multiple for each of the Company's named executive officers, who are listed below, is 3. The cash severance for all employees is payable in a lump sum within thirty days of the date the employee's employment is terminated.
     In addition, an employee will be entitled to the cash severance and continuation of welfare benefits if a change of control occurs and the employee's employment was terminated by the Company without cause (or the employee resigned for good reason) within one year prior to the change in control, in each case in anticipation of the change of control (as defined). In this case, the cash severance will be paid in a lump sum within thirty days after the date on which the change of control occurs, and the Company will reimburse the employee for the cost of obtaining continued welfare benefits between the date of termination and the date of the change of control.
     The agreements also provide additional rights including, but not limited to, outplacement services, legal fee reimbursement and reimbursement for any excise tax imposed on the employee by section 4999 of the U.S. tax code.
Item 9.01 Exhibits & Financial Statements
     The Company is entering into Change of Control Severance Agreements in substantially the form described in this report with the following named executive officers:
     The form of the agreement entered into with Mr. Clayton, Mr. Pollock and Ms. Silvester is attached as Exhibit 99.1, and the form of the agreement entered into with Mr. Camacho is attached as Exhibit 99.2. Mr. Camacho's agreement differs from the agreements for the other named executive officers because Mr. Camacho works with the Assurant Solutions business segment, and the other named executive officers work with Assurant, Inc., the holding company.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
     THIS CHANGE IN CONTROL SEVERANCE AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made by and between Assurant, Inc. (the "Company") and (the "Executive"), and is effective as of the 1st day of January, 2005.
                   
                   
     The Executive's Multiplier (as defined in Section 1(f) below) is 3.
     The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication of Executive, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined below) of the Company. The Board believes it is imperative to diminish the inevitable distraction of Executive by virtue of the personal uncertainties and risks created by a pending or threatened Change in Control and to encourage Executive's full attention and dedication to the Company currently and in the event of any threatened or pending Change in Control, and to provide Executive with compensation and benefits arrangements upon a Change in Control which ensure that the compensation and benefits expectations of Executive will be satisfied and which are competitive with those of other corporations. Therefore, in order to accomplish these objectives, the Board has caused the Company to enter into this Agreement.
     IN CONSIDERATION OF THE MUTUAL PROMISES SET FORTH HEREIN, THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board of Directors, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed in its name on its behalf by its undersigned officer thereunto, duly authorized, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
     THIS RELEASE (this "Release") is granted effective as of the    day of    ,    , by    (the "Executive") in favor of Assurant, Inc. (the "Company"). This is the Release referred to in that certain Change in Control Severance Agreement dated as of    , 200    by and between the Company and the Executive (the "CIC Agreement"). The Executive gives this Release in consideration of the Company's promises and covenants as recited in the CIC Agreement, with respect to which this Release is an integral part.
     1. Release of the Company. The Executive, for [himself] [herself], [his] [her] successors, assigns, attorneys, and all those entitled to assert [his] [her] rights, now and forever hereby releases and discharges the Company and its respective officers, directors, stockholders, trustees, employees, agents, parent corporations, subsidiaries, affiliates, estates, successors, assigns and attorneys (the "Released Parties"), from any and all claims, actions, causes of action, sums of money due, suits, debts, liens, covenants, contracts, obligations, costs, expenses, damages, judgments, agreements, promises, demands, claims for attorney's fees and costs, or liabilities whatsoever, in law or in equity, which the Executive ever had or now has against the Released Parties, including any claims arising by reason of or in any way connected with any employment relationship which existed between the Company or any of its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, or predecessors, and the Executive. It is understood and agreed that this Release is intended to cover all actions, causes of action, claims or demands for any damage, loss or injury, which may be traced either directly or indirectly to the aforesaid employment relationship, or the termination of that relationship, that the Executive has, had or purports to have, from the beginning of time to the date of this Release, whether known or unknown, that now exists, no matter how remotely they may be related to the aforesaid employment relationship including but not limited to claims for employment discrimination under federal or state law, except as provided in Paragraph 2; claims arising under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, 42 U.S.C.  2000(e), et seq. or the Americans With Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C.  12101 et seq.; claims for statutory or common law wrongful discharge, including any claims arising under the Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 U.S.C.  201 et seq.; claims for attorney's fees, expenses and costs; claims for defamation; claims for wages or vacation pay; claims for benefits, including any claims arising under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, 29 U.S.C.  1001, et seq.; and provided, however, that nothing herein shall release the Company of its obligations to the Executive under the CIC Agreement or any other contractual obligations between the Company or its affiliates and the Executive, or any indemnification obligations to Executive under the Company's bylaws, certificate of incorporation, New York law or otherwise.
     2. Release of Claims Under Age Discrimination in Employment Act. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Executive agrees that by executing this Release, [he] [she] has released and waived any and all claims [he] [she] has or may have as of the date of this Release for age discrimination under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C.  621, et seq. It is understood that the Executive is advised to consult with an attorney prior to executing this Release; that the Executive in fact has consulted a knowledgeable, competent attorney regarding this Release; that the Executive may, before executing this Release, consider this Release for a period of twenty-one (21) calendar days; and that the consideration the Executive receives for this Release is in addition to amounts to which the Executive was already entitled. It is further understood that this Release is not effective until seven (7) calendar days after the execution of this Release and that the Executive may revoke this Release within seven (7) calendar days from the date of execution hereof.
     The Executive agrees that [he] [she] has carefully read this Release and is signing it voluntarily. The Executive acknowledges that [he] [she] has had twenty one (21) days from receipt of this Release to review it
 
prior to signing or that, if the Executive is signing this Release prior to the expiration of such 21-day period, the Executive is waiving [his] [her] right to review the Release for such full 21-day period prior to signing it. The Executive has the right to revoke this release within seven (7) days following the date of its execution by [him] [her]. However, if the Executive revokes this Release within such seven (7) day period, no severance benefit will be payable to the Executive under the CIC Agreement and the Executive shall return to the Company any such payment received prior to that date.
     THE EXECUTIVE HAS CAREFULLY READ THIS RELEASE AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT CONSTITUTES A GENERAL RELEASE OF ALL KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS AGAINST THE COMPANY UNDER THE AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT ACT. THE EXECUTIVE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT [HE] [SHE] HAS HAD A FULL OPPORTUNITY TO CONSULT WITH AN ATTORNEY OR OTHER ADVISOR OF THE EXECUTIVE'S CHOOSING CONCERNING [HIS] [HER] EXECUTION OF THIS RELEASE AND THAT [HE] [SHE] IS SIGNING THIS RELEASE VOLUNTARILY AND WITH THE FULL INTENT OF RELEASING THE COMPANY FROM ALL SUCH CLAIMS.

 
Exhibit 99.2
     THIS CHANGE IN CONTROL SEVERANCE AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made by and between Assurant, Inc. (the "Company") and          (the "Executive"), an officer of the Assurant Solutions Division (as defined in Section 1(d) below), and is effective as of the 1st day of January, 2005.
     The Executive's Multiplier (as defined in Section 1(f) below) is 3.
     The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication of Executive, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined below) of the Company. The Board believes it is imperative to diminish the inevitable distraction of Executive by virtue of the personal uncertainties and risks created by a pending or threatened Change in Control and to encourage Executive's full attention and dedication to the Company currently and in the event of any threatened or pending Change in Control, and to provide Executive with compensation and benefits arrangements upon a Change in Control which ensure that the compensation and benefits expectations of Executive will be satisfied and which are competitive with those of other corporations. Therefore, in order to accomplish these objectives, the Board has caused the Company to enter into this Agreement.
     IN CONSIDERATION OF THE MUTUAL PROMISES SET FORTH HEREIN, THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the Severance to which the Executive would be entitled if his or her employment terminated on the CIC Date; provided, however, that if such amount deposited in the Rabbi Trust together with any interest or earnings thereon is determined later to be less than or more than the amount of the Severance, if any, that actually becomes due to the Executive hereunder, the Executive shall be entitled to the amount required by this Agreement and not the amount that is held in such trust. In the event that the Executive does not become entitled to the Severance, as determined by the trustee of the Rabbi Trust, the amount remaining in the Rabbi Trust shall be returned to the Company after the expiration of the Post-CIC Period. The Rabbi Trust shall be used solely for the purpose of holding deposits of funds for the potential Severance obligations to the Executive hereunder, and other similar obligations to similarly situated employees of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance with this Section. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board of Directors, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed in its name on its behalf by its undersigned officer thereunto, duly authorized, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
     THIS RELEASE (this "Release") is granted effective as of the                       day of                                          ,                       , by                                          (the "Executive") in favor of Assurant, Inc. (the "Company"). This is the Release referred to in that certain Change in Control Severance Agreement dated as of                       , 200                       by and between the Company and the Executive (the "CIC Agreement"). The Executive gives this Release in consideration of the Company's promises and covenants as recited in the CIC Agreement, with respect to which this Release is an integral part.
     1. Release of the Company. The Executive, for [himself] [herself], [his] [her] successors, assigns, attorneys, and all those entitled to assert [his] [her] rights, now and forever hereby releases and discharges the Company and its respective officers, directors, stockholders, trustees, employees, agents, parent corporations, subsidiaries, affiliates, estates, successors, assigns and attorneys (the "Released Parties"), from any and all claims, actions, causes of action, sums of money due, suits, debts, liens, covenants, contracts, obligations, costs, expenses, damages, judgments, agreements, promises, demands, claims for attorney's fees and costs, or liabilities whatsoever, in law or in equity, which the Executive ever had or now has against the Released Parties, including any claims arising by reason of or in any way connected with any employment relationship which existed between the Company or any of its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, or predecessors, and the Executive. It is understood and agreed that this Release is intended to cover all actions, causes of action, claims or demands for any damage, loss or injury, which may be traced either directly or indirectly to the aforesaid employment relationship, or the termination of that relationship, that the Executive has, had or purports to have, from the beginning of time to the date of this Release, whether known or unknown, that now exists, no matter how remotely they may be related to the aforesaid employment relationship including but not limited to claims for employment discrimination under federal or state law, except as provided in Paragraph 2; claims arising under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, 42 U.S.C.  2000(e), et seq. or the Americans With Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C.  12101 et seq.; claims for statutory or common law wrongful discharge, including any claims arising under the Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 U.S.C.  201 et seq.; claims for attorney's fees, expenses and costs; claims for defamation; claims for wages or vacation pay; claims for benefits, including any claims arising under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, 29 U.S.C.  1001, et seq.; and provided, however, that nothing herein shall release the Company of its obligations to the Executive under the CIC Agreement or any other contractual obligations between the Company or its affiliates and the Executive, or any indemnification obligations to Executive under the Company's bylaws, certificate of incorporation, New York law or otherwise.
     2. Release of Claims Under Age Discrimination in Employment Act. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Executive agrees that by executing this Release, [he] [she] has released and waived any and all claims [he] [she] has or may have as of the date of this Release for age discrimination under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C.  621, et seq. It is understood that the Executive is advised to consult with an attorney prior to executing this Release; that the Executive in fact has consulted a knowledgeable, competent attorney regarding this Release; that the Executive may, before executing this Release, consider this Release for a period of twenty-one (21) calendar days; and that the consideration the Executive receives for this Release is in addition to amounts to which the Executive was already entitled. It is further understood that this Release is not effective until seven (7) calendar days after the execution of this Release and that the Executive may revoke this Release within seven (7) calendar days from the date of execution hereof.
     The Executive agrees that [he] [she] has carefully read this Release and is signing it voluntarily. The Executive acknowledges that [he] [she] has had twenty one (21) days from receipt of this Release to review it prior to signing or that, if the Executive is signing this Release prior to the expiration of such 21-day period, the Executive is waiving [his] [her] right to review the Release for such full 21-day period prior to signing it.
 
The Executive has the right to revoke this release within seven (7) days following the date of its execution by [him] [her]. However, if the Executive revokes this Release within such seven (7) day period, no severance benefit will be payable to the Executive under the CIC Agreement and the Executive shall return to the Company any such payment received prior to that date.
     THE EXECUTIVE HAS CAREFULLY READ THIS RELEASE AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT CONSTITUTES A GENERAL RELEASE OF ALL KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS AGAINST THE COMPANY UNDER THE AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT ACT. THE EXECUTIVE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT [HE] [SHE] HAS HAD A FULL OPPORTUNITY TO CONSULT WITH AN ATTORNEY OR OTHER ADVISOR OF THE EXECUTIVE'S CHOOSING CONCERNING [HIS] [HER] EXECUTION OF THIS RELEASE AND THAT [HE] [SHE] IS SIGNING THIS RELEASE VOLUNTARILY AND WITH THE FULL INTENT OF RELEASING THE COMPANY FROM ALL SUCH CLAIMS.


