FILE:AIZ/AIZ-8K-20050316142144.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On March 10, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Assurant, Inc. (the "Company") established performance goals and target short-term incentive awards for executive officers for fiscal year 2005 under the Executive Management Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The final value of such awards will be determined pursuant to four equally-weighted factors: (a) earnings per share, determined using net operating income, (for those in a Business Unit, Net Operating Income of the Business Unit) (b) return on equity, determined using net operating income and equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income, (for those in a Business Unit, return on equity of the Business Unit) (c) compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as determined by the Audit Committee, and (d) Company growth performance, determined as a weighted average of the results of certain emphasized lines of business in each business unit, measured with respect to a new sales measure and/or GAAP revenue (for those in a Business Unit, growth performance of the Business Unit.) Net operating income will be normalized for the effect of acquisitions, divestitures, changes in accounting principles, and other significant events, and, for those in a Business Unit, for the economic effect of the variance of plan versus actual allocated equity.
     The performance of the Company, or of a Business Unit, as so determined, will constitute the "corporate" component of performance evaluation for all officers. Officers below the Executive Management Committee level may have other measures included in their evaluation.
     Target awards, expressed as a percentage of base salary for various performance levels, were established for each participant. Actual bonuses payable for fiscal year 2005 (if any) will vary depending on the extent to which actual performance meets, exceeds, or falls short of the applicable performance goals. Performance against the criteria is measured on a five-point scale, as follows:
     On March 10, 2005, the Compensation Committee also approved the annual base salaries for Assurant's named executive officers. The following table sets forth the current base salary and target short-term incentive award for 2005 for such named executive officers:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


