FILE:AIZ/AIZ-8K-20060504080922.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On May 4, 2006, Assurant, Inc. issued a press release reporting on its financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005. The text of the press release, which is attached at Exhibit 99.1, and the statistical supplement which accompanied the press release, which is attached at Exhibit 99.2, are each incorporated by reference into this Item.
Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
New York  May 4, 2006  Assurant, Inc. ("Assurant") (NYSE: AIZ), a premier provider of specialized insurance and insurance-related products and services, today reported its results for the first quarter 2006.
Net income in the first quarter of 2006 increased 42% to $162.5 million, or $1.23 per diluted share, versus first quarter 2005 net income of $114.4 million, or $0.82 per diluted share.
Net operating income (see footnote 1 at the end of this release) for the first quarter of 2006 increased 42% to $163.8 million, or $1.24 per diluted share, compared to first quarter 2005 net operating income of $115.1 million, or $0.82 per diluted share.
Robert B. Pollock, president and chief executive officer, said: "We are pleased with Assurant's strong first quarter performance, the best in our history. Tremendous results in our Solutions and Specialty Property businesses were the primary driver of improved net operating income. Our diversified specialty insurance strategy continues to deliver strong profitability and we are pleased with our progress in generating long-term profitable growth."
Net earned premiums of $1.7 billion in the first quarter of 2006 increased 2% from the same period in 2005. Excluding the sale of the preneed U.S. independent franchise, net earned premiums would be up 5%, primarily driven by 20% net earned premium growth in Solutions and Specialty Property.
Net investment income in the first quarter of 2006 increased to $192.6 million from $164.2 million in the first quarter of 2005 primarily as a result of improved yields. Excluding $14.7 million of investment income from a real estate partnership in the
 
quarter, the yield on average invested assets and cash and cash equivalents was 5.75% in the first quarter of 2006, compared to 5.54% in the fourth quarter of 2005, and 5.51% in the first quarter of 2005.
Reconciliation of Net operating income to Net income
Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property
Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property first quarter 2006 net operating income was $97.3 million, up 78% from first quarter 2005 net operating income of $54.8 million. Net operating income for the first quarter 2006 increased primarily due to low combined ratios. First quarter 2006 includes $7.8 million pre tax of reimbursements received for processing and adjudicating services under the National Flood Insurance Program. Results were also favorably impacted by a 22% increase in investment income including $2.5 million pre tax of investment income from a real estate partnership and a 20% increase in fee income during the quarter.
Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property first quarter 2006 net earned premiums increased 20% to $739.2 million from $615.2 million in the same year-ago period. The increase is a result of premium growth in all of our Specialty Property
 
businesses, especially in creditor-placed homeowners, as well as growth in Solutions' domestic and international extended service contracts.
Assurant Health
Assurant Health first quarter 2006 net operating income decreased 9% to $45.1 million from $49.7 million in the same period in 2005. The decrease is primarily the result of a decline in small group membership and an increase in expenses aimed at growing the individual markets business. Results benefited from $7.4 million pre tax of investment income from a real estate partnership. The combined ratio for the quarter was 91.6% as a result of stable loss ratios.
Assurant Health first quarter 2006 net earned premiums of $523.4 million decreased 5% from $549.5 million in the same period in 2005, due to the decline in small group premiums. Individual medical premiums increased despite a small decline in membership.
Assurant Employee Benefits
Assurant Employee Benefits first quarter 2006 net operating income increased 17% to $19.2 million from net operating income of $16.4 million in the same period of 2005. Net operating income for the first quarter 2006 increased primarily due to improved disability and dental loss experience.
Assurant Employee Benefits first quarter 2006 net earned premiums decreased 6% to $326.1 million from $345.9 million in the same period of 2005. The decrease was driven primarily by lower sales and persistency due to changes to support the business' small case strategy. Disability premiums include single premium amounts of $33.9 million in the quarter related to the assumption of closed blocks compared to $26.7 million in the first quarter of 2005.
Assurant Preneed
Assurant Preneed first quarter 2006 net operating income decreased 1% to $6.9 million from net operating income of $7.0 million in the same period of 2005. The first quarter includes $1.9 million pre tax of transaction expenses related to the sale of the preneed U.S. independent franchise.
Assurant Preneed first quarter 2006 net earned premiums decreased 31% to $84.0 million from $121.2 million in the same period of 2005 primarily due to the sale of the preneed U.S. independent franchise. Lower U.S. premium growth was partially offset by continued growth in Canada.
 
Corporate
Corporate and other net operating loss for the first quarter of 2006 was $0.4 million, compared to a loss of $10.5 million in the first quarter of 2005. The improvement in results is primarily the result of a reduction in expenses associated with the required change in accounting methodology for stock appreciation rights costs. Also, Corporate and other results include $4.8 million pre tax of investment income from a real estate partnership.
Financial Position
At March 31, 2006 total assets were $24.7 billion. Stockholders' equity, excluding Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI), was $3.6 billion and book value per diluted share, excluding AOCI, was up 4% to $27.18 from $26.25 at December 31, 2005. Debt to total capital, excluding AOCI, dropped to 21.8%.
Earnings Conference Call
Assurant will host a conference call Thursday, May 4, 2006 at 10:00 (ET) with access available via Internet and telephone. Investors and analysts may participate in the live conference call by dialing 800-473-6123 (toll-free domestic) or 973-582-2706 (international); passcode: 7188715. Please call to register at least 10 minutes before the conference call begins. A replay of the call will be available for one week via the telephone starting at approximately 12:00 (ET) on May4, 2006 and can be accessed at 877-519-4471 (toll-free domestic) or 973-341-3080 (international); passcode: 7188715 The webcast will be archived for one month on Assurant's website.
A.M.
P.M.
About Assurant
Assurant is a premier provider of specialized insurance products and related services in North America and selected other international markets. The five key businesses  Assurant Employee Benefits; Assurant Health; Assurant Preneed; Assurant Solutions; and Assurant Specialty Property  have partnered with clients who are leaders in their industries and have built leadership positions in a number of specialty insurance market segments in the U.S. and selected international markets. The Assurant business units provide creditor-placed homeowners insurance; manufactured housing homeowners insurance; debt protection administration; credit-related insurance; warranties and extended service contracts; individual health and small employer group health insurance; group dental insurance; group disability insurance; group life insurance; and pre-funded funeral insurance.
The company, which is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AIZ, has over $20 billion in assets and $7 billion in annual revenue. Assurant has more than
 
12,000 employees worldwide and is headquartered in New York's financial district. www.assurant.com
Safe Harbor Statement
Some of the statements included in this press release, particularly those anticipating future financial performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies and similar matters, are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. For a discussion of the factors that could affect our actual results please refer to the risk factors identified from time to time in our SEC reports, including, but not limited to, our 10-K, as filed with the SEC.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Assurant uses the following non-GAAP financial measure to analyze the company's operating performance for the periods presented in this press release. Because Assurant's calculation may differ from similar measures used by other companies, investors should be careful when comparing Assurant's non-GAAP financial measure to those of other companies.
(1) Assurant uses net operating income as an important measure of the company's operating performance. Net operating income equals net income excluding net realized gains (losses) on investments and other unusual and/or infrequent items. The company believes net operating income provides investors a valuable measure of the performance of the company's ongoing business, because it excludes both the effect of realized gains (losses) on investments that tend to be highly variable from period to period, and those events that are unusual and/or unlikely to recur.
 
Assurant, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Operations (unaudited) Three months Ended March 31, 2006 and 2005
 
Assurant, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets At March 31, 2006 (unaudited) and December 31, 2005

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
INDEX TO SUPPLEMENT
About Assurant:
Assurant is a premier provider of specialized insurance products and related services in North America and selected other markets. The four key business segments  Assurant Employee Benefits; Assurant Health; Assurant Preneed; and Assurant Solutions  have partnered with clients who are leaders in their industries and have built leadership positions in a number of specialty insurance markets in the U.S. and selected international markets. The Assurant business segments provide creditor-placed homeowners insurance; manufactured housing homeowners insurance; debt protection administration; credit insurance; warranties and extended services contracts; individual health and small employer group health insurance; group dental insurance; group disability insurance; group life insurance; and pre-funded funeral insurance.
The company, which is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AIZ, has over $20 billion in assets and $7 billion in annual revenue. Assurant has more than 12,000 employees and is headquartered in New York's financial district.
Safe Harbor Statement:
Some of the statements included in this statistical supplement, particularly those anticipating future financial performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies and similar matters, are forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. For a discussion of the factors that could affect our actual results please refer to the risk factors identified from time to time in our SEC reports, posted on the Assurant website at www.assurant.com.
 
Regulation G  Non GAAP Measures
Assurant uses the following non-GAAP financial measures to analyze the company's operating performance for the periods presented in the press release. Because Assurant's calculation of these measures may differ from similar measures used by other companies, investors should be careful when comparing Assurant's non-GAAP financial measures to those of other companies.
(1) Assurant uses net operating income as an important measure of the company's operating performance. Net operating income equals net income, excluding net realized gains (losses) on investments and unusual and/or infrequent items. The company believes net operating income provides investors a valuable measure of the performance of the company's ongoing business, because it excludes both the effect of realized gains (losses) on investments that tend to be highly variable from period to period, and those events that are unusual and/or unlikely to recur.
(2) Pro forma earnings per share has been included as a measure of operating performance. In February 2004, Assurant completed a significant capital restructuring in conjunction with its initial public offering of common stock. Pro forma earnings per share reflects earnings per share adjusted as if this capital restructuring had occurred on January 1, 2003. This restructuring included: a stock split and conversion of Class B and C shares resulting in total outstanding shares of 109,222,276; the issuance of 32,976,854 shares of Assurant common stock to Fortis Insurance N.V. in exchange for a capital contribution of $725.5 million, and the issuance of 68,976 restricted shares of Assurant common stock to certain officers and directors of the company pursuant to specific restricted stock grants. These transactions occurred subsequent to the December 31, 2003 balance sheet, but management believes that this adjusted measure provides a better indication of operating performance than the corresponding GAAP measure, earnings per share.
(3) Book value per share excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) has been included as a measure of stockholder value. The company believes book value per share excluding AOCI provides investors a better measure of stockholder value than book value per share because it excludes the effect of unrealized gains (losses) on investments and foreign currency translation, which tend to be highly variable from period to period.
 
Assurant, Inc. and Subsidiaries Summary Financial Highlights (Unaudited)
 
Assurant, Inc. and Subsidiaries Summary Financial Highlights (continued) (Unaudited)
 
Assurant, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets (Unaudited)
 
Assurant, Inc. and Subsidiaries Reconciliation of Net Operating Income to Net Income (Unaudited)
 
Assurant, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Condensed Statement of Operations (Unaudited)
 
 
Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property Condensed Statement of Operations (Unaudited)
 
 
Assurant Health Condensed Statement of Operations (Unaudited)
 
Assurant Health (continued) Condensed Statement of Operations (Unaudited)
 
 
Assurant Employee Benefits Condensed Statement of Operations (Unaudited)
 
Assurant Employee Benefits (continued) Condensed Statement of Operations (Unaudited)
 
 
Assurant Preneed Condensed Statement of Operations (Unaudited)
 
 
Assurant Corporate and Other Condensed Statement of Operations (Unaudited)
 
Assurant, Inc. and Subsidiaries Investments (Unaudited)
 
Assurant, Inc. Investment Results by Asset Category and Annualized Yields (Unaudited)


