FILE:AIZ/AIZ-8K-20070705090141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Earlier today, Assurant, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(c) Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed as part of this report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Assurant Employees Receive Notification From SEC Regarding Ongoing Investigation of Certain Loss Mitigation Insurance Products
New York  July 5, 2007  Assurant, Inc. ("Assurant") (NYSE: AIZ), announced today that the company has learned that Michael Steinman, senior vice president and chief actuary, Assurant Solutions /Assurant Specialty Property and Dan Folse, vice president-risk management, Assurant Solutions / Assurant Specialty Property, have each received a "Wells notice" from the staff of the Division of Enforcement of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") in connection with its ongoing investigation of certain loss mitigation insurance products. The Wells notices indicate that the SEC staff is considering recommending that the SEC bring a civil enforcement action against these individuals for violating various provisions of the federal securities laws. Under the SEC's procedures, recipients of a Wells notice have the opportunity to respond to the SEC staff before the staff makes its formal recommendation to the Commission on whether any civil enforcement action should be brought by the SEC. As previously disclosed, the company continues to cooperate with the SEC in its investigation.
Assurant is a premier provider of specialized insurance products and related services in North America and selected international markets. Its four key businessesAssurant Employee Benefits, Assurant Health, Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Propertyhave partnered with clients who are leaders in their industries and have built leadership positions in a number of specialty insurance market segments worldwide.
Assurant, a Fortune 500 company, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AIZ. Assurant has more than $20 billion in assets and $7 billion in annual revenue. The Assurant Web site is .
www.assurant.com


