FILE:AIZ/AIZ-8K-20071113074318.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On November 12, 2007, Assurant, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that Michele Coleman Mayes has stepped down from the Company's Board of Directors effective November 12, 2007. The text of the press release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference into this Item.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
99.1         Press Release dated November 12, 2007.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NEW YORK, Nov. 12, 2007 -- Assurant, Inc. ("Assurant") (NYSE: AIZ), a premier provider of specialty insurance and insurance-related products and services, announced today that Michele Coleman Mayes has stepped down from the company's board of directors effective today. Ms. Mayes informed Assurant that due to her recent appointment to the position of vice president and general counsel at The Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) and the potential for a future actual or perceived conflict of interest, she would no longer be able to serve on the company's board.
J. Kerry Clayton, Assurant's interim president and chief executive officer, said: "We congratulate Michele on her new role with Allstate and thank her for the enormous contributions she has made over the past three years as a member of our board of directors. Michele was the first new director to join our board after we went public. She has been a great director and we wish her all the best in her new career."
The company's board of directors intends to initiate a search for an independent director to fill the seat vacated by Ms. Mayes.
Assurant is a premier provider of specialized insurance products and related services in North America and selected international markets. Its four key businesses -- Assurant Solutions; Assurant Specialty Property; Assurant Health; and Assurant Employee Benefits -- have partnered with clients who are leaders in their industries and have built leadership positions in a number of specialty insurance market segments worldwide.
Assurant, a Fortune 500 company and a member of the S&P 500, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AIZ. Assurant has over $25 billion in assets and $7 billion in annual revenue www. assurant.com.


