FILE:AIZ/AIZ-8K-20090701170939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(d) On June 29, 2009, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Assurant, Inc. (the "Company") elected Lawrence V. Jackson to the Board. Mr. Jackson's appointment is effective as of July 1, 2009. Mr. Jackson will serve as a Class II director. Mr. Jackson has not been named to serve on any committee of the Board. There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Jackson and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Jackson was elected as a director.
While serving as a director, Mr. Jackson will receive annual retainers and per-meeting fees in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Assurant Directors Compensation Plan, described in the Company's 2009 Proxy Statement filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on April 9, 2009. In addition, in connection with his appointment, Mr. Jackson will receive a grant of a number of time-based restricted stock units ("RSUs") having a value of $80,000 (determined based on the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the grant date) under the Assurant, Inc. Long Term Equity Incentive Plan (the "ALTEIP"), pursuant to a Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (the "RSU Award Agreement") for grants of equity compensation to non-employee directors. The following description of the form of RSU Award Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the ALTEIP plan document appended as an exhibit to the Form S-8 Registration Statement filed with the SEC on May 15, 2008 and the form of RSU Award Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto.
The form of RSU Award Agreement provides for the award of RSUs that vest in equal annual installments on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant date, subject to a director's continuous service on the Board through the applicable vesting date. RSUs are settled in shares of the Company's common stock no later than 30 days following the applicable vesting date, and are credited with dividend equivalents that are paid in cash no later than 45 days following the record date for the related cash dividend. RSUs fully vest upon a Change of Control (as defined in the ALTEIP). Upon a termination of service (i) due to death or disability, vesting will be determined on a pro rata basis, or (ii) for any other reason, all unvested RSUs will be forfeited without payment. Directors are not entitled to voting rights with respect to any RSUs.
In connection with Mr. Jackson's election, the Company issued a press release on July 1, 2009. The text of the press release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 1, 2009

Exhibit 10.1
THIS AGREEMENT, dated as of , between Assurant, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and (the "Participant").
[]
                    
[]
                    
In consideration of the mutual promises and covenants made herein and the mutual benefits to be derived herefrom, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1. . (a) . Subject to the provisions of this Award Agreement (this "Agreement") and the provisions of the Assurant, Inc. Long Term Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the Company hereby grants to the Participant, as of (the "Grant Date"), Restricted Stock Units (the "Restricted Stock Units"), each with respect to one share of common stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per Share ("Common Stock"). All capitalized terms used herein, to the extent not defined, shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
Grant, Vesting and Forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units
Grant
[]
                    
[]
                    
(b) . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest, and shall no longer be subject to any restriction, in three substantially equal annual installments on each of the first three anniversaries of the Grant Date.
Vesting during the Restriction Period
(c) . Upon the Participant's Termination of Employment for any reason other than death or Disability during the Restriction Period, all Restricted Stock Units still subject to restriction shall be forfeited. Upon the Participant's Termination of Employment during the Restriction Period due to death or Disability, the Participant shall vest in, and the Restricted Period shall terminate with respect to, a number of Restricted Stock Units equal to the excess, if any, of (A) the product of (x) the total number of Restricted Stock Units and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full months in the Restriction Period from the Grant Date until the date of Termination of Employment ( that, for this purpose, the month in which the Grant Date occurs shall be considered a full month) and the denominator of which is the total number of months in the Restriction Period over (B) the number of Restricted Stock Units that previously vested as of the Termination of Employment without respect to this provision. For purposes of this Agreement, employment with, or the performance of services for, the Company shall include employment with, or the performance of services for, the Company's Affiliates and its successors. Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any of its Affiliates, or to continue to perform services for the Company or any of its Affiliates, or interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any such Affiliates to terminate the Participant's employment or performance of services at any time.
Forfeiture; Termination of Employment
provided
2. . As soon as practicable after the date on which the Restriction Period expires, and in no event later than 30 calendar days after such date, the Company shall deliver to the Participant or his or her personal representative, in book-position or certificate form, one Share that does not bear any restrictive legend for each vested Restricted Stock Unit.
Settlement of Units
3. . The Participant shall have the right to receive Dividend Equivalents with respect to Shares underlying Restricted Stock Units that are outstanding under this Agreement. The Dividend Equivalents represent the right to receive an amount equal to the aggregate regular cash dividends that would have been paid to the Participant if the Participant had been the record owner, on each record date for a cash dividend during the period from the Grant Date through the date on which the applicable Restricted Stock Units are settled, cancelled or forfeited of a number of Shares equal to the applicable number of Restricted Stock Units that vest pursuant to this Agreement. The Dividend Equivalents shall be paid, in cash, as soon as practicable, but in no event more than 45 calendar days following, the applicable record date for each such cash dividend.
Dividend Equivalents
4. . During the Restriction Period and until such time as the Restricted Stock Units are ultimately settled as provided in Section 2 above, the Restricted Stock Units and the Shares covered by the Restricted Stock Units shall not be transferable by the Participant by means of sale, assignment, exchange, encumbrance, pledge, hedge or otherwise. Any purported or attempted transfer of such Shares or such rights shall be null and void.
Nontransferability of the Restricted Stock Units
5. . During the Restriction Period, the Participant shall not be entitled to any rights of a stockholder with respect to the Restricted Stock Units (including, without limitation, any voting rights).
Rights as a Stockholder
6. . In the event of certain transactions during the Restricted Period, the Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3.4 of the Plan or any applicable successor provision under the Plan. In the event of a Change of Control before the Restricted Stock Units vest, the restrictions applicable to the Restricted Stock Units shall lapse, such Restricted Stock Units shall become free of all restrictions and become fully vested, consistent with Section 9.1 of the Plan, and shall be settled within 5 calendar days following the Change of Control; , that any Restricted Stock Units that constitute "nonqualified deferred compensation" as defined under Section 409A of the Code shall not be settled upon such Change of Control unless the Change of Control constitutes a "change in control event" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and will instead be settled at such time as specified in Section 2.
Adjustment; Change of Control
provided, however
7. . The Company agrees to pay any and all original issue taxes and stock transfer taxes that may be imposed on the issuance of shares received by a Participant in connection with the Restricted Stock Units, together with any and all other fees and expenses necessarily incurred by the Company in connection therewith.
Payment of Transfer Taxes, Fees and Other Expenses
8. . No later than the date as of which an amount first becomes includible in the gross income of the Participant for federal, state, local, foreign income, employment or other tax purposes with respect to any Restricted Stock Units, the Participant shall pay to the Company, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding the payment of, all federal, state, local and foreign taxes that are required by applicable laws and regulations to be withheld with respect to such amount. The obligations of the Company under this Agreement shall be conditioned on compliance by the Participant with this Section 8, and the
Taxes and Withholding
 
Company shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment otherwise due to the Participant, including deducting such amount from the delivery of shares upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units that gives rise to the withholding requirement.
9. . Notices and other communications under this Agreement must be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by facsimile, overnight courier, or registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
Notices
If to the Participant:
At the most recent address
on file at the Company.
If to the Company:
Assurant, Inc.
One Chase Manhattan Plaza, 41st Floor
New York, New York 10005
Attention: Secretary
or to such other address or facsimile number as any party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance with this Section 9. Notices and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Participant consents to electronic delivery of documents required to be delivered by the Company under the securities laws.
10. . This Agreement is personal to the Participant and, without the prior written consent of the Company, shall not be assignable by the Participant otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Participant's legal representatives. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns.
Effect of Agreement
11. . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without reference to principles of conflict of laws, as applied to contracts executed in and performed wholly within the State of Delaware. In addition to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units are subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, which is hereby incorporated by reference.
Laws Applicable to Construction; Consent to Jurisdiction
12. . If any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement are held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the other provisions of this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been included.
Severability
13. . In the event of any conflict between this Agreement and the Plan, the Plan shall control. In the event of any ambiguity in this Agreement, or any matters as to which this Agreement is silent, the Plan shall govern including, without
Conflicts and Interpretation
 
limitation, the provisions thereof pursuant to which the Committee has the power, among others, to (a) interpret the Plan, (b) prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and (c) make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. The Participant and the Company each acknowledges that this Agreement (together with the Plan) constitutes the entire agreement and supersedes all other agreements and understandings, both written and oral, among the parties or either of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
14. . The Company may modify, amend or waive the terms of the Restricted Stock Unit award, prospectively or retroactively, but no such modification, amendment or waiver shall materially impair the rights of the Participant without his or her consent, except as required by applicable law, stock exchange rules, tax rules or accounting rules. The waiver by either party of compliance with any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement, or of any subsequent breach by such party of a provision of this Agreement.
Amendment
15. . It is the intention of the Company that the Restricted Stock Units shall either (a) not constitute "nonqualified deferred compensation" as defined under Section 409A of the Code or (b) comply in all respects with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, such that no delivery of Shares pursuant to this Agreement will result in the imposition of taxation or penalties as a consequence of the application of Section 409A of the Code. Shares in respect of any Restricted Stock Units that (i) constitute "nonqualified deferred compensation" as defined under Section 409A of the Code and (ii) vest as a consequence of the Participant's termination of employment shall not be delivered until the date that the Participant incurs a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code (or, if the Participant is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, the date that is six months following the date of such "separation from service"). If the Company determines after the Grant Date that an amendment to this Agreement is necessary to ensure the foregoing, it may, notwithstanding Section 14, make such an amendment, effective as of the Grant Date or any later date, without the consent of the Participant. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement or the Plan, in the event that any taxes or penalties are imposed on the Participant by reason of Section 409A of the Code, the Participant acknowledges and agrees that such taxes or penalties shall be the exclusive obligation of the Participant, and the Company shall have no liability therefor.
Section 409A of the Code
16. . The headings of Sections herein are included solely for convenience of reference and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Headings
17. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, which together shall constitute one and the same original.
Counterparts
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, as of the date first above written, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by a duly authorized officer and the Participant has hereunto set the Participant's hand.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEW YORK, July 1, 2009  Assurant, Inc. ("Assurant") (NYSE: AIZ), a premier provider of specialty insurance and insurance-related products and services, today announces the appointment of Lawrence V. Jackson, former president and chief executive officer, global procurement division, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ("Wal-Mart"), to its board of directors, effective July 1, 2009.
"Lawrence Jackson is a highly respected executive who brings nearly 30 years of management experience to the Assurant board of directors," says Robert B. Pollock, Assurant's president and chief executive officer. "His senior leadership roles with some of the world's biggest and best known consumer-based companies make him a valued new advisor, as we continue to build upon our diversified, specialty insurance strategy."
Jackson, 55, currently serves as senior advisor with New Mountain Capital, LLC, a private equity fund based in New York. When he served as president and chief executive officer of Wal-Mart's global procurement division, he oversaw sourcing and purchasing of merchandise including quality and ethical sourcing in 28 countries. While with the retail giant, he also served as executive vice president, people division, where he oversaw all aspects of human resources for 1.7 million employees.
Previously in his career, Jackson was president and chief operating officer of Dollar General Corporation, where he managed all aspects of store operations, merchandising, new store development and supply-chain logistics. He also served as senior vice president, supply operations, for Safeway, Inc. Prior to those positions, Jackson had been with PepsiCo, Inc. for 16 years including serving as senior vice president, worldwide operations, PepsiCo Food Systems, Inc., with responsibility for significant aspects of the company's food service business.
His current board affiliations include Parsons Corporation, where he also serves as chair of the compensation committee and member of the executive committee, ProLogis and OAKLEAF Waste Management, LLC.
A resident of Nashville, Jackson earned a bachelor's degree from Harvard College and a master of business administration degree from Harvard Business School.
In addition to Jackson, the other current members of Assurant's board are: Dr. John M. Palms, chairman of the board of directors of Assurant and a distinguished university professor emeritus and president emeritus of the University of South Carolina; Dr. Robert J. Blendon, professor of health policy at Harvard University's School of Public Health and professor of political analysis at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government; Beth L. Bronner, managing director of Mistral Equity Partners; Howard L. Carver, retired office managing partner of Ernst & Young LLP; Juan N. Cento, president, Latin American and Caribbean Division, FedEx Express; Allen R. Freedman, owner and principal of arfreedman&co., and former chairman and chief executive officer of Fortis, Inc. (predecessor to Assurant); David B. Kelso, financial advisor for Kelso Advisory Services; Charles J. Koch, former chairman, president and chief executive officer of Charter One Financial, Inc.; H. Carroll Mackin, principal owner of Great Northern Manufacturing, LLC and former executive vice president and treasurer of Fortis, Inc. (predecessor to Assurant); Elaine D. Rosen, chair of the board of the Kresge Foundation and former president of Unum Life Insurance Company of America; and Robert B. Pollock, president and chief executive officer of Assurant.
Assurant is a premier provider of specialized insurance products and related services in North America and selected international markets. Its four key businesses  Assurant Solutions, Assurant Specialty Property, Assurant Health, and Assurant Employee Benefits  have partnered with clients who are leaders in their industries and have built leadership positions in a number of specialty insurance market segments worldwide.
Assurant, a Fortune 500 company and a member of the S&P 500, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AIZ. Assurant has more than $23 billion in assets and $8 billion in annual revenue.
 


