FILE:AIZ/AIZ-8K-20091221084907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation Under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
On December 18, 2009, Assurant, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a three-year unsecured revolving credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with certain lenders party thereto; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent; and Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agent. The Credit Agreement replaces the Company's prior five-year $500 million revolving credit facility, entered into on April 29, 2005 and previously disclosed in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 3, 2005. The prior revolving credit facility was scheduled to expire in April 2010, but terminated upon the effectiveness of the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement, which expires in December 2012, provides for revolving loans and the issuance of multi-bank, syndicated letters of credit and/or letters of credit from a sole issuing bank in an aggregate amount of $350 million. The proceeds of these loans may be used for the Company's commercial paper program or for general corporate purposes. The Company may increase the total amount available under the Credit Agreement to $525 million subject to certain conditions.
The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default. An event of default would cause the unpaid principal and accrued interest and all other obligations under the Credit Agreement to become immediately due and payable.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 21, 2009
 


