FILE:AIZ/AIZ-8K-20100324084841.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On March 19, 2010, Dr. Robert Blendon resigned from the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Assurant, Inc. (the "Company") for personal reasons. On March 22, 2010, the Board appointed Dr. John M. Palms to replace Dr. Blendon as Chair of its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, effective as of that date.
The Company issued a news release today regarding Dr. Blendon's resignation. The text of the news release is incorporated by reference herein and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 24, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
NEW YORK, March 24, 2010  Assurant, Inc. ("Assurant") (NYSE: AIZ), a premier provider of specialty insurance and insurance-related products and services, announces that Dr. Robert J. Blendon, Sc.D., resigned from its Board of Directors, effective March 19, 2010.
"We thank Bob for the many contributions he has made as a member of the Assurant Board of Directors, and wish him well in his expanding role at Harvard University's School of Public Health and Kennedy School of Government," said Robert B. Pollock, president and CEO.
On March 22, 2010, the company's Board of Directors appointed John M. Palms to replace Dr. Blendon as Chair of its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, effective as of that date.
Assurant is a premier provider of specialized insurance products and related services in North America and select worldwide markets. Its four key businesses  Assurant Solutions, Assurant Specialty Property, Assurant Health, and Assurant Employee Benefits  partner with clients who are leaders in their industries and have built leadership positions in a number of specialty insurance market segments worldwide.
Assurant, a Fortune 500 company and a member of the S&P 500, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AIZ. Assurant has more than $25 billion in assets and $8 billion in annual revenue.
www.assurant.com
 


