FILE:AIZ/AIZ-8K-20100512171121.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
(d)    On May 7, 2010, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Assurant, Inc. (the "Company") elected John A.C. Swainson to the Board. Mr. Swainson's election is effective as of May 14, 2010. Mr. Swainson has not yet been named to serve on any committee of the Board. Upon the appointment of Mr. Swainson to a committee of the Board, the Company will file an amended Current Report on Form 8-K with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Swainson and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Swainson was elected as a director.
As compensation for his service as a director, Mr. Swainson will receive annual retainers and per-meeting fees in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Assurant Amended and Restated Directors Compensation Plan, appended as Exhibit 10.25 to the Company's 2009 Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 25, 2010 (the "Directors Compensation Plan"). Consistent with the terms of the Direct ors Compensation Plan, Mr. Swainson will also receive an annual grant of restricted stock units with a grant date fair market value of $80,000 pursuant to the Assurant, Inc. Long Term Equity Incentive Plan, the terms and conditions of which will be governed by an agreement substantially in the form of the Assurant, Inc. Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for Time Based Awards for Directors, appended as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on May 5, 2010.
In connection with Mr. Swainson's election, the Company issued a news release on May 12, 2010. The text of the news release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1            News Release dated May 12, 2010.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Assurant Announces Appointment of John A.C. Swainson to Board of Directors
NEW YORK, May 12, 2010 -- Assurant, Inc. ("Assurant") (NYSE: AIZ), a premier provider of specialty insurance and insurance-related products and services, announces the appointment of John A.C. Swainson, retired Chief Executive Officer of CA, Inc., to its Board of Directors, effective May 14, 2010.
"John Swainson is a highly regarded executive who brings more than 30 years of technology expertise and leadership experience to the Assurant Board of Directors," says Robert B. Pollock, Assurant's president and chief executive officer. "An outstanding career at IBM and top positions at CA, Inc. combine to make John a helpful new advisor as we continue to grow Assurant's diversified, specialty insurance strategy."
Swainson, 55, currently serves on the Boards of Visa Inc. and Cadence Design Systems Inc.
A resident of Ridgefield, Conn., Swainson earned a bachelor's degree from the University of British Columbia with a degree in engineering.
Assurant is a premier provider of specialized insurance products and related services in North America and select worldwide markets. Its four key businesses -- Assurant Solutions, Assurant Specialty Property, Assurant Health, and Assurant Employee Benefits -- partner with clients who are leaders in their industries and have built leadership positions in a number of specialty insurance market segments in the United States and select worldwide markets.
Assurant, a Fortune 500 company and a member of the S&P 500, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AIZ. Assurant has more than $26 billion in assets and $8 billion in annual revenue. www.assurant.com


