FILE:AIZ/AIZ-8K-20100121160125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 21, 2010, Assurant, Inc. (the "Company") announced that it has entered into a settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") that concludes the previously disclosed investigation by the SEC into a finite reinsurance arrangement entered into by the Company. A copy of the Company's news release regarding the settlement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 21, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Assurant, Inc. ("Assurant") (NYSE: AIZ), a premier provider of specialty insurance and insurance-related products and services, announced today that it has entered into a settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") that concludes the SEC's finite reinsurance investigation of Assurant.
NEW YORK, Jan. 21, 2010
The SEC made no allegation of fraud on Assurant's part. Rather, the SEC alleges that, in connection with its accounting for a recovery under a catastrophe reinsurance arrangement that expired in 2004, the Company violated certain non-fraud-related sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Assurant neither admits nor denies the SEC's allegations.
"We are pleased to have the matter resolved and we look forward to continuing to serve our clients and delivering value for all Assurant stakeholders," said Robert B. Pollock, Assurant's president and chief executive officer. "With this matter concluded, we expect to renew our share repurchase program after our full-year 2009 earnings announcement next month."
The SEC staff has informed the Company that it does not intend to pursue any charges or other action against any current executives of Assurant. The Company believes it also is unlikely that the SEC will pursue any charges or actions against former employees who received Wells notices in 2007.
Assurant agreed to the entry of a judgment requiring payment of a civil penalty of $3.5 million and enjoining the Company from violating certain provisions of the federal securities laws. The charge will be reflected in the Company's fourth quarter 2009 financial results. The settlement is subject to court approval.
Assurant is a premier provider of specialized insurance products and related services in North America and select worldwide markets. Its four key businesses  Assurant Solutions, Assurant Specialty Property, Assurant Health, and Assurant Employee Benefits  partner with clients who are leaders in their industries and have built leadership positions in a number of specialty insurance market segments worldwide.
Assurant, a Fortune 500 company and a member of the S&P 500, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AIZ. Assurant has over $25 billion in assets and $8 billion in annual revenue.
www.assurant.com
 


