FILE:AIZ/AIZ-8K-20110602085200.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assurant, Inc. (the "Company") has updated its estimate of catastrophe incurred losses for the months of April and May, which it now believes to be in the range of $65 million to $75 million, pre-tax and net of reinsurance. This amount includes the April catastrophe losses previously reported in the April 28, 2011 first quarter earnings call. This includes only individual catastrophic events identified by Insurance Services Office, Inc. (ISO) that generate losses to the Company in excess of $5 million pre-tax, net of reinsurance ("reportable catastrophe losses").
April and May losses included several events encompassing hail, tornadoes, wind, and flood storms throughout the Southeast and Midwest United States.
Actual reportable catastrophe losses for the quarter will be reported with the second quarter 2011 earnings release scheduled for July 27, after 4:00 p.m. ET.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT - Some of the statements included in this Form 8-K, particularly estimated catastrophe incurred losses, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on management's best estimates, assumptions and projections and are subject to significant uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this Form 8-K as a result of new information or future events or developments. For a detailed discussion of the general risk factors that could affect the Company's results, please refer to the risk factors identified in the Company's annual and periodic reports, including but not limited to its 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 2, 2011


