FILE:AIZ/AIZ-8K-20110707165236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
(d) On July 6, 2011, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Assurant, Inc. (the "Company") elected Elyse Douglas to the Board and appointed her to the Finance and Investment Committee of the Board, effective immediately. There are no arrangements or understandings between Ms. Douglas and any other person pursuant to which Ms. Douglas was elected a director.
As compensation for her service as a director, Ms. Douglas will receive annual retainers in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Assurant, Inc. Amended and Restated Directors Compensation Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.25 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on February 23, 2011 (the "Directors Compensation Plan"). Consistent with the terms of the Directors Compensation Plan, Ms. Douglas will also receive an annual grant, pursuant to the Amended and Restated Assurant, Inc. Long Term Equity Incentive Plan, of restricted stock units with a grant date fair market value of $80,000. The terms and conditions of this grant will be governed by an agreement substantially in the form of the Assurant, Inc. Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for Time-Based Awards for Directors attached as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on June 14, 2011.
In connection with Ms. Douglas' election, the Company issued a news release on July 7, 2011. The text of the news release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1 News Release, dated July 7, 2011.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

NEW YORK, July 7, 2011
-- Assurant, Inc. (NYSE: AIZ), a premier provider of specialty insurance and insurance-related products and services, announces the appointment of Elyse Douglas, 55, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Hertz Global Holdings Inc. and The Hertz Corporation, to its Board of Directors, effective July 6, 2011.
"Elyse Douglas is a seasoned financial executive with an impressive array of leadership experiences at several highly recognized, consumer-driven companies," said Elaine D. Rosen, the chair of Assurant's Board. "Her extensive understanding of multiple industries with worldwide operations will be a strong asset to our Board of Directors."
Prior to joining Hertz, Douglas held financial positions at Coty Inc., Nabisco Inc. and Chase Manhattan Bank (now JPMorgan Chase). A resident of New York City, Douglas earned a bachelor's degree in accounting from Villanova University and a Master of Business Administration in finance from New York University. She is a Certified Public Accountant and earned her Chartered Financial Analyst designation in 1996.
In additional action, the Assurant Board named Elyse Douglas to its Finance and Investment Committee and Paul J. Reilly, who was appointed to the Assurant Board on June 15, 2011, to its Audit Committee.
Assurant is a premier provider of specialized insurance products and related services in North America and select worldwide markets. Assurant, a Fortune 500 company and a member of the S&P 500, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AIZ. Assurant has approximately $27 billion in assets and $8 billion in annual revenue. www.assurant.com


