FILE:AIZ/AIZ-8K-20120725163226.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 25, 2012, Assurant, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. The text of the press release, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference into this Item. The press release is furnished and not filed pursuant to General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K.
 
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assurant, Inc. (NYSE: AIZ), a premier provider of specialty insurance and insurance-related products and services, today reported results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2012.
NEW YORK, July 25, 2012 
"Assurant's disciplined actions are generating solid results as we focus on areas targeted for profitable growth," said Robert B. Pollock, president and CEO of Assurant. "We are meeting the challenges of today's marketplace as we provide outstanding service for consumers and clients alike while creating long-term value for our shareholders."
Second Quarter 2012 Consolidated Results
 
 
 
 
Assurant, Inc. / 2
 
Reconciliation of Net Operating Income to Net Income
 
Note: Additional financial information, including a schedule of disclosed items that affected Assurant's results by business for the last six quarters (page 20), is available in the Company's Financial Supplement, located in the Investor Relations section of www.assurant.com.
Assurant Solutions
 
 
 
 
 
Assurant, Inc. / 3
 
Assurant Specialty Property
 
 
 
 
Assurant Health
 
 
 
Assurant Employee Benefits
 
 
 
Assurant, Inc. / 4
 
Corporate & Other
 
 
Capital Position
 
 
Financial Position
 
 
 
 
Other Items
 
Assurant, Inc. / 5
 
Company Outlook
Based on current market conditions for full-year 2012, the Company now expects:
 
Consistent with the first quarter 2012 outlook and based on current market conditions for full-year 2012, the Company continues to expect:
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings Conference Call
 
About Assurant
Assurant is a premier provider of specialized insurance products and related services in North America and select worldwide markets. The four key businesses  Assurant Solutions, Assurant Specialty Property, Assurant Health and Assurant Employee Benefits  partner with clients who are leaders in their industries and build leadership positions in a number of specialty insurance market segments. Assurant provides debt protection administration; credit-related insurance; warranties and service contracts; pre-funded funeral insurance; solar project insurance; lender-placed homeowners insurance; manufactured housing homeowners insurance; individual health and small employer group health insurance; group dental insurance; group disability insurance; and group life insurance.
Assurant, Inc. / 6
 
Assurant, a Fortune 500 company and a member of the S&P 500, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AIZ. Assurant has approximately $27 billion in assets and $8 billion in annual revenue. Assurant has approximately 14,000 employees worldwide and is headquartered in New York's financial district. .
www.assurant.com
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Some of the statements included in this news release and its exhibits, particularly those anticipating future financial performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies and similar matters, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by the fact that they may use words such as "will," "anticipate," "expect," "estimate," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target," "forecast," or the negative versions of those words and terms with a similar meaning. Our actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this earnings release or the exhibits as a result of new information or future events or developments.
The following risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those currently estimated by management, including those projected in the Company outlook:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assurant, Inc. / 7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a detailed discussion of the risk factors that could affect our actual results, please refer to the risk factors identified in our SEC reports, including, but not limited to, our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Assurant uses the following non-GAAP financial measures to analyze the Company's operating performance for the periods presented in this news release. Because Assurant's calculation of these measures may differ from similar measures used by other companies, investors should be careful when comparing Assurant's non-GAAP financial measures to those of other companies.
 
 
Assurant, Inc. / 8
 
 
 
 
 
A summary of net operating income disclosed items is included on page 20 of the Company's Financial Supplement, which is available in the Investor Relations section of www.assurant.com.
Assurant, Inc. / 9
 
Assurant, Inc.
Consolidated Statement of Operations (unaudited)
Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2012 and 2011
 
Assurant, Inc. / 10
 
Assurant, Inc.
Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets (unaudited)
At June 30, 2012 and Dec. 31, 2011
 


