ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity and capital resources as of and for the year ended December 31, 2003. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes presented on pages F 1 to F 55 of this Form 10 K. Overview ACE Limited (ACE) is the Bermuda based holding company of the ACE Group of Companies incorporated with limited liability under the Cayman Islands Companies Law. We created our business office in Bermuda in 1985 when we initially incorporated the Company and we continue to maintain our business office in Bermuda. Through our various operating subsidiaries, we provide a broad range of insurance and reinsurance products to insureds worldwide through operations in the U.S. and almost 50 other countries. Our long term business strategy focuses on achieving underwriting income and providing value to our clients and shareholders through the utilization of our substantial capital base in the insurance and reinsurance markets. As an insurance and reinsurance company, we generate gross revenues from two principal sources, premiums which are usually paid in advance of loss payments, and dividends and interest income earned on invested assets. Cash flow is generated from premiums collected and investment income received less paid losses and loss expenses. Generally when an insurance company writing long tail business grows, as ACE has in 2003, its cash flows tend to be positive. ACE generated approximately $4.2 billion in positive operating cash flow in 2003 while cash and invested assets over this period increased by $5.3 billion. Invested assets are generally held in liquid, investment grade fixed income securities of relatively short duration. We also invest a small portion of our assets in less liquid or higher risk assets in an attempt to achieve higher returns. Claims payments in any short term period are highly unpredictable due to the random nature of loss events and the timing of claims awards or settlements. The value of investments held to pay future claims is subject to market forces such as the level of interest rates, stock market volatility and credit events such as corporate defaults. The actual cost of claims is also volatile based on loss trends, inflation rates, court awards and catastrophic events. We believe that our cash balances, our highly liquid investments, credit facilities and reinsurance protection provide sufficient liquidity to meet any unforeseen claim demands that might occur in the year ahead. The insurance industry is highly competitive with many companies offering similar coverage. Following two years of sharply rising prices, property insurance rates have leveled off or have declined slightly. The global property catastrophe reinsurance market has also softened with adequate capacity available for good risks. In other lines with rising loss costs, such as casualty and liability lines, or directors and officers liability insurance, rates have continued to increase and terms and conditions have remained restrictive. Overall we believe that current rate levels are adequate for most of the risks seeking coverage and that favorable industry conditions should persist through the balance of 2004. Several industry trends are noteworthy, first, favorable capital markets have facilitated the formation of several important new companies anxious to deploy their capital resources. New companies have become a significant factor in providing adequate insurance and reinsurance capacity and a moderating factor with regard to rising premium rates. Second, older companies with legacy issues such as asbestos or excess liability reserves have experienced adverse development from prior years unpaid claims. This has kept rates as well as terms and conditions from weakening. Third, interest rates are at historically low levels requiring companies to look to underwriting profitability as their main source of income. Fourth, the rating agencies have generally operated with a negative bias toward the insurance industry, effectively downgrading nearly all reinsurance industry leaders and reducing ratings on numerous primary insurers. This has put pressure on certain major companies to reduce leverage and risk. 27 Table of Contents In this competitive environment, ACE has maintained its strong financial rating and global infrastructure permitting it to write a considerable volume of new and renewable insurance business at favorable rates. On March 8, 2004, Assured Guaranty, formerly AGC Holdings, filed an amendment to the registration statement filed on December 23, 2003 on Form S 1 for an initial public offering (IPO). Assured Guaranty is a wholly owned subsidiary of ACE Limited. Upon completion of the IPO, Assured Guaranty will be the holding company for the operating units now known as ACE Guaranty Corp. and ACE Capital Re International. These two units form part of the Financial Services segment. We expect to retain as much as 25 35 percent of our interest in Assured Guaranty depending on market conditions. We believe this transaction will allow us to allocate more capital to our P&C business and further strengthen our balance sheet. Our website, under the Investor Information tab, has a link to the Form S 1 as filed with the SEC. We are closely following developments on possible legislation to move all U.S. asbestos bodily injury claims to a federal trust for compensation in accordance with an established set of medical criteria and claim values. The trust would be funded by asbestos defendants and their insurers. As currently proposed, ACE would be one of the insurer participants. We believe that if the proposed legislation is enacted, our ultimate funding obligation under the trust would be less than we would be required to pay under the current tort system because the trust would likely avoid payments to unimpaired victims and obviate the need for extensive legal costs. However, we cannot predict if any such proposed legislation will be modified or adopted. Critical Accounting Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements include amounts that, either by their nature or due to requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), are determined using best estimates and assumptions. While we believe that the amounts included in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect our best judgment, actual amounts could ultimately materially differ from those currently presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe the items that require the most subjective and complex estimates are: unpaid losses and loss expense reserves, including asbestos reserves; reinsurance recoverable, including our bad debt provision; impairments to the carrying value of our investment portfolio; the valuation of our deferred tax assets; the fair value of certain derivatives; and the valuation of goodwill. We believe our accounting policies for these items are of critical importance to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion provides more information regarding the estimates and assumptions required to arrive at these amounts and should be read in conjunction with the sections entitled: Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses, Asbestos and Environmental Claims, Reinsurance, Investments and Cash, Net Realized Gains (Losses) and Other Income and Expense Items. Unpaid losses and loss expenses As an insurance and reinsurance company, we are required, under GAAP, to establish loss reserves for the estimated unpaid portion of the ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses under the terms of our policies and agreements with our insured and reinsured customers. These reserves include estimates for both claims that have been reported and those that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR), and include estimates of expenses associated with processing and settling these claims. At December 31, 2003, the unpaid losses and loss expense reserve was $27.1 billion. Our P&C loss reserves are not discounted. The process of establishing reserves for property and casualty (P&C) claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments are based on numerous factors, and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methodologies are developed or as current laws change. We have actuarial staff in each of our operating segments who track insurance reserves and regularly evaluate the levels of loss reserves, taking into consideration factors that may impact the ultimate loss reserves. The potential for variation in loss reserves is impacted by numerous factors, which we explain below. We estimate loss reserves for all insurance and reinsurance business we write. In most cases, we do not have all the necessary information to determine the ultimate settlement value for a claim at the time we are required to accrue for the loss. As a result, historical experience and other statistical information are used to estimate the ultimate cost of the loss, depending on the type of business. To 28 Table of Contents determine carried reserves for a particular line of business, we may perform one or more reserving methods to estimate ultimate losses and loss expenses and use the results to select a single point estimate. These methods may include, but are not necessarily limited to, extrapolations of our historical reported and paid loss data, application of industry loss development patterns to our reported or paid losses, expected loss ratios developed by management, or historical industry loss ratios. Underlying judgments and assumptions that may be incorporated into these actuarial methods include, but are not necessarily limited to, adjustments to historical data used in models to exclude aberrations in claims data such as catastrophes that are typically analyzed separately, application of tail factors used to project ultimate claims from historical loss experience when there are several data points to use, adjustments to actuarial models and related data for known business changes, such as changes in claims covered under insurance contracts, and the effect of recent or pending litigation on future claim settlements. For each of our lines of business, management, in conjunction with internal actuaries, develop their best estimate of ultimate liabilities, which they believe provide a reasonable estimate of the required reserve. We utilize one set of assumptions in determining a single point estimate. We do not calculate a range of loss reserve estimates. Actuarial ranges are not a true reflection of the potential volatility between loss reserves estimated at the balance sheet date and the ultimate settlement of losses. This is due to the fact that an actuarial range is developed based on known events as of the valuation date whereas actual volatility or prior period development has historically occurred in subsequent Consolidated Financial Statements in part from events and circumstances that were unknown as of the original valuation date. Since the ACE INA acquisition in 1999, our consolidated reserve for losses and loss expenses, net of reinsurance, reported at each year end has developed by as much as ten percent (four percent excluding asbestos and environmental reserve strengthening), although ultimate loss reserve development could be higher. See the Analysis of Losses and Loss Expense Development for a summary of historical volatility between estimated loss reserves and ultimate loss settlements. The Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses section below includes a discussion of our reserve setting procedures by segment. The following is a discussion of specific reserving considerations by type of claim: Short Tail Business, such as Property Coverages Short tail business describes lines of business for which losses are usually known and paid shortly after the loss actually occurs. This would include, for example, most property, personal accident, aviation hull and automobile physical damage policies that are written. Typically, there is less variability in these lines of business. Long Tail Business, such as Casualty Coverages Long tail business describes lines of business for which specific losses may not be known for some period and losses take much longer to emerge. This includes most casualty lines such as general liability, directors and officers liability (D&O) and workers compensation. Within our general insurance business, long tail casualty business has been increasing and for the year ended December 31, 2003 comprises approximately 43 percent of net premiums earned. There are many factors contributing to the uncertainty and volatility of long tail business. Among these are: Given the recent expansion of this business, historical experience is often too immature to place reliance upon for reserving purposes. Instead, particularly for newer lines of business, reserve methods are based on industry loss ratios or development patterns that reflect the nature and coverage of the underwritten business and its future development. For new or growing lines of business, actual loss experience is apt to differ from industry loss statistics that are based on averages as well as loss experience of previous underwriting years; The inherent uncertainty of the length of paid and reporting development patterns; The possibility of future litigation, legislative or judicial change that might impact future loss experience relative to prior loss experience relied upon in loss reserve analyses; and Loss reserve analyses typically require loss or other data be grouped by common characteristics. If data from two combined lines of business exhibit different characteristics, such as loss payment patterns, the credibility of the reserve estimate could be affected. Because casualty lines of business can have various intricacies in their underlying coverage, there is an inherent risk as to the homogeneity of the underlying data used in performing reserve analyses. At December 31, 2003, approximately 83 percent of our reserves (78 percent excluding asbestos and environmental reserves) relate to long tail business. The estimation of unpaid losses and loss expense reserves can also be affected by the layer at which a particular contract or set of contracts is written. In the case of direct insurance, where the insurer is taking on risk in the lower value end of the particular contract, the experience will tend to be more frequency driven. These lines of business allow for more traditional actuarial 29 Table of Contents methods to be used in determining loss reserve levels, as it is customary to have more historical experience to rely upon. In the case of excess contracts, the experience will tend to be more of a severity nature, as only a significant loss will enter the layer. For structured or unique contracts, most common to the financial solutions business and to a lesser extent our reinsurance business, traditional actuarial methods for setting loss reserves (such as loss development triangles), have to be tempered with an analysis of each contracts terms, original pricing information, subsequent internal and external analyses of the ongoing contracts, market exposures and history and qualitative input from claims managers. Asbestos and Environmental Reserves (A&E) Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are liabilities for asbestos, environmental and latent injury damage claims and expenses (A&E). These claims are principally related to claims arising from remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites and bodily injury claims related to exposure to asbestos products and environmental hazards. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to the recent legal environment, including specific settlements that may be used as precedents to settle future claims. In establishing A&E reserves for periods prior to the fourth quarter of 2002, we assumed that significant additional state judicial or legislative reform would substantially eliminate payments to future claimants who are not physically impaired. In January 2003, we announced additions to our fourth quarter 2002 A&E reserves based on the more conservative assumption that there will be no future state or federal asbestos reform. Therefore, our A&E reserves do not reflect any anticipated changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. The vast majority of our reserve increase in the fourth quarter of 2002 is due to the strengthening of the IBNR provision for peripheral defendants and future increases in severity. We believe the most significant variables relating to our A&E reserves include assumptions with respect to payments to unimpaired claimants and the liability of peripheral defendants. In establishing our A&E reserves, we consider multiple recoveries by claimants against various defendants; the ability of a claimant to bring a claim in a state in which they have no residency or exposure; the ability of a policyholder to claim the right to non products coverage; and whether high level excess policies have the potential to be accessed given the policyholders claim trends and liability situation. The results in asbestos cases announced by other carriers may well have little or no relevance to us because other coverage exposures are highly dependent upon the specific facts of individual coverage and resolution status of disputes among carrier, policyholder and claimants. Based on the policies, the facts, the law and a careful analysis of the impact that these risk factors will likely have on any given account, we estimate the potential liability for indemnity, policyholder defense costs and coverage litigation expense. There are many complex variables that we consider when estimating the reserves for our inventory of asbestos accounts. The variables involved may directly impact the predicted outcome. Sometimes, the outcomes change significantly based on a small change in one risk factor related to just one account. Reinsurance recoverable The recognition of reinsurance recoverable requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves our estimation of the amount of gross IBNR to be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR is generally developed as part of our loss reserving process and consequently, its estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross IBNR (see Critical Accounting Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses). The second judgment involves our estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that we will ultimately be unable to recover from related reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a bad debt provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable balance and shareholders equity. Changes in the bad debt provision are reflected in net income. At December 31, 2003, the reinsurance recoverable balance includes $13.7 billion of reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, less a provision for bad debts of $557 million. The unpaid recoverable consist of ceded IBNR of $7.3 billion and ceded case reserves of $5.9 billion. Also included are $1.3 billion of reinsurance recoverable on paid loss and loss adjustment expenses, less a provision for bad debts of $403 million. Although the contractual obligation of individual reinsurers to pay their reinsurance obligations is based on specific contract provisions, the collectibility of such amounts requires significant estimation by management. The majority of the balance we have accrued as recoverable will not be due for collection until sometime in the future (in some cases several decades from now). Over this period of time, economic conditions and operational performance of a particular reinsurer may impact their ability to meet these obligations and 30 Table of Contents while they may continue to acknowledge their contractual obligation to do so, they may not have the financial resources or willingness to fully meet their obligation to us. To estimate the bad debt provision, the reinsurance recoverable must first be allocated to applicable reinsurers. This determination is based on a process rather than an estimate, although an element of judgment must be applied. As part of this process, ceded IBNR is allocated by reinsurer. The allocations are generally based on historical relationships between gross and ceded losses. If actual experience varies materially from historical experience, the allocation of reinsurance recoverable by reinsurer will change. While such change is unlikely to result in a large percentage change in the bad debt provision, it could, nevertheless, have a material effect on our net income in the period recorded. We use a default analysis and, to a lesser extent, actual collection experience to estimate uncollectible reinsurance. The primary components of the default analysis are reinsurance recoverable balances by reinsurer, net of collateral, and default factors used to determine the portion of a reinsurers balance deemed uncollectible. The definition of collateral for this purpose requires some judgment and is generally limited to assets held in trust, letters of credit, and liabilities held by us with the same legal entity for which we believe there is a right of offset. Default factors require considerable judgment and are determined using the current rating, or rating equivalent, of each reinsurer as well as other key considerations and assumptions. The more significant considerations include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: historical industry default statistics for the reinsurers current ratings class, the actual collection experience of the reinsurer, collateral triggers or other contractual provisions that may mitigate default exposure, and the dates the balances will likely become due (duration). For recoverable balances considered representative of the larger population (i.e., default probabilities are consistent with similarly rated reinsurers and payment durations conform to averages), management generally applies industry default factors consistent with the reinsurers particular rating class. Such factors have been developed by a major ratings agency; for recoverable balances that are both unrated by a major rating agency and for which management is unable to determine a credible rating equivalent based on a parent, affiliate, peer company, or internal analysis, additional judgment is required to determine a reasonable default factor. Based on certain industry benchmarks, management generally uses a default factor approximating 24 percent for such balances; and for insolvent insurers, management develops default factors based on an evaluation of each of the insolvent entities. At December 31, 2003, the use of different assumptions within the model could have a material effect on the bad debt provision reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent the creditworthiness of our reinsurers was to deteriorate due to an adverse event affecting the reinsurance industry, such as a large number of major catastrophes, actual uncollectible amounts could be significantly greater than our bad debt provision. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and our liquidity. Given the various considerations used to develop default factors, we cannot precisely quantify the effect a specific industry event may have on the bad debt provision. However, based on the composition (particularly the average credit quality) of the reinsurance recoverable balance at December 31, 2003, we estimate that a ratings downgrade of one notch (for example from A to A ) for all rated reinsurers could increase our bad debt provision by as much as 15 percent, assuming no other changes relevant to the calculation. While a rating downgrade would result in an increase in our provision for bad debt and a charge to earnings in that period, a downgrade in and of itself does not imply that we will not ultimately collect all of the ceded reinsurance recoverable from the reinsurers in question. Additional information on reinsurance recoverable can be found in the section entitled Reinsurance. Investments We record all investments in our portfolio at fair value, being the quoted market price of these securities provided by either independent pricing services, or when such prices are not available, by reference to broker or underwriter bid indications. We regularly review our investments for possible impairment. If there is a decline in a securitys net realizable value, we must determine whether that decline is temporary or other than temporary. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record the decline as an unrealized loss in our shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the carrying value of the investment and record a realized loss in our consolidated statement of operations. The determination as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary principally requires the following critical judgments: i) the circumstances that require management to 31 Table of Contents make a specific assessment as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary, such as the time period an investment has been in a loss position and the significance of the decline; and ii) for those securities to be assessed, whether we have the ability and intent to hold the security through an expected recovery period, absent a significant change in facts that is expected to have a material adverse effect on either the financial markets or the financial position of the issuer. With respect to securities where the decline in value is determined to be temporary and the securitys value is not written down, a subsequent decision may be made to sell that security and realize a loss. Subsequent decisions on security sales could be made based on changes in liquidity needs (i.e., arising from a large insured loss such as a catastrophe), internal risk management considerations, the financial condition of the issuer or its industry, market conditions, and new investment opportunities. Day to day management of the majority of the Companys investment portfolio is outsourced to third party investment managers. While these investment managers may, at a given point in time, believe that the preferred course of action is to hold securities with unrealized losses until such losses are recovered, the dynamic nature of portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell the security and realize the loss based upon new circumstances such as those related to the changes described above. We believe that subsequent decisions to sell such securities are consistent with the classification of our portfolio as available for sale. Because our investment portfolio is the largest component of consolidated assets and a multiple of shareholders equity, adverse changes in economic conditions subsequent to the balance sheet date could result in other than temporary impairments that are material to the financial condition and operating results of the Company. Such economic changes could arise from overall changes in the financial markets or specific changes to industries, companies, or foreign governments in which the Company maintains relatively large investment holdings. More information regarding our process for reviewing our portfolio for possible impairments can be found in the section entitled Net Realized Gains (Losses). Our exposure to interest rate risk is concentrated in our fixed income portfolio. An increase in interest rates of 50 basis points applied instantly across the yield curve would have resulted in a decrease in the market value of the fixed income portfolio of approximately $347 million at December 31, 2003. An immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario. Deferred Tax Assets We provide for income taxes in accordance with the provisions of FAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (FAS 109). Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized consistent with the asset and liability method required by FAS 109. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities primarily result from temporary differences between the amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities separately for each tax paying component (an individual entity or group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes) in each tax jurisdiction. At December 31, 2003, our net deferred tax asset was $1.1 billion, including $412 million of net operating loss carryforwards, which will expire in the years 2018 2022. (See Note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). At each balance sheet date, management assesses the need to establish a valuation allowance that reduces deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that all, or some portion, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance is based on all available information including projections of future taxable income from each tax paying component in each tax jurisdiction principally derived from business plans, and available tax planning strategies. Projections of future taxable income incorporate several assumptions of future business and operations that are apt to differ from actual experience. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates that resulted in our forecast of future taxable income for each tax paying component proves to be incorrect, an additional valuation allowance could become necessary. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. At December 31, 2003, the valuation allowance of $135.6 million reflects managements assessment, that it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized due to the inability of certain foreign subsidiaries to generate sufficient taxable income. Derivatives We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (FAS 133), as of January 1, 2001. FAS 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. FAS 133 requires that all derivatives be recognized as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and be measured at fair value. We maintain investments in derivative instruments such as futures, options, interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts primarily to manage duration and foreign currency ex 32 Table of Contents posure, enhance our portfolio yield or obtain an exposure to a particular financial market. Open derivatives as of the balance sheet date are reported at fair value based on market quotes or valuations provided to us by third party investment managers using market data. The net fair value related to these instruments at December 31, 2003, was $21 million and is included in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities. Certain products (principally credit protection oriented) issued by the Financial Services segment have been determined to meet the definition of a derivative under FAS 133. These products consist primarily of credit default swaps, index based instruments and certain financial guaranty coverages. We view these products, for which we sell credit protection to others, as an extension of our financial guaranty business but which do not qualify for the financial guaranty insurance scope exception under FAS 133 and therefore are reported at fair value, with changes in fair value included in our earnings. We believe that the most meaningful presentation of these derivatives is to reflect revenue as net premiums earned, and to record estimates of losses and loss expenses on specific credit events as incurred losses. When we determine that a loss on a derivative contract is probable, we establish reserves for the loss. Other changes in fair value are included in realized gains and losses on derivative financial instruments. We generally hold derivative contracts to maturity. Where we hold a derivative to maturity, the cumulative unrealized gains and losses will net to zero if we incur no credit losses on that contract. (See Note 2(o) of the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). The fair value of these instruments depends on a number of factors including credit spreads, changes in interest rates, recovery rates and the credit ratings of referenced entities. Where available, we use quoted market prices to determine the fair value of these insured credit derivatives. If the quoted prices are not available, particularly for senior layer CDOs and equity layer credit protection, the fair value is estimated using valuation models for each type of credit protection. These models may be developed by third parties, such as rating agencies, or internally based on market conventions for similar transactions, depending on the circumstances. These models and the related assumptions are continuously reevaluated by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon improvements in modeling techniques and availability of more timely market information. The majority of our single name credit derivatives are valued using third party market quotes. However, in the event that we terminate a derivative contract prior to maturity, as a result of a decision to exit a line of business or for risk management purposes, the unrealized gain or loss will be realized through premiums earned and losses incurred. Our exposures to CDOs are typically valued using a combination of rating agency models and internally developed models. Valuation models include the use of management estimates and current market information. Management is also required to make assumptions on how the fair value of derivative instruments is affected by current market conditions. Management considers factors such as current prices charged for similar agreements, performance of underlying assets, and our ability to obtain reinsurance for our insured obligations. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the assumptions used in the valuation models to determine the fair value of these derivative products, actual experience may differ from the estimates reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements, and the differences may be material. Fair value adjustments attributed to derivative transactions, principally credit derivatives, are included in our net realized gains (losses). We recorded a gain of $163 million and losses of $77 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. The change in fair value is due to many factors but primarily due to a change in credit spreads. For example, the 2003 gain corresponds to an approximately 60 65 percent tightening in investment grade corporate spreads and the 2002 loss corresponds to an approximate 20 25 percent widening. Depending on our ultimate percentage holding of Assured Guaranty after the planned IPO and changes in Assured Guarantys credit derivatives business after the IPO, the relationship between changes in corporate credit spreads and changes in the fair value of credit derivatives affecting our net income is apt to differ from historical results. Given these variables, the sensitivity of our future net income to changes in credit spreads is difficult to quantify at this time; however, we anticipate that after the completion of the planned IPO such sensitivity will be reduced relative to 2003. In addition to credit derivatives, through the Financial Services segment, we have entered into a few other, relatively illiquid, index based derivative instruments that are reported at fair value. These instruments are principally linked to equity and real estate market indices. The determination of fair value for these derivatives requires considerable judgment as there is limited ability to trade the contracts since they are uniquely structured and the exposure period covers up to 30 years. 33 Table of Contents Valuation of Goodwill Goodwill, which represents the excess of the cost of our acquisitions over the tangible net assets we acquired, was $2.7 billion at December 31, 2003. The ACE INA acquisition comprises approximately 79 percent of this balance. In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FAS 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, which primarily addresses accounting for goodwill and intangible assets subsequent to their acquisition. Under FAS 142, goodwill is no longer amortized to income but instead, is subject to annual impairment tests. At January 1, 2002, the initial adoption date of FAS 142, and January 1, 2003, goodwill was assigned to the applicable reporting units of the acquired entities giving rise to goodwill. Our reporting units for purposes of impairment testing are primarily based on legal entities within our operating segments. The allocation of goodwill to these reporting units is consistent with goodwill recognized at acquisition. In effect, impairment tests are performed for each acquired entity giving rise to goodwill. The most significant reporting units are the domestic and international divisions of ACE INA which were acquired in 1999, ACE Tempest Re acquired in 1996, Tarquin Limited acquired in 1998 and Capital Re Corporation acquired in 1999. There are other reporting units that resulted from smaller acquisitions that are also assessed annually. The transitional impairment test of goodwill determined that there was no impairment in goodwill in 2002. In our impairment tests, we principally use both an earnings model, that includes relevant financial data of comparable companies to the reporting unit being tested, such as the relationship of price to book value for recent transactions and market valuations of publicly traded companies, and an estimation of fair value based on present value of estimated net cash flows. We must assess whether the current fair value of our operating units is at least equal to the fair value used in the determination of goodwill. In doing this, we make assumptions and estimates about the profitability attributable to our operating segments, as this is important in assessing whether an impairment has occurred. As part of our ongoing management assessments, we regularly analyze our operating companies in an effort to maximize future cash flows and profitability. As a result of that review, updated forecasts supported indications that two relatively small majority owned companies would not, under current market conditions, achieve sufficient contract sales volumes to generate and sustain future profitable results. As a consequence of these revised expectations, we recognized a goodwill impairment loss of $6 million during the first quarter of 2003. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates made in assessing the fair value of acquired entities prove to be incorrect, goodwill carried on our balance sheet could be materially overstated. This would cause us to write down the carrying value of goodwill, resulting in a charge to earnings in the period recorded. Accordingly, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Results of Operations Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 The discussions that follow include tables, which show both our consolidated and segment operating results for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. In presenting our operating results, we have discussed our performance with reference to underwriting results and with reference to income excluding net realized gains (losses) and the related income tax, which are both non GAAP measures. Our consolidated and segment operating results below provide a reconciliation of underwriting results and income excluding net realized gains (losses) to net income, which we consider to be the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We consider these measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, to be important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including investment income, other income and expenses, interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). We exclude net realized gains (losses), including the tax effect, when analyzing our operations because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities, and are generally driven by economic factors that are not necessarily consistent with key drivers of underwriting performance. We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. Underwriting results and income excluding net realized gains (losses) should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. 34 Table of Contents Consolidated Operating Results (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2003 2002 2001 Gross premiums written $ 14,637 $ 12,819 $ 10,165 Net premiums written 10,215 8,068 6,363 Net premiums earned 9,602 6,830 5,916 Losses and loss expenses 6,118 4,906 4,552 Life and annuity benefits 181 158 401 Policy acquisition costs 1,357 960 785 Administrative expenses 1,160 944 829 Underwriting income (loss) 786 (138 ) (651 ) Net investment income 861 802 785 Net realized gains (losses) 252 (489 ) (58 ) Other income (expense) (27 ) (21 ) 1 Interest expense 177 193 199 Income tax expense (benefit) 278 (116 ) (78 ) Amortization of goodwill 79 Cumulative effect of adopting a new accounting standard (23 ) Net income (loss) $ 1,417 $ 77 $ (146 ) Loss and loss expense ratio 65.0% 73.5% 82.6% Policy acquisition cost ratio 14.2% 14.2% 14.1% Administrative expense ratio 12.3% 14.0% 15.0% Combined ratio 91.5% 101.7% 111.7% Gross premiums written increased 14 percent in 2003 compared with 2002. Gross premiums written reflect the premiums paid by our customers to secure insurance or reinsurance protection from us. In 2003, gross premiums written in our P&C businesses increased 21 percent (approximately four percent of this increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar) and gross premiums written in our Financial Services business decreased 32 percent, compared with 2002. Throughout 2003, we continued to experience rate increases and improved terms and conditions on P&C business, especially casualty policies. The decline in the Financial Services business was primarily due to the reduction of premiums for credit default swaps that cover the equity (first loss portion) of a synthetic collateralized debt obligation (CDO). As discussed later in this report, production in the Financial Services segment can fluctuate dramatically from period to period. Gross premiums written increased 26 percent in 2002 compared with 2001 and net premiums written increased 27 percent. Net premiums written, which reflect the premiums we retain after purchasing reinsurance protection, increased 27 percent in 2003 compared with 2002. Net premiums written increased 40 percent in our P&C businesses (four percent of this increase is due to appreciation of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar) and decreased 31 percent in our Financial Services business. Our P&C net premiums written are growing more than our P&C gross premiums written because we are retaining more of the business we write. Our retention ratio (the ratio of net premiums written to gross premiums written) increased to 67 percent in 2003 compared with 58 percent in 2002. This reflects a conscious decision on our part to focus on direct lines of business and to shift away from heavily reinsured business. Net premiums earned, which reflect the portion of net premiums written that were recorded as revenues for the period, increased 41 percent in 2003 compared with 2002. Net premiums earned in our P&C businesses increased 50 percent (five percent of this increase is due to the appreciation of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar) while our Financial Services business decreased two percent. The growth in P&C net premiums earned is a result of the growth in P&C net premiums written. Net premiums earned in 2002 increased 15 percent compared with 2001. These increases reflect the improved insurance market conditions that resulted in a combination of price increases on renewal business and growth in new business opportunities. 35 Table of Contents The following table provides a consolidated breakdown of net premiums earned by line of business for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2003 2002 Casualty $ 4,118 $ 2,589 Property and all other 3,279 2,255 Personal accident 920 701 Total P&C 8,317 5,545 Global Re life 184 158 Financial guaranty 328 282 Financial solutions 773 845 Net premiums earned $ 9,602 $ 6,830 Underwriting results for our P&C and Financial Services business are discussed by reference to the combined ratio, the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio. We calculate these ratios by dividing the respective expense amounts of our P&C and Financial Services business by net premiums earned from our P&C and Financial Services business. We do not calculate these ratios for the life reinsurance business, because they are not appropriate measures of the underwriting results for that business. The combined ratio is determined by adding the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio. A combined ratio under 100 percent indicates underwriting income, and a combined ratio exceeding 100 percent indicates underwriting losses. The loss and loss expense ratio declined in 2003, as the 2002 year was impacted by the increase to our A&E reserve. This reserve strengthening resulted in a net increase in our losses and loss expenses of $516 million ($354 million after tax) and added 7.7 percentage points to our loss and loss expense ratio. In 2003, our losses and loss expenses were higher by $164 million due to the depreciation of the U.S. dollar. Our loss and loss expense ratio is impacted by changes in the mix of business written and the level of catastrophe losses in a period. In 2003, we incurred $112 million of catastrophe losses, compared with $156 million in 2002. We have taken advantage of increasing rates and market opportunities, and most of these opportunities are in the casualty insurance and reinsurance areas, where rate increases are accelerating. Casualty business is typically written at higher loss ratios than property business because in some cases, the losses for casualty business can emerge long after the coverage period has expired, and claim settlement can be more complex than for property claims, which tends to lengthen the settlement period. However, because of the longer claim payout duration, we benefit from investing the premiums for a longer period of time, therefore potentially increasing our net investment income. We have also increased our loss ratio assumptions over the past year in some of our casualty lines in connection with increases we have made in our retained risk levels. Our loss and loss expense ratio is also influenced by the size of LPTs written in a particular quarter. LPTs are typically recorded at higher loss ratios than our other lines of business. In 2002, we recorded gross premiums written attributed to LPT business of $311 million compared with $274 million in 2003. Also impacting our loss and loss expense ratio is adverse prior period development. We incurred $164 million of adverse prior period development in 2003, compared with $709 million ($193 million excluding A&E) in 2002. Our segment discussions below contain more information about prior period development. The 2001 loss and loss expense ratio was impacted by the September 11 tragedy and reserve strengthening for casualty lines, which added $650 million and $170 million, respectively to losses and loss expenses. Together, these two events added 14.7 percentage points to our 2001 loss and loss expense ratio. Our policy acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes, underwriting and other costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of premium. The policy acquisition cost ratio was stable in 2003 compared with 2002 and 2001. The positive impact of the increase in net premiums earned was offset by changes in business mix. We have increased the volume of business generated from Global Reinsurance in ACE Tempest Re USA. ACE Tempest Re USA writes a higher proportion of business on a treaty basis which incurs higher acquisition costs due to higher ceding commission expense. We have also purchased less reinsurance in the Insurance North American segment, which has resulted in reduced ceding commission income. Administrative expenses include all other 36 Table of Contents operating costs. Administrative expenses increased in 2003 and 2002 to support the growth in our business and partially due to the depreciation of the U.S. dollar, which had the effect of increasing administrative expenses for Insurance Overseas General. The administrative expense ratio improved in 2003 and 2002 due to the significant increase in net premiums earned. Net investment income increased $59 million in 2003 and $17 million in 2002, due to higher average invested assets, partially offset by a decline in the investment portfolios yield due to the impact of lower interest rates. See the section entitled Net Investment Income for more information. Increases in net premiums earned and lower catastrophe losses in 2003 contributed to the higher underwriting income compared with 2002, which was impacted by the A&E reserve strengthening. Our net income increased $1.3 billion in 2003 due to higher underwriting income and the impact of net realized gains of $252 million in 2003 compared with net realized losses of $489 million in 2002. The appreciation of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar added $24 million to our net income in 2003. In 2001, we reported underwriting losses due to the September 11 tragedy and the casualty reserve strengthening. Segment Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 The performance of our management for the P&C and Financial Services segments are measured based on the results achieved in underwriting income and income excluding net realized gains (losses). Insurance North American The Insurance North American segment comprises our P&C insurance operations in the U.S., Bermuda and Canada. This segment writes a variety of insurance products including property, liability (general liability and workers compensation), professional lines (directors and officers (D&O) and errors and omissions coverages (E&O)), marine, program business, accident and health (A&H) principally being personal accident, aerospace, consumer oriented products and other specialty lines. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2003 2002 2001 Gross premiums written $ 6,895 $ 6,116 $ 4,521 Net premiums written 4,015 2,919 1,986 Net premiums earned 3,654 2,475 1,816 Losses and loss expenses 2,521 2,200 1,373 Policy acquisition costs 387 216 206 Administrative expenses 402 341 315 Underwriting income (loss) 344 (282 ) (78 ) Net investment income 410 406 426 Other income (expense) (14 ) 1 1 Interest expense 29 32 37 Income tax expense (benefit) 179 (4 ) 94 Income excluding net realized gains (losses) 532 97 218 Net realized gains (losses) 39 (199 ) (19 ) Tax effect of net realized gains (losses) 43 8 Net income (loss) $ 571 $ (59 ) $ 207 Loss and loss expense ratio 69.0% 88.9% 75.6% Policy acquisition cost ratio 10.6% 8.7% 11.3% Administrative expense ratio 11.0% 13.8% 17.4% Combined ratio 90.6% 111.4% 104.3% Insurance North American increased gross premiums written 13 percent in 2003 compared with 2002. This segment continues to benefit from a robust market for casualty lines of business, which represent a growing portion of its gross premiums written. Despite strong casualty premium production in 2003, the growth in gross premiums written has been moderate compared with the 35 percent growth reported in 2002 over 2001. This reflects the stabilization of property rates and our decision to exit certain heavily reinsured program business in late 2002 so that we could deploy our capital in areas with the greatest opportunity for underwriting income. 37 Table of Contents Renewal rates for property business in the U.S. were down slightly in 2003 compared with the significant renewal rate increases experienced in 2002. Overall, property rates are generally at pricing levels that adequately compensate for the exposure being underwritten. For casualty lines, renewal rates on certain of the longer tail lines, such as workers compensation, continued to rise, but at a lower pace than in 2002. However, other casualty lines, such as D&O and umbrella excess business, continue to experience solid rate increases in 2003. Insurance North American significantly increased gross premiums written in 2002 compared with 2001. This increase was due to higher renewal rates as a result of reduced industry capacity, and also due to new products introduced in this segment beginning in 2002, including A&H, excess casualty and medical risk. Net premiums written increased 38 percent in 2003, compared with 2002. The primary factor contributing to the greater growth rate for net premiums written compared with gross premiums written is Insurance North Americans decision to retain more of its gross premiums written. Insurance North American increased its retention in order to take advantage of improved market conditions for rates and terms. A shift in business mix has also contributed to the growth in net premiums written in 2003. ACE Risk Management (ARM) has shifted its business mix away from the heavily reinsured program business and has increased retention of national account business. As a result, the retention ratio for Insurance North American increased to 58 percent for 2003, compared with 48 percent for 2002. Insurance North Americans insurance operations are organized into distinct divisions, each offering specialized products and services targeted at specific markets. The following table provides an entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance North Americans net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2003 2002 2001 ACE Westchester Specialty $ 991 $ 787 $ 506 ACE Risk Management 822 488 388 ACE Diversified Risk 538 259 186 ACE U.S. International 387 313 234 ACE Bermuda 420 259 168 Other 496 369 334 Net premiums earned $ 3,654 $ 2,475 $ 1,816 ACE Westchester Specialty specializes in the wholesale distribution of excess and surplus lines property, inland marine and casualty coverages and products. ACE Westchester Specialty also provides coverage for agriculture business and specialty programs through its Program division. ACE Westchester Specialtys net premiums earned for 2003 increased 26 percent, compared with 2002. This increase primarily reflects higher casualty writings due to the robust casualty market and growth in agriculture business. ARM, which offers custom coverage solutions for large companies and national accounts, reported an increase of 68 percent in net premiums earned for 2003, compared with 2002. ARMs increase in net premiums earned is being driven by growth in excess workers compensation (primarily high deductible policies in national accounts business) and, to a lesser extent custom casualty due to new business and increased retention ratios. ACE Diversified Risk, which writes D&O, E&O and aerospace business, doubled its net premiums earned in 2003, compared to 2002. The increase primarily reflects higher D&O and E&O production, which have been experiencing a favorable rate environment and more restrictive policy terms and conditions. In addition, aerospace net premiums earned increased due to new business from an aviation syndicate that ACE USA participates in. Net premiums earned also benefited from increased retention. ACE U.S. International (formerly referred to as Specialty P&C) provides worldwide risk protection by offering P&C coverages for U.S. based multi national companies. As a result of new business and higher renewal rates, ACE U.S. Internationals net premiums earned for 2003 increased 24 percent compared with 2002, due to growth in the casualty and commercial marine lines. ACE Bermuda, which specializes in providing professional lines and excess liability coverage, reported an increase in net premiums earned of 62 percent for 2003, compared with 2002. ACE Bermuda benefited from both higher renewal rates and increased volume of new business. 38 Table of Contents Insurance North Americans other divisions include ACE Select Markets (formerly referred to as Consumer Solutions group), ACE Casualty Risk, the A&H group, Global Energy, ACE USA Warranty, the run off operations and our insurance related service operations. Net premiums earned for these divisions increased $127 million for 2003, compared with 2002. Contributing to this increase was higher premium volume for ACE Casualty Risk and the A&H group. These units commenced operations in 2002 and 2001, respectively, and are experiencing strong demand for their primary product offerings, mainly umbrella excess for ACE Casualty Risk and personal accident coverage for the A&H group. In addition, ACE Select Markets also reported strong increases in net premiums earned primarily in 2003 for recreational marine business. The loss and loss expense ratio decreased to 69.0 percent in 2003, compared with 88.9 percent in 2002. Losses and loss expenses for 2002 included $516 million related to the A&E reserve strengthening, which added 20.9 percentage points to the 2002 loss and loss expense ratio. The 2003 loss and loss expense ratio for Insurance North American reflects the effect of a greater proportion of net premiums earned relating to casualty business, which has a longer claim payout duration and typically produces higher loss and loss expense ratios than property business. The shift to more casualty business in 2003 more than offset the benefit of rate increases on both property and casualty lines of business in 2002. Additionally, Insurance North American incurred adverse prior period development of $91 million in 2003, compared with adverse development of $79 million in 2002. The 2003 adverse development related primarily to casualty lines and principally emerged from medical inflation in workers compensation and large loss activity in commercial multi peril. Additional minor development was experienced in professional liability, reinsurance of long term disability and run off business offset by positive development on property, excess liability and marine lines of business because case reserves developed better than expected. The 2002 development was primarily from run off business with the remainder being attributed to several lines of business including workers compensation, commercial automobile, health care asset management run off, warranty and financial institutions business. Losses and loss expenses for 2001 included $119 million related to the September 11 tragedy. The policy acquisition cost ratio increased despite the growth in net premiums earned, compared with 2002. This reflects the decision to retain a greater percentage of the gross premiums written and to purchase less reinsurance, which has resulted in reduced ceding commissions for Insurance North American. The administrative expense ratio declined due to the increase in net premiums earned. Administrative expenses increased mainly due to the increased costs associated with servicing the growth in Insurance North Americans product lines. The policy acquisition cost and administrative expense ratios both declined in 2002 compared with 2001 due to increased net premiums earned with a higher proportion of lower commission professional lines business. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) increased $435 million in 2003, compared with 2002, as a result of higher underwriting income. The decrease in 2002 compared with 2001, is primarily due to the asbestos reserve strengthening. Insurance Overseas General The Insurance Overseas General segment comprises ACE International, our network of indigenous insurance operations, and the insurance operations of ACE Global Markets. The Insurance Overseas General segment writes a variety of insurance products including property, casualty, professional lines (D&O and E&O), marine, energy, aviation, political risk, consumer oriented products and A&H principally being supplemental accident. 39 Table of Contents (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2003 2002 2001 Gross premiums written $ 5,191 $ 4,114 $ 3,289 Net premiums written 3,751 2,716 2,154 Net premiums earned 3,563 2,393 1,941 Losses and loss expenses 2,144 1,455 1,465 Policy acquisition costs 682 533 445 Administrative expenses 486 390 333 Underwriting income (loss) 251 15 (302 ) Net investment income 159 108 102 Other income (expense) (7 ) 2 (1 ) Interest expense 4 3 2 Income tax expense (benefit) 84 6 (87 ) Amortization of goodwill 3 Income excluding net realized gains (losses) 315 116 (119 ) Net realized gains (losses) (6 ) (37 ) (5 ) Tax effect of net realized gains (losses) 5 12 2 Net income (loss) $ 314 $ 91 $ (122 ) Loss and loss expense ratio 60.2% 60.8% 75.5% Policy acquisition cost ratio 19.2% 22.3% 22.9% Administrative expense ratio 13.6% 16.3% 17.2% Combined ratio 93.0% 99.4% 115.6% Gross premiums written for the Insurance Overseas General segment increased 26 percent in 2003 compared with 2002. The depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the major currencies accounted for approximately ten percent of the increase in gross premiums written in 2003. ACE International experienced growth across most of its regions, and ACE Global Markets experienced improved market conditions across most of its lines of business. This segments gross premiums written increased in 2002 compared with 2001, due to rate increases, new business writings and the weakening of the U.S. dollar. ACE Internationals P&C operations are organized geographically along product lines. Property insurance products include traditional commercial fire coverage as well as energy industry related coverages. Principal casualty products are commercial general liability and liability coverage for multinational organizations. Through our professional lines, we provide D&O and professional indemnity coverages for medium to large clients. The A&H insurance operations provide coverage to individuals and groups outside of U.S. insurance markets. ACE Internationals gross premiums written increased 36 percent to $3.6 billion in 2003 compared with $2.7 billion in 2002. The increases are due to higher rates and new business across most regions and also due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the pound sterling, euro and yen during the period. The depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the major currencies accounted for approximately 12 percent of the increase in gross premiums written in 2003. ACE Europe, which accounts for more than half of ACE Internationals gross premiums written, continues to experience rising rates and growth in new policies for casualty business. Additionally, ACE Europes A&H lines have contributed positive growth due to strong volume increases. ACE Europes P&C growth was driven by rate increases and new business, specifically professional lines, while its A&H growth was driven by continued success in direct marketing campaigns. Asia Pacific reported production growth for P&C lines due to increases in new business and strong Australian growth while A&H lines increased due to favorable results from direct marketing channels. ACE Latin America reported strong demand for A&H products in Mexico and Brazil, and growth in new P&C policies. ACE Far East production declined due primarily to the adverse effect of the SARS epidemic on travel accident insurance and our decision to selectively renew the auto portfolio. ACE Internationals gross premiums written increased 26 percent in 2002 compared with 2001, due to higher renewal rates and increased new business across most regions. ACE Global Markets primarily underwrites P&C insurance through Lloyds Syndicate 2488 and ACE INA UK Limited. The main lines of business include aviation, property, energy, professional lines, marine, political risk and A&H. ACE Global Markets gross premiums written increased nine percent to $1.6 billion in 2003, compared with 2002. The increase is primarily due to the depreciation of the U.S. 40 Table of Contents dollar against the major currencies which accounted for approximately three quarters of the increase in gross premiums written. ACE Global Markets has been able to build upon favorable market conditions, reporting overall average rate increases of 10 percent in 2003. This is a significant achievement, given that this is in addition to average renewal rate increases that were in excess of 40 percent in 2002. Production in 2003 was subdued by lower rates on certain classes of aviation business and the impact of falling airline passenger movement due to the Iraq conflict and SARS. While rates for certain lines of business have stabilized, there are a number of business classes, most notably professional lines, where rates continue to rise. ACE Global Markets gross premiums written increased by 23 percent to $1.5 billion in 2002 compared with $1.2 billion in 2001. This increase was due to rate increases across most lines and growth in new business. The retention ratio at ACE Global Markets has increased to 70 percent in 2003, compared with 54 percent in 2002 and 60 percent in 2001. The retention ratio was lower in 2002 due to the reinsurance premiums we incurred associated with reinsurance arrangements put into place following a revision of our underwriting strategy and the rebuilding of our reinsurance cover following the September 11 tragedy. Historically, the purchase of reinsurance protection by ACE Global Markets was principally on a whole account basis, and while this approach could have been continued, it was becoming increasingly difficult to acquire economically viable reinsurance protection on this basis. The current reinsurance program is of a more traditional, product line specific nature. This has resulted in number of advantages, including greater access to participating reinsurance markets, achieving more competitive pricing, greater flexibility and the ability to build capacity and coverage of certain lines. The table below shows net premiums earned by each of the Insurance Overseas General segments key components for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2003 2002 2001 ACE Europe $ 1,466 $ 925 $ 659 ACE Asia Pacific 390 246 159 ACE Far East 367 335 349 ACE Latin America 297 225 210 ACE International 2,520 1,731 1,377 ACE Global Markets 1,043 662 564 Net premiums earned $ 3,563 $ 2,393 $ 1,941 ACE Internationals increase in net premiums earned in 2003 and 2002 is attributed to P&C and A&H lines across all geographical regions, with the exception of ACE Far East, where growth in net premiums written has been minimal. The increase in net premiums earned is principally driven by growth in net premiums written and the appreciation of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar over the last two years. ACE Global Markets increase in net premiums earned in 2003 and 2002 is a result of higher net premiums written across most of its product lines, particularly the professional lines, aviation, and property portfolios. The devalued U.S. dollar increased this segments net premiums earned by approximately 11 percentage points. The loss and loss expense ratio for Insurance Overseas General improved slightly in 2003 compared with 2002. Losses for 2003 included $57 million of adverse prior period development, compared with $104 million of adverse development in 2002. Prior period development for 2003 primarily related to casualty lines for ACE International and was a result of lengthening of the loss development patterns for these lines of business. To a lesser extent, ACE Global Markets experienced 2003 adverse development primarily related to marine liability with lower amounts in professional lines, marine hull and bloodstock lines mitigated by positive development on property, energy, aviation and political risk lines of business. 2002 prior period development related primarily to casualty and D&O lines for ACE International and aerospace business for ACE Global Markets. Additionally, this segment incurred $10 million of catastrophe losses in 2003, principally related to hurricanes, while 2002 included $68 million of catastrophe losses related to the European floods. The reduction in the loss and loss expense ratio in 2003 compared with 2002 reflected lower adverse prior period development and lower catastrophe losses mitigated by higher loss ratios for current accident year losses due to changes in business mix. The loss and loss expense ratio for Insurance Overseas General declined in 2002 compared with 2001. This improvement is attributed to the lack of catastrophe losses of the magnitude of the September 11 tragedy and the casualty reserve strengthening, which increased 2001 losses by $67 million and $170 million, respectively. 41 Table of Contents The policy acquisition cost ratio for Insurance Overseas General improved in 2003 compared with 2002, primarily due to a change in business mix. The administrative expense ratio for Insurance Overseas General improved due to the increase in net premiums earned. ACE Internationals administrative expenses increased 25 percent in 2003, due mainly to increased costs associated with supporting business growth across all regions of the world. Additionally, the depreciation of the U.S. dollar added $32 million to administrative expenses in 2003. The policy acquisition cost ratio was relatively unchanged in 2002 compared with 2001, while the administrative expense ratio declined due to the increase in net premiums earned outpacing the increase in expenses to support growth in operations. Underwriting income increased in 2003 compared with 2002 primarily due to the increase in net premiums earned and a decrease in catastrophe losses of $58 million. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) increased in 2003 compared with 2002, driven by increased underwriting income and higher net investment income, partially offset by higher income tax expense. The underwriting loss and the loss excluding net realized gains (losses) in 2001 was primarily a result of the September 11 tragedy and the casualty reserve strengthening. Overall, the depreciation of the U.S. dollar accounted for eight percent of Insurance Overseas Generals net income in 2003. Global Reinsurance The Global Reinsurance segment comprises ACE Tempest Re Bermuda, ACE Tempest Re USA, ACE Tempest Re Europe, and ACE Tempest Life Re (ACE Life Re). ACE Life Re is our Bermuda based life reinsurance operation and is addressed separately. Property and Casualty Reinsurance (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2003 2002 2001 Gross premiums written $ 1,312 $ 887 $ 460 Net premiums written 1,225 777 354 Net premiums earned 1,100 677 324 Losses and loss expenses 559 304 317 Policy acquisition costs 211 123 68 Administrative expenses 62 40 29 Underwriting income (loss) 268 210 (90 ) Net investment income 87 82 70 Other income (expense) 3 1 Interest expense 1 1 Income tax expense (benefit) 14 1 (22 ) Amortization of goodwill 14 Income excluding net realized gains (losses) 344 291 (13 ) Net realized gains (losses) 55 (43 ) (18 ) Net income (loss) $ 399 $ 248 $ (31 ) Loss and loss expense ratio 50.9% 44.9% 97.7% Policy acquisition cost ratio 19.2% 18.1% 21.0% Administrative expense ratio 5.6% 5.9% 9.0% Combined ratio 75.7% 68.9% 127.7% Gross premiums written for Global Reinsurance increased 48 percent in 2003 compared with 2002. The Global Reinsurance segment has expanded into a multi line global reinsurer that offers a diversified portfolio of products. This shift has enabled it to take advantage of the improved P&C market. In 2003, significant production gains were recorded at ACE Tempest Re USA and ACE Tempest Re Europe as these units benefited from higher rates and increased volume for P&C lines. Gross premiums written for this segment increased 93 percent in 2002 compared with 2001. This increase was a result of the improved market for P&C lines, some of which were first offered in 2002, and additionally due to higher property catastrophe premium rates. 42 Table of Contents Global Reinsurances net premiums written increased 58 percent in 2003 compared with 2002. The retention ratio for this segment has increased to 93 percent in 2003, compared with 88 percent in 2002. The increase in the retention ratio reflects the decline in reinsurance purchased at ACE Tempest Re Europe and the increasing proportion of ACE Tempest Re USA business, which tends to be written at higher retention ratios than other business in this segment. ACE Tempest Re Europe increased its retention in order to take advantage of improved market conditions. Net premiums written more than doubled in 2002 compared with 2001, primarily as a result of increased production and less reinsurance purchased by ACE Tempest Re Europe. The table below shows net premiums earned by each of the Global Reinsurance segments key components for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2003 2002 2001 ACE Tempest Re USA $ 463 $ 182 $ 42 ACE Tempest Re Europe 259 142 60 ACE Tempest Re Bermuda 378 353 222 Net premiums earned $ 1,100 $ 677 $ 324 Net premiums earned increased 62 percent in 2003 compared with 2002. The increase in net premiums earned in all components is primarily due to the increase in traditional non catastrophe P&C business. In 2003, 65 percent of net premiums earned was from traditional non catastrophe P&C business, compared with 46 percent in 2002. The increase in 2002 net premiums earned compared with 2001 follows the increase in net premiums written. The loss and loss expense ratio increased in 2003 compared with 2002, due to the shift in mix of business which resulted in growth in non catastrophe P&C business at ACE Tempest Re USA and ACE Tempest Re Europe. Non catastrophe P&C business typically has higher loss ratios than property catastrophe business (except in periods with high catastrophe losses). Property catastrophe business is mainly written at ACE Tempest Re Bermuda. As Global Reinsurance increases non catastrophe P&C writing, we expect its loss and loss expense ratio to continue to increase in line with what would be expected from a traditional multi line reinsurer. Global Reinsurance incurred $82 million of catastrophe losses in 2003, compared with $88 million in 2002. Global Reinsurance had favorable prior period development of $27 million in 2003 compared with favorable development of $20 million in 2002, primarily due to the property catastrophe line of business and the losses in this line being lower than expected. The loss and loss expense ratio improved in 2002 as the Global Reinsurance segment was heavily impacted by the September 11 tragedy, which added 67.6 percentage points to the 2001 loss and loss expense ratio. The policy acquisition cost ratio for Global Reinsurance increased due to the higher proportion of business generated from ACE Tempest Re USA, relative to ACE Tempest Re Europe and ACE Tempest Re Bermuda. More of ACE Tempest Re USAs business is written on a treaty basis which incurs higher acquisition costs due to higher ceding commissions paid. The administrative expense ratio decreased slightly due to increased net premiums earned partially offset by higher staffing costs to support the growth in business. The policy acquisition cost and administrative expense ratios decreased in 2002 due to the shift in business mix and the increase in net premiums earned, respectively. Global Reinsurances underwriting income increased 28 percent in 2003 compared with 2002. The increase is primarily a result of higher net premiums earned in 2003. Underwriting income increased by $300 million in 2002 compared with 2001, due to the impact of the September 11 tragedy on the 2001 results and the improved market conditions in 2002. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) for Global Reinsurance increased 18 percent in 2003 compared with 2002. The increase in 2003 is a result of higher underwriting income and net investment income, partially offset by higher income tax expense. Foreign exchange did not have a material impact on Global Reinsurances income excluding gains in 2003. The large increase in income excluding net realized gains (losses) in 2002 compared with 2001 is due to the impact of the September 11 tragedy in 2001 and the improved market conditions in 2002. Life Reinsurance ACE Life Re principally provides reinsurance coverage to other life insurance companies, focusing on guarantees included in certain fixed and variable annuity products. We do not compete on a traditional basis for pure mortality business. The reinsurance transactions we 43 Table of Contents undertake typically help clients ceding companies to manage mortality, morbidity, and or lapse risks embedded in their book of business. We price life reinsurance using actuarial and investment models that incorporate a number of factors, including assumptions for mortality, morbidity, expenses, demographics, persistency, investment returns and inflation. We assess the performance of our life reinsurance business based on income excluding net realized gains (losses). (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2003 2002 2001 Gross premiums written $ 193 $ 165 $ 414 Net premiums written 185 159 408 Net premiums earned 184 158 406 Life and annuity benefits 181 158 401 Policy acquisition costs 16 16 8 Administrative expenses 3 6 2 Net investment income 33 27 9 Income excluding net realized gains (losses) 17 5 4 Net realized gains (losses) (21 ) (14 ) 2 Net income (loss) $ (4 ) $ (9 ) $ 6 ACE Life Res gross premiums written increased 17 percent in 2003 compared with 2002. This increase relates mainly to new variable annuity and mortality business. Gross premiums written in 2002 included $59 million of non recurring business, $55 million of which was group long term disability business. Gross premiums written decreased 60 percent in 2002 compared with 2001, which included $334 million from non recurring deals. Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) improved in 2003 due to lower policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses, and higher investment income compared with 2002. Policy acquisition costs decreased due to the growth in life, health and annuity lines, which have lower acquisition costs than the group long term disability business. Administrative expenses were lower in 2003 due to reduced staff levels. Investment income is higher due to a higher invested asset base, as a result of increased production in 2003. Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) increased in 2002 compared with 2001, primarily due to higher investment income. 44 Table of Contents Financial Services The Financial Services segment consists of two broad categories: financial guaranty and financial solutions. The financial guaranty operations provide insurance and reinsurance for financial guaranty exposures, including municipal and non municipal obligations, credit default swaps (CDSs), mortgage guaranty reinsurance, title reinsurance, and trade credit reinsurance. The financial solutions operations provide one off insurance and reinsurance solutions to clients with unique or complex risks, which are not adequately addressed in the traditional insurance market. Each financial solutions contract is structured to meet the needs of each client. Certain products (principally credit protection oriented) issued by the Financial Services segment have been determined to meet the definition of a derivative under FAS 133. The Critical Accounting Estimates section has more information relating to these products. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2003 2002 2001 Gross premiums written $ 1,046 $ 1,537 $ 1,481 Net premiums written 1,039 1,497 1,461 Net premiums earned 1,101 1,127 1,429 Losses and loss expenses 894 947 1,397 Policy acquisition costs 61 72 58 Administrative expenses 84 57 56 Underwriting income (loss) 62 51 (82 ) Net investment income 202 192 173 Other income (expense) 1 1 Interest expense 6 12 17 Income tax expense 27 30 21 Amortization of goodwill 4 Income excluding net realized gains (losses) 231 202 50 Net realized gains (losses) 190 (117 ) (4 ) Tax effect of net realized gains (losses) (37 ) 17 (2 ) Cumulative effect of adopting a new accounting standard (23 ) Net income $ 384 $ 102 $ 21 Loss and loss expense ratio 81.2% 84.0% 97.8% Policy acquisition cost ratio 5.5% 6.4% 4.0% Administrative expense ratio 7.7% 5.0% 3.9% Combined ratio 94.4% 95.4% 105.7% Gross premiums written decreased 32 percent in 2003 compared with 2002. This decrease is primarily related to the termination of equity layer CDOs during 2003, which resulted in the recording of negative gross premiums written of $79 million. The financial solutions operations have reduced writing equity layer CDOs, and the financial guaranty operations have ceased writing this line completely due to presently unfavorable pricing terms. Gross premiums written in 2002 were slightly higher than in 2001, due to increased writings of equity layer CDOs, and CDSs, which were partially offset by lower LPT volume. Gross premiums written for the financial guaranty operations increased 30 percent to $510 million in 2003, compared with $391 million in 2002. The municipal line reported strong production growth, benefiting from increased new issue activity, due to low interest rates and also a higher proportion of the new issues are insured. In addition, non municipal and trade credit lines of business achieved strong production results offset by a decline in mortgage and equity CDO business. The decrease in mortgage gross written premium is partly due to the low interest rate environment that has fueled refinancing activity and resulted in a commensurate reduction in the existing in force quota share book. Additionally, a non recurring mortgage transaction was completed in 2002. During the fourth quarter of 2003, we terminated three equity layer CDOs, which resulted in the recording of negative gross premiums written. The policy acquisition cost ratio increased due to a change in business mix whereby a greater portion of the business, specifically municipal, non municipal and trade credit lines, incurs commission costs. Administrative expenses increased as a result of an increase in staff needed to support the growing direct business and also due to a severance charge associated with the planned IPO. Underwriting income decreased $11 45 Table of Contents million to $37 million in 2003, compared with $48 million in 2002, due to the higher policy acquisition cost and administrative expense ratios. In 2002, the financial guaranty operations increased underwriting income $16 million due to lower losses and loss expenses. Gross premiums written for the financial solutions operations decreased to $536 million in 2003 compared with $1.1 billion in 2002. This reduction relates to the decline in LPTs written and the recording of negative premiums due to the termination of an equity CDO. Additionally, 2002 was bolstered by several large, multi year prospective, structured programs sold. Net premiums earned for the financial solutions operations decreased to $773 million in 2003, compared with $845 million, in 2002. This decline in net premiums earned is the result of a reduction of retrospective premiums from LPTs, which are fully earned when written, offset, to a large degree, by an increase in net premiums earned from prospective contracts, typically finite and structured risk products for which premiums may be earned over a three to five year effective period. The financial solutions operations reported an increase in underwriting income of $22 million to $25 million in 2003, compared with $3 million in 2002. Underwriting income increased due to changes in mix of business as well as the discontinuation of life business, which typically incurs higher commissions than other business. The administrative expense ratio increased as a result of increased staffing costs. Underwriting income for the financial solutions operations increased $117 million in 2002 compared with 2001, which included an underwriting income impact of $147 million due to the September 11 tragedy. Financial Services reported an increase in income excluding net realized gains (losses) in 2003 compared with 2002. The increase is a result of higher underwriting income and net investment income, and also a reduction in interest expense. Additionally, Financial Services incurred $43 million of adverse prior period development in 2003 principally on the structured finance line of business due to credit deterioration in collateralized debt obligations assumed through reinsurance treaties. In addition, prior year development includes an increase in the case reserve on an auto residual value transaction. Adverse development of $30 million in 2002 was principally from the ACE Financial Solutions International book, which comprises large, unique transactions, including LPTs. The increase in income excluding realized gains (losses) in 2002 compared with 2001, reflects the losses associated with the September 11 tragedy. Following the closing of the planned IPO, we expect Financial Services income excluding net realized gains (losses) for 2004 to decrease 15 20 percent compared with 2003. Net Investment Income Years Ended December 31 (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2003 2002 2001 Insurance North American $ 410 $ 406 $ 426 Insurance Overseas General 159 108 102 Global Reinsurance P&C 87 82 70 Global Reinsurance Life 33 27 9 Financial Services 202 192 173 Corporate and Other (30 ) (13 ) 5 Net investment income $ 861 $ 802 $ 785 Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors, including the amounts and timing of inward and outward cash flows, the level of interest rates, and changes in overall asset allocation. Net investment income increased seven percent in 2003 and two percent in 2002 compared with 2002 and 2001, respectively. The increased net investment income is due to the positive operating cash flows during 2003, 2002 and 2001 that resulted in a higher average invested asset base. This positive impact on investment income was partially offset by a decline in the investment portfolios yield, due to the impact of lower interest rates on investment of new cash and reinvestment of maturing securities. The average yield on fixed maturities declined to 4.0 percent at December 31, 2003, compared with 4.4 percent and 5.2 percent at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Net Realized Gains (Losses) Our investment strategy takes a long term view, and our investment portfolio is actively managed to maximize total return within certain specific guidelines, designed to minimize risk. Our investment portfolio is reported at fair value. The effect of market movements on our investment portfolio impact income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold, when other than temporary impairments are recorded on invested assets or when derivatives, including financial futures and options, interest rate swaps and credit default 46 Table of Contents swaps, are marked to fair value or are settled. Changes in unrealized appreciation and depreciation, which result from the revaluation of securities held, are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. The following table presents our pre tax net realized gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. Years Ended December 31 (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2003 2002 2001 Fixed maturities and short term investments $ 100 $ (58 ) $ (7 ) Equity securities (41 ) (157 ) 27 Other investments (25 ) (12 ) (38 ) Financial futures, options and interest rate swaps 34 (188 ) (11 ) Fair value adjustment on credit derivatives 163 (77 ) (17 ) Currency 21 3 (12 ) Total net realized gains (losses) $ 252 $ (489 ) $ (58 ) Given our total return objective for our investment portfolio, we may sell securities at a loss due to changes in the investment environment, our expectation that fair value may deteriorate further, our desire to reduce our exposure to an issuer or an industry, and changes in the credit quality of the security. FAS 133 requires us to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet, and measure them at fair value. We record the gains and losses resulting from the fair value measurement of derivatives in net realized gains (losses). We participate in derivative instruments in two principal ways as follows: i) to offer protection to others as the seller or writer of the derivative, such as our credit derivatives business; or ii) to mitigate our own risk, principally arising from our investment holdings. We do not consider either type of transaction to be speculative. For the year ended December 31, 2003, we recorded net realized gains of $197 million on derivative transactions, compared with net realized losses of $265 million and $28 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. With respect to our credit derivatives business, as explained under Critical Accounting Estimates, we record a portion of the change in fair value in the losses and loss expense reserves, representing our best estimate of loss payouts, and a portion in net realized gains (losses), representing other changes in fair value. The fair value adjustment included in net realized gains (losses) in 2003 was a net realized gain of $163 million, compared with net realized losses of $77 million and $17 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively. The change in fair value is related to many factors but primarily due to changes in credit spreads. The gain or loss created by the estimated fair value adjustment will rise or fall each period based on estimated market pricing and may not be an indication of ultimate claims. Fair value is defined as the amount at which an asset or liability could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties. We generally plan to hold derivative financial instruments to maturity. Where we hold derivative financial instruments to maturity, these fair value adjustments would generally be expected to reverse resulting in no gain or loss over the entire term of the contract. However, in the event that we terminate a derivative contract prior to maturity, as a result of a decision to exit a line of business or for risk management purposes, the unrealized gain or loss will be realized through premiums earned and losses incurred. We recorded net realized gains on financial futures and option contracts and interest rate swaps of $34 million in 2003, compared with net realized losses of $188 million and $11 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively. We recorded net realized losses of $6 million on interest rate swaps in 2003, compared with net realized losses of $81 million in 2002. The interest rate swaps are designed to reduce the negative impact of increases in interest rates on our fixed maturity portfolio. We recorded gains of $40 million on our Standard and Poors (S&P) equity index futures contracts as the S&P 500 equity index increased 26 percent in 2003. We use foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the effect of fluctuating foreign currencies on certain non U.S. dollar holdings in our portfolio that are not specifically matching foreign currency liabilities. These contracts are not designated as specific hedges and, in accordance with FAS 133, we record all realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts as net realized gains (losses) in the period in which the currency values change. We regularly review our investment portfolio for possible impairment based on criteria including economic conditions, credit loss experience and issuer specific developments. If there is a decline in a securitys net realizable value, we must determine whether that decline is temporary or other than temporary. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record it as an unrealized loss in our shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the carrying value of 47 Table of Contents the investment and record a net realized loss in our statement of operations. The decision to recognize a decline in the value of a security carried at fair value as other than temporary rather than temporary has no impact on our book value. Once a security is identified as having a potential other than temporary impairment, we determine whether or not cost will ultimately be recovered and whether we have the intent and ability to hold the security until an expected recovery period, absent a significant change in facts that is expected to have a material adverse financial effect on the issuer. Our net realized gains (losses) in 2003 included write downs of $29 million related to fixed maturity investments, $63 million related to equity securities and $29 million related to other investments, as a result of conditions which caused us to conclude the decline in fair value of the investment was other than temporary. This compares with write downs of $101 million related to fixed maturity investments, $153 million related to equity securities and $14 million related to other investments in 2002. Excluding the impairment charges, we recorded $155 million of net gains primarily from the sale of fixed maturities. The process of determining whether a decline in value is temporary or other than temporary requires considerable judgment and differs depending on whether or not the security is traded on a public market as well as by type of security. As a result of our periodic review process, we have determined that there currently is no need to sell any of these securities to fund anticipated payments. We have described below, by type of security, our process for reviewing our investments for possible impairment. We review all of our fixed maturity securities, including securities on loan, and equity securities for potential impairment each quarter. Initially, we identify those securities to be evaluated for a potential impairment. In this process, the following is considered by type of security: Fixed Maturities and Equity Securities, including Securities on Loan A security that meets any of the following criteria is to be evaluated for a potential impairment: securities that have been in a loss position for the previous twelve months; those securities that have been in a loss position for the previous nine months and market value is less than 80 percent of amortized cost, or cost for equity securities; or those securities that are rated below investment grade by at least one major rating agency. We evaluate all other fixed maturity and equity securities for a potential impairment when the unrealized loss at the balance sheet date exceeds a certain scope, based on both a percentage (i.e., market value is less than 80 percent of amortized cost, or cost for equity securities) and aggregate dollar decline, and certain indicators of an other than temporary impairment are present including: a significant economic event has occurred that is expected to adversely affect the industry the issuer participates in; recent issuer specific news that is likely to have an adverse affect on operating results and cash flows; or a missed or late interest or principal payment related to any debt issuance. For those securities identified as having a potential other than temporary impairment based on the above criteria, we estimate a reasonable period of time in which market value is expected to recover to a level in excess of cost, if at all. For fixed maturity securities, factors considered include: the degree to which any appearance of impairment is attributable to an overall change in market conditions such as interest rates rather than changes in the individual factual circumstances and risk profile of the issuer; the performance of the relevant industry sector; the nature of collateral or other credit support; whether an issuer is current in making principal and interest payments on the debt securities in question; the issuers financial condition and our assessment (using available market information) of its ability to make future scheduled principal and interest payments on a timely basis; and current financial strength or debt rating, analysis and guidance provided by rating agencies and analysts. For equity securities, factors considered include: whether the decline appears to be related to general market or industry conditions or is issuer specific; and the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, including specific events that may influence the issuers operations. Securities will be assessed to have an other than temporary impairment if cost is not expected to be recovered or we do not have the ability and specific intent to hold the security until its expected recovery. We typically make this latter assessment when such intent is considered inconsistent with our investment objectives, such as maximizing total return. 48 Table of Contents Other Investments With respect to other investments that are not traded in a public market, such as venture capital investments, the portfolio managers, as well as our internal valuation committee, consider a variety of factors in determining whether or not the investment should be evaluated for impairment. Indicators of impairment include: the issuer has reported losses for two consecutive fiscal years; a significant economic event has occurred that is expected to adversely affect the industry the issuer participates in; recent issuer specific news that is expected to adversely affect operating results; and a missed interest or principal payment related to any debt issuance. For those securities identified as having a possible impairment, we determine a reasonable period of time in which market value is expected to recover to a level in excess of cost, if at all. Factors considered include: the issuers most recent financing events; an analysis of whether fundamental deterioration has occurred; and the issuers progress, and whether it has been substantially less than expected. These securities will be assessed to have an other than temporary impairment if cost is not expected to be recovered or it is concluded that we do not have the ability and specific intent to hold the security until its expected recovery. The following table summarizes for all securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2003 (including securities on loan), the aggregate fair value and gross unrealized loss by length of time the amounts have continuously been in an unrealized loss position. 0 12 Months Over 12 Months Total (in millions of U.S. dollars) Fair Value Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Gross Unrealized Losses U.S. Treasury and agency $ 634 $ 6 $ $ $ 634 $ 6 Non U.S. governments 283 5 283 5 Corporate securities 994 17 5 999 17 Mortgage backed securities 1,299 15 1,299 15 States, municipalities and political subdivisions 146 6 146 6 Total fixed maturities 3,356 49 5 3,361 49 Equities 38 3 38 3 Other investments Total $ 3,394 $ 52 $ 5 $ $ 3,399 $ 52 Other Income and Expense Items Years Ended December 31 (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2003 2002 2001 Other income (expense) $ (27 ) $ (21 ) $ 1 Interest expense $ 177 $ 193 $ 199 Income tax expense (benefit) $ 278 $ (116 ) $ (78 ) Amortization of goodwill $ $ $ 79 The other expense for 2003 includes $9 million of charges related to the commutation of a reinsurance contract and $12 million in goodwill and software impairments. Other expense for 2002 includes $25 million in debt prepayment expense on the ACE INA Subordinated Notes due in 2009. This cost was primarily attributable to a decline in interest rates since the note was originally issued. 49 Table of Contents The decrease in interest expense is a result of a reduction in average outstanding trust preferred securities in 2003 compared with 2002. This decrease was partly offset due to the impact of the $500 million 6.0 percent notes issued late in the first quarter of 2002. During 2002, we repaid $400 million of trust preferred securities. Interest expense declined in 2002 compared with 2001 due to lower interest rates and a reduction in outstanding debt. The increase in income tax expense is primarily due to the increase in net income in 2003 compared with 2002. Our net realized gains in 2003 compared with net realized losses in 2002 increased income tax expense by $104 million. In addition, the increased profitability for Insurance Overseas General added $78 million to income tax expense in 2003. Last years A&E reserve strengthening resulted in an income tax benefit of $162 million in 2002. We reported an income tax benefit of $78 million in 2001 primarily due to the underwriting loss generated largely by the September 11 tragedy. Our effective tax rate on income excluding net realized gains (losses) for 2003, was 17 percent. Our effective tax rate is dependent upon the mix of earnings from different jurisdictions with various tax rates; a different geographic mix of actual earnings would change the effective tax rate. For further information on taxation, see Note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Investments and Cash Our principal investment objective is to ensure that funds are available to meet our insurance and reinsurance obligations. Within this broad liquidity constraint, the purpose of our investment portfolios structure is to maximize total return subject to specifically approved guidelines of overall asset classes, credit quality, and liquidity and volatility of expected returns. Our investment portfolio is invested primarily in fixed income securities with an average credit quality of AA, as rated by the independent investment rating service S&P. The portfolio is externally managed by independent, professional, investment managers. The average duration of our fixed income securities, including the effect of interest rate swaps, is 3.4 years at December 31, 2003, compared with 3.1 at December 31, 2002. Our other investments principally comprise direct investments, investments in investment funds and investments in limited partnerships. The following table identifies our invested assets by type held at fair value and cost/amortized cost at December 31, 2003 and 2002. December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Fair Value Cost/ AmortizedCost Fair Value Cost/ AmortizedCost Fixed maturities $ 18,645 $ 18,006 $ 14,420 $ 13,791 Securities on loan 684 650 293 286 Short term investments 2,928 2,928 2,270 2,270 Cash 562 562 663 663 22,819 22,146 17,646 17,010 Equity securities 544 401 411 442 Other investments 645 602 652 622 Total investments and cash $ 24,008 $ 23,149 $ 18,709 $ 18,074 We also gain exposure to equity markets through the use of derivative instruments. The combined equity exposure through both our equity portfolio and derivative instruments was valued at $662 million and $603 million at December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. The increase of $5.3 billion in total investments and cash is due to positive cash flows from operations as a result of strong premium volume, increased unrealized gains, increased securities lending collateral and the issuance of preferred shares. Offsetting these increases were dividends paid of $231 million in 2003. 50 Table of Contents The following tables show the market value of our fixed maturities, short term investments, securities on loan and cash at December 31, 2003. The first table lists elements according to type, and the second according to S&P credit rating. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Market Value Percentageof Total Treasury $ 1,715 7.5% Agency 1,512 6.6% Corporate 8,118 35.6% Mortgage backed securities 3,894 17.1% Asset backed securities 737 3.2% Municipal 1,445 6.3% Non U.S. 1,908 8.4% Cash and short term investments 3,490 15.3% Total $ 22,819 100% (in millions of U.S. dollars) Market Value Percentageof Total AAA $ 12,315 54.0% AA 3,389 14.8% A 3,534 15.5% BBB 1,783 7.8% BB 709 3.1% B 1,029 4.5% Other 60 0.3% Total $ 22,819 100% In accordance with the ACE investment process, we invest in below investment grade securities through dedicated investment portfolios managed by external investments managers that have investment professionals specifically dedicated to this asset class. At December 31, 2003, our fixed income investment portfolio included below investment grade securities and non rated securities which, in total, comprised approximately eight percent of our fixed income portfolio. We define a security as being below investment grade if it has an S&P credit rating of BB or less. Our below investment grade and non rated portfolio includes approximately 500 names, with the top ten holdings making up approximately 11 percent of the $1.8 billion balance at December 31, 2003. The highest single exposure in this portfolio of securities is $26 million. Below investment grade securities have different characteristics than investment grade corporate debt securities. Risk of loss from default by the borrower is greater with below investment grade securities. Below investment grade securities are generally unsecured and are often subordinated to other creditors of the issuer. Also, issuers of below investment grade securities usually have higher levels of debt and are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions such as recession or increasing interest rates, than are investment grade issuers. We reduce the overall risk in the below investment grade portfolio, as in all investments, through careful credit analysis, strict investment policy guidelines, and diversification by issuer and or guarantor as well as by industry. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Variable Interests Related to Equity Investments in CDOs As a complement to our credit default swap business and with the objective of enhancing investment yield, we invested in the equity tranches of six CDOs from June 2001 through August 2002. Our aggregate maximum exposure under these CDOs is $43.8 million, which approximates the cost of these investments. At December 31, 2003, the underlying assets in these CDOs, which aggregate to $2.6 billion for all six CDOs, are principally invested in asset backed securities, including investments in the debt tranches of other CDOs. While management considers the related entities to be variable interest entities, as defined by FIN 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51, our equity investments represent a small portion of the variable interests in each CDO. Accordingly, under FIN 46, we are not required to consolidate any of these entities. At December 31, 2003, our aggregate carrying 51 Table of Contents value for these investments is $29.1 million, which represents our remaining loss exposure related to these investments as of December 31, 2003. From January 1, 2004 through February 11, 2004, we sold four of these six positions, representing $16.1 million of our year end carrying value and $1.9 billion of the aforementioned $2.6 billion of aggregate assets in all six CDOs. Restricted Assets We are required to maintain assets on deposit with various regulatory authorities to support our insurance and reinsurance operations. These requirements are generally promulgated in the statutory regulations of the individual jurisdictions. The assets on deposit are available to settle insurance and reinsurance liabilities. We also utilize trust funds in certain large transactions where the trust funds are set up for the benefit of the ceding companies and generally take the place of Letter of Credit (LOC) requirements. We also have investments in segregated portfolios primarily to provide collateral or guarantees for LOCs and debt instruments. (See Notes 7 and 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements) The following table identifies the value of restricted assets at December 31, 2003 and 2002. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2003 2002 Deposits with U.S. regulatory authorities $ 908 $ 650 Deposits with non U.S. regulatory authorities 1,303 1,070 Assets used for collateral or guarantees 1,141 1,230 Trust funds 1,707 1,381 $ 5,059 $ 4,331 The value of restricted assets increased $728 million to $5.1 billion at December 31, 2003. The higher value of restricted assets is a result of increased use of our secured credit facility and the higher use of trust funds in place of LOCs.  Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses We establish reserves for the estimated unpaid ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses under the terms of our policies and agreements. These reserves take into account estimates both for claims that have been reported and for IBNR, and include estimates of expenses associated with processing and settling claims. The table below presents a rollforward of our unpaid losses and loss expenses for the year ended December 31, 2003. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Losses ReinsuranceRecoverable Net Losses Balance at December 31, 2002 $ 24,315 $ 12,997 $ 11,318 Losses and loss expenses incurred 10,265 4,148 6,117 Losses and loss expenses paid (8,213 ) (4,308 ) (3,905 ) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) 788 355 433 Balance at December 31, 2003 $ 27,155 $ 13,192 $ 13,963 Note 5 of our Consolidated Financial Statements includes a reconciliation of our beginning and ending net losses and loss adjustment expense reserves for each of the three years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001. The reserve for unpaid losses and loss expenses increased by $2.8 billion to $27.1 billion at December 31, 2003 compared with $24.3 billion at December 31, 2002. This increase is attributed to the significant growth in business in 2003. The balance at December 31, 2003, includes $13.9 billion of IBNR compared with $11.3 billion at December 31, 2002. Our net incurred losses in 2003 were $6.1 billion, compared with $4.9 billion in 2002. Net losses and loss expenses incurred for 2003 and 2002 include $164 million and $709 million of prior period development, respectively. In 2002, we incurred $516 million of prior period development related to A&E. More information regarding prior period development is included in the Segment Operating Results section. 52 Table of Contents We have exposure to catastrophic event risk from global (re)insurance writings of property, workers compensation and other lines of business. This potential loss accumulation, caused by either man made or natural events, is addressed within using several different approaches. First, we have established a series of Product Boards to ensure that geographic, product and client exposures are appropriate and meet limit guidelines adopted by the Boards. Second, we have adopted since 1999 a standardized catastrophe exposure modeling approach across each of its underwriting operations which allows the aggregation of risk within and across business units. This aggregation is performed and monitored on a quarterly basis to provide a level assessment of risk. Third, where the risk/return economics are effective, reinsurance is purchased at the business unit level to protect from accumulations arising either within product, business unit or across a combination thereof such that the overall risk from a catastrophic loss is appropriate to our capital structure. In 2001, we incurred net losses of $650 million relating to the September 11 tragedy. At December 31, 2003, we had paid $1 billion of losses related to the September 11 tragedy and collected $684 million or 96 percent of the $708 million billed to reinsurers. Our net unpaid loss in connection with the September 11 tragedy was $323 million at December 31, 2003. We continue to evaluate our total potential liability based upon individual insurance and reinsurance policy language, legal and factual developments in underlying matters involving our insureds, relevant court decisions and legislative developments in the U.S. involving the terrorist attack. If our current assessments of future developments are proven wrong, the financial impact of any of them, singularly or in the aggregate, could be material. For each of our lines of business, management, in conjunction with internal actuaries, develop a best estimate of ultimate liabilities, which they believe provide a reasonable estimate of the required reserve. The following is a discussion of our reserve setting procedures by segment: Insurance North American and Insurance Overseas General Our internal actuaries perform standard actuarial methodologies including paid and incurred loss development and the Bornhuetter Ferguson (BF) incurred and paid loss methods. The BF method is a blend of an expected loss ratio method and utilization of a pattern consistent with that of a loss development technique. For those lines of business where there is enough historical experience, in general, all four methods are utilized and an ultimate indication is estimated based on the outcomes of these techniques as well as any other methods used for the given line of business (e.g. counts and averages approaches). More reliance would be placed on loss development techniques for the older years as these are more mature and would have more consistent trends. For the more recent years, especially for long tailed lines of business, a BF method would be given more weight as these immature years are highly leveraged and in many cases a development method could significantly understate or overstate liabilities. In all cases, additional diagnostics are performed to help in the determination of the most appropriate estimate. These diagnostics include a review of paid loss to incurred loss ratios, claims disposal rates and implied IBNR to case outstanding ratios. In situations where a new line of business is being written or a new product line being sold, an expected loss ratio method would be more appropriate as our own historical loss development information is limited. In these cases, industry benchmark loss ratios and development patterns are utilized to estimate ultimate indications. Given the high severity, low frequency nature of ACE Bermudas book of business, the actuarial techniques utilized in calculating IBNR is more heavily weighted to an expected loss ratio/BF methodology. There is intense monitoring by claim of potential case reserve development in this business and the interaction between the claims department and actuarial function is a crucial element in the success of this operating unit. Global Reinsurance ACE Global Res book of business consists of a significant amount of property catastrophe exposure. For this line of business, we develop initial loss estimates for large individual catastrophes based on market share information of potential exposures. Market share analysis uses cedant and industry information at geographic level (e.g. country) and line of business. A range of industry losses is then passed through the relevant market shares to provide a range of losses for the companys exposures, allowing for program attachment points and the appropriate shares of the indemnity limits involved. When actual case reserves from the ceding companies are received, the initial loss estimates are progressively modified to reflect the actual emerging loss experience. Since the subject business is short tail, most of our historical losses are now reserved on this basis. For the casualty lines of business, similar actuarial techniques are utilized as described above for the Insurance North American and Insurance Overseas General segments. However, due to the 53 Table of Contents immaturity of this book of business, more weight is given to the BF method of projections. There is considerable uncertainty around the expected projections for these lines and any favorable trends that may be seen in the development could easily be reversed. Financial Services Financial Guaranty For the financial guaranty reinsurance and mortgage guaranty reinsurance businesses, unpaid losses and loss expenses principally consist of case reserves and portfolio reserves. Incurred but not reported reserves are generally limited to mortgage guaranty reinsurance assumed through quota share treaties, which represent a relatively small portion of these businesses. Case reserves are established when specific insured obligations are in or near default. Case reserves represent the present value of expected future loss payments and loss expenses, net of estimated recoveries but before considering ceded reinsurance. Financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance case reserves are discounted at 6.0 percent, which is the approximate taxable equivalent yield on the investment portfolio in all periods presented. We also record portfolio reserves for our financial guaranty and mortgage guaranty businesses. Portfolio reserves are established with respect to the portion of our business for which case reserves have not been established. Portfolio reserves are established in an amount equal to the portion of actuarially estimated ultimate losses related to premiums earned to date as a percentage of total expected premiums for that in force business. Portfolio reserves are developed considering the net par outstanding of each insured obligation, taking account of the probability of future default, the expected timing of the default and the expected recovery following default. These factors vary by type of issue (for example municiple, structured finance corporate), current credit rating and remaining term of the underlying obligation and are principally based on historical data obtained from rating agencies. Actuarially estimated ultimate losses on mortgage guaranty reinsurance are principally determined based on the historical industry loss experience, net of recoveries. During an accounting period, portfolio reserves principally increase or decrease based on changes in aggregate net amount at risk and the probability of default resulting from changes in credit quality of insured obligations, if any. Financial Solutions With respect to our financial solutions business, each contract we write is relatively large and unique, so each contract is reviewed and assessed individually. Most contracts are multi year in nature. As with our financial guaranty business, traditional actuarial methods such as analyzing and extrapolating historical loss experience are not considered appropriate for financial solutions business because of the relatively small number of large contracts. Our loss estimates are based on contract terms (such as a requirement to pay profit commissions) original pricing information, analysis and comparison with external data and experience to date on the contract.  Reinsurance One of the ways we manage our loss exposure is through the use of reinsurance. While reinsurance agreements are designed to limit our losses from large exposures and permit recovery of a portion of direct unpaid losses, reinsurance does not relieve us of liability to our insureds. Accordingly, the losses and loss expense reserves on our balance sheet represent our total unpaid gross losses. The reinsurance recoverable represents anticipated recoveries of a portion of those gross unpaid losses as well as amounts recoverable from reinsurers with respect to claims paid. The table below presents our net reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2003 and 2002. (in millions of U.S. dollars) December 31 2003 December 31 2002 Reinsurance recoverable on paid losses and loss expenses $ 1,277 $ 1,363 Bad debt reserve on paid losses and loss expenses (403 ) (378 ) Reinsurance recoverable on future policy benefits 15 9 Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses 13,749 13,558 Bad debt reserve on unpaid losses and loss expenses (557 ) (561 ) Net reinsurance recoverable $ 14,081 $ 13,991 We evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and potential reinsurers on a regular basis and also monitor concentrations of credit risk with reinsurers. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is required principally due to the failure of reinsurers to indemnify us, 54 Table of Contents primarily because of disputes under reinsurance contracts and insolvencies. Provisions have been established for amounts estimated to be uncollectible. Following is a breakdown of our reinsurance recoverable on paid losses at December 31, 2003 and 2002: December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Amount Bad DebtReserve % of TotalReserve Amount Bad DebtReserve % of TotalReserve Category General collections $ 730 $ 45 6.2% $ 848 $ 43 5.1% Other 547 358 65.4% 515 335 65.0% Total $ 1,277 $ 403 31.6% $ 1,363 $ 378 27.7% The general collections category represents amounts in the process of collection in the normal course of business. These are balances for which we have no indication of dispute or credit related issues. The other category includes amounts recoverable that are in dispute, or are from companies in supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation. Our estimation of this reserve considers the credit quality of the reinsurer and whether we have received collateral or other credit protections, such as parental guarantees. The following tables provide a listing of our largest reinsurers with the first category representing the top ten reinsurers and the second category representing the remaining reinsurers with balances greater than $20 million. The third category includes amounts due from over 2,500 companies, each having balances of less than $20 million. Our bad debt reserve in the three categories is principally based on an analysis of the credit quality of the reinsurer and collateral balances. The next category, mandatory pools and government agencies, includes amounts backed by certain state and federal agencies. In certain states, insurance companies are required by law to participate in these pools. The fifth category, structured settlements, includes annuities purchased from life insurance companies to settle claims. Since we retain the ultimate liability in the event that the life company fails to pay the claimant, we reflect the amount as a liability and as a recoverable for GAAP purposes. These amounts are not subject to dispute and we establish our bad debt reserve based on the application of historical collection experience. The next category, captives, includes companies established and owned by our insurance clients to assume a significant portion of their direct insurance risk from us, i.e., they are structured to allow clients to self insure a portion of their insurance risk. It is generally our policy to obtain collateral equal to expected losses; where appropriate, exceptions are granted, but only with review and sign off at a senior officer level. Our final category, other, includes amounts recoverable that are in dispute or are from companies that are in supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation. We establish our bad debt reserve for these categories based on a case by case analysis of individual situations, including credit and collateral analysis and consideration of our collection experience in similar situations. 55 Table of Contents Breakdown of Reinsurance Recoverable (in millions of U.S. dollars) December 312003 Bad DebtReserve % of Gross Categories Top 10 reinsurers $ 7,798 $ 84 1.1 % Other reinsurers balances greater than $20 million 3,373 147 4.4 % Other reinsurers balances less than $20 million 979 150 15.3 % Mandatory pools and government agencies 779 4 0.5 % Structured settlements 429 2 0.5 % Captives 801 1 0.1 % Other 882 572 64.9 % Total $ 15,041 $ 960 6.4 % Top 10 Reinsurers (net of collateral) AXA Berkshire Hathaway Insurance Group CIGNA EQUITAS GE Global Insurance Group Hannover Lloyds of London Munich Re St. Paul Companies Swiss Re Group Other Reinsurers Balances Greater Than $20 million (net of collateral) ABB Group Fairfax Financial QBE Insurance AIOI Insurance FM Global Group RenaissanceRe Holdings Ltd. Allianz Group Gerling Group Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group Plc American International Group Great American P&C Insurance Companies Scor Group Arch Capital Hartford Insurance Group Sompo Japan AVIVA Independence Blue Cross (Amerihealth) Toa Reinsurance Company Chubb Insurance Group ING Internationale Nederlanden Group Tokio Marine & Fire Insurance Company Ltd. CNA Insurance Companies IRB Brasil Resseguros S.A. Travelers Property Casualty Group Constellation Reinsurance Company Korean Reinsurance Company (KRIC) Trenwick Group Converium Group Liberty Mutual Insurance Companies White Mountains Insurance Group DaimlerChrysler Group Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Company Ltd. WR Berkley Corp. Dominion Ins. Co. Ltd Overseas Partners Ltd. XL Capital Group Electric Insurance Company Partner Reinsurance Company of the U.S. Zurich Financial Services Group Everest Re Group PMA Capital Insurance Company Asbestos and Environmental Claims Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E. These A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites and bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and environmental hazards. These amounts include provision for both reported and IBNR claims. Our exposure to asbestos principally arises out of liabilities acquired when we purchased Westchester Specialty in 1998 and the P&C business of CIGNA in 1999, with the larger exposure contained within the liabilities acquired in the CIGNA transaction. These CIGNA 56 Table of Contents transaction liabilities reside in various subsidiaries of Brandywine, which was created in 1995 by the restructuring of CIGNAs domestic operations into separate ongoing and run off operations. As part of the acquisition of Westchester Specialty, NICO provided $750 million of reinsurance protection for adverse development on loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. At December 31, 2003, the remaining unused limit in this NICO Westchester Specialty cover was approximately $600 million. As part of the acquisition of the CIGNA P&C business, NICO provided $2.5 billion of reinsurance protection for adverse development on Brandywine loss and loss adjustment expense reserves and for uncollectible ceded reinsurance. This NICO Brandywine cover was exhausted on an incurred basis with the increase in our A&E reserves in the fourth quarter of 2002. The active ACE INA companies retain two primary funding obligations associated with the run off Brandywine operations: a dividend retention fund obligation and required reinsurance coverage provided under an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement. In addition, certain active ACE INA companies remain residually liable for pre 1987 general liability business ceded by those companies to the primary Brandywine subsidiary, Century Indemnity Company (Century). In accordance with the Brandywine restructuring order, INA Financial Corporation established and funded a dividend retention fund consisting of $50 million plus investment earnings. Pursuant to terms of the restructuring, the full balance of this dividend retention fund was contributed to Century as of December 31, 2002. To the extent in the future that dividends are paid by INA Holdings Corporation to its parent, INA Financial Corporation, and to the extent that INA Financial Corporation then pays such dividends to INA Corporation, a portion of those dividends must be withheld to replenish the principal of the dividend retention fund to $50 million within five years. In 2003, no such dividends were paid, and therefore no replenishment of the dividend retention fund occurred. This dividend fund obligation, to maintain and to replenish the fund as necessary and to the extent dividends are paid, is ongoing until ACE INA receives prior written approval from the Pennsylvania Commissioner of Insurance to terminate the fund. In addition, the ACE INA insurance subsidiaries are obligated to provide insurance coverage to Century in the amount of $800 million under an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement if the statutory capital and surplus of Century falls below $25 million or if Century lacks liquid assets with which to pay claims as they become due, after giving effect to contribution of any dividend retention fund balance. Coverage under the aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement was triggered as of December 31, 2002 following contribution of the dividend retention fund balance. Approximately $468 million in undiscounted losses were ceded to the aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement at December 31, 2003. In a lawsuit filed in the state of California in December 1999, certain competitors of ACE USA have challenged the restructuring that resulted in the creation of Brandywine. The restructuring was previously upheld by the Pennsylvania Supreme Court in July 1999. The lawsuit alleges that the restructuring does not effectively relieve the insurance subsidiary that issued the policies prior to the restructuring (Insurance Company of North America) from liabilities for claims on those policies by California policyholders. The California trial court has held in response to a pre trial motion that a California statute does prohibit the transfer of California policies to a subsequent legal entity without the consent of the policyholders and noted that consent was not received in the context of the Brandywine restructuring. ACE intends to appeal this decision. In addition, the liabilities that are the subject of this California lawsuit are included within our A&E reserves for Brandywine. Congress has been working on possible legislation to move all U.S. asbestos bodily injury claims to a federal trust for compensation in accordance with an established set of medical criteria and claim values. The trust would be funded by asbestos defendants and their insurers. As currently proposed, ACE would be one of the insurer participants. We believe that if the proposed legislation is enacted, our ultimate funding obligation under the trust would be less than we would be required to pay under the current tort system because the trust would avoid payments to unimpaired victims and obviate the need for extensive legal costs. However, we cannot predict if any such proposed legislation will be modified or adopted. 57 Table of Contents The table below presents selected loss reserve data for A&E exposures at December 31, 2003 and 2002. December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Net Gross Net Asbestos $ 2,899 $ 277 $ 3,192 $ 446 Environmental and other latent exposures 1,148 250 1,352 403 Total $ 4,047 $ 527 $ 4,544 $ 849 Paid losses for the year ended December 31, 2003 for asbestos claims were $293 million on gross reserves and $169 million on net reserves. Environmental and other latent exposure claim payments were $204 million on gross reserves and $153 million on net reserves in 2003. Survival ratios attempt to measure the adequacy of A&E loss reserves by taking the current ending loss reserve and dividing by the average annual claim payments for the prior three years. We believe this to be a simplistic measure of a very complicated issue. However, we understand this ratio is used as a means to compare companies with A&E exposures. Thus, if we average our last three years of gross A&E claim payments and expect payments to continue at the same pace, our gross survival ratio is 10.3 years. Using the 2003 calendar year payments, our net survival ratio is 9.9 years. The current year survival ratios are adversely affected by the timing of certain previously agreed upon settlements. These settlements were anticipated in our 2002 asbestos study. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate cash flows sufficient to meet short term and long term cash requirements of its business operations. As a holding company, ACE possesses assets that consist primarily of the stock of its subsidiaries, and of other investments. In addition to net investment income, our cash flows currently depend primarily on dividends or other statutorily permissible payments. Historically, these dividends and other payments have come from our Bermuda based operating subsidiaries, which we refer to as our Bermuda subsidiaries. During the year ended December 31, 2003, we were able to meet all of our obligations, including the payment of dividends declared on our ordinary shares and preferred shares, with our net cash flow and dividends received. Should the need arise, we generally have access to the debt markets and other available credit facilities that are discussed below. The payments of dividends or other statutorily permissible distributions from our operating companies are subject to the laws and regulations applicable to each jurisdiction, as well as the need to maintain capital levels adequate to support the insurance and reinsurance operations, including financial strength ratings issued by independent rating agencies, which are discussed later. We assess which subsidiaries to draw dividends from based on a number of factors. Considerations such as regulatory and legal restrictions as well as the subsidiarys financial condition are paramount to the dividend decision. The legal restrictions on the payment of dividends from retained earnings by our Bermuda subsidiaries are currently satisfied by the share capital and additional paid in capital of each of the Bermuda subsidiaries. During 2003, ACE Bermuda declared and paid dividends of $478 million, compared with $345 million and $234 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively. We received dividends of $25 million from ACE Cap Re International Ltd. during 2003. ACE Tempest Life Re declared and paid dividends of $140 million and $105 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively. We expect that a majority of our cash inflows for 2004 will be from our Bermuda subsidiaries. The payment of any dividends from ACE Global Markets or its subsidiaries would be subject to applicable U.K. insurance laws and regulations including those promulgated by the Society of Lloyds. ACE INAs and ACE Financial Services U.S. insurance subsidiaries may pay dividends, without prior regulatory approval, only from earned surplus and subject to certain annual limitations and the maintenance of a minimum capital requirement. ACE INAs international subsidiaries are also subject to insurance laws and regulations particular to the countries in which the subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations include restrictions that limit the amount of dividends payable without prior approval of regulatory insurance authorities. We did not receive any dividends from ACE Global Markets or ACE INA in 2003. Under the Lloyds accounting model, syndicates in Lloyds operate each year as an annual venture. Each year of account is held open for three years. At the end of three years, the year of account purchases reinsurance from the next open year, which is known as reinsurance to close or RITC, and distributes the remaining funds to the investors in the syndicate. ACE Global Markets has historically retained these funds for operational purposes. ACE INA 58 Table of Contents issued debt to provide partial financing for the ACE INA acquisition and for other operating needs. This debt is serviced by dividends paid by ACE INAs insurance subsidiaries to ACE INA as well as other group resources. ACE Financial Services U.S. insurance subsidiaries are limited in their dividend paying abilities due to their need to maintain their AA and AAA financial strength ratings. Our consolidated sources of funds consist primarily of net premiums written, net investment income and proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. Funds are used primarily to pay claims, operating expenses, dividends and for the purchase of investments. After satisfying our cash requirements, excess cash flows from these underwriting and investing activities are invested. Our insurance and reinsurance operations provide liquidity in that premiums are received in advance, sometimes substantially in advance, of the time claims are paid. Our consolidated net cash flows from operating activities were $4.2 billion in 2003 compared with $2.4 billion and $1.4 billion in 2002 and 2001, respectively. The positive operating cash flows were generated from an increase in net premiums written of $2.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2003, and relatively stable net losses and loss expenses paid compared with 2002. The increase in 2002 compared with 2001 was primarily due to the $1.7 billion increase in net premiums written. Generally cash flows are affected by claim payments that, due to the nature of our operations, may comprise large loss payments on a limited number of claims and therefore can fluctuate significantly from year to year. The irregular timing of these loss payments can create significant variations in cash flows from operations between periods. Sources of liquidity include cash from operations, financing arrangements or routine sales of investments. Our consolidated net cash flows used for investing activities increased to $4.7 billion in 2003, compared with $1.9 billion in 2002. This increase primarily reflects our strong consolidated net cash flows from operating activities in 2003. Net cash flows used for investing activities decreased to $1.9 billion in 2002 compared with $2.2 billion in 2001. This decrease is primarily due to our debt repayment activity in 2002, which reduced net cash available for investment. Our consolidated net cash flows from financing activities were $395 million in 2003, compared with usage of $491 million in 2002. The increase is primarily due to the net proceeds from the issuance of preferred shares in 2003, compared with the repayment of trust preferred securities and short term debt in 2002. We reported consolidated net cash flows from financing activities of $896 million in 2001, primarily due to the net proceeds from the issuance of ordinary shares. Although our ongoing operations continue to generate positive cash flows, our cash flows are currently impacted by a large book of loss reserves from businesses in run off. The run off operations generated negative operating cash flows of $645 million in 2003, compared with $525 million and $614 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively, primarily due to claim payments. Both internal and external forces influence our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Claim settlements, premium levels and investment returns may be impacted by changing rates of inflation and other economic conditions. In many cases, significant periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, may lapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us and the settlement of the liability for that loss. We believe that our cash balances, cash flow from operations, routine sales of investments and the liquidity provided by our credit facilities, as discussed below are adequate to meet expected cash requirements. ACE and its subsidiaries are assigned debt and financial strength (insurance) ratings from internationally recognized rating agencies, including S&P, A.M. Best, Moodys Investors Service and Fitch IBCA. The ratings issued on our companies by these agencies are announced publicly and are available directly from the agencies. Our website, acelimited.com, also contains some information about our ratings, which you can find under the Investor Information tab. Financial strength ratings represent the opinions of the rating agencies on the financial strength of a company and its capacity to meet the obligations of insurance policies. Independent ratings are one of the important factors that establish our competitive position in the insurance markets. The rating agencies consider many factors in determining the financial strength rating of an insurance company, including the relative level of statutory surplus necessary to support the business operations of the company. These ratings are based upon factors relevant to policyholders, agents and intermediaries and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities. Debt ratings apply to short and long term debt as well as preferred stock. These ratings are assessments of the likelihood that we will make timely payments of principal and interest and preferred stock dividends. It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies may reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. In addition, our insurance and reinsurance operations could be adversely impacted by a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, including a possible reduction in demand for our products in certain markets. 59 Table of Contents Capital Resources Capital resources consist of funds deployed or available to be deployed to support our business operations. The following table summarizes the components of our capital resources at December 31, 2003 and 2002. (in millions of U.S. dollars) December 312003 December 312002 Short term debt $ 546 $ 146 Long term debt 1,349 1,749 Total debt 1,895 1,895 Trust preferred securities 475 475 Mezzanine equity 311 Preferred shares 557 Ordinary shareholders equity 8,278 6,389 Total shareholders equity 8,835 6,389 Total capitalization $ 11,205 $ 9,070 Ratio of debt to total capitalization 16.9% 20.9% Ratio of debt plus trust preferreds to total capitalization 21.2% 26.1% We believe our financial strength provides us with the flexibility and capacity to obtain funds externally through debt or equity financing on both a short term and long term basis. Our ability to access the capital markets is dependent on, among other things, market conditions and our perceived financial strength. We have accessed both the debt and equity markets from time to time. Mezzanine Equity In 2000, we publicly offered and issued 6,221,000 FELINE PRIDES for aggregate net proceeds of $311 million. Each FELINE PRIDE initially consisted of a unit referred to as an Income PRIDE. Each Income PRIDE consisted of (i) one 8.25 percent Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Share, Series A, liquidation preference $50 per share, and (ii) a purchase contract pursuant to which the holder of the Income PRIDE agreed to purchase from us, on May 16, 2003, $311 million of ordinary shares at the applicable settlement rate. On May 16, 2003, we issued approximately 11.8 million ordinary shares, in satisfaction of the purchase contracts underlying our FELINE PRIDES. In consideration, on June 16, 2003, we redeemed all of our 8.25 percent Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares, Series A, at a rate representing an issuance of 1.8991 ordinary shares per preferred share. Shareholders Equity The following table analyzes the movements in our shareholders equity for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2003 2002 2001 Balance, beginning of year $ 6,389 $ 6,107 $ 5,420 Net income (loss) 1,417 77 (147 ) Change in net unrealized appreciation on investments 208 339 35 Issuance of Preferred Shares 557 Conversion of Mezzanine equity 311 Dividends declared Ordinary Shares (204 ) (173 ) (138 ) Dividends declared Mezzanine equity (10 ) (26 ) (26 ) Dividends declared Preferred Shares (23 ) Cumulative translation adjustments 108 (1 ) (2 ) Other movements, net 82 66 17 Ordinary Shares issued in share offering 1,127 Repurchase of Ordinary Shares (179 ) Balance, end of year $ 8,835 $ 6,389 $ 6,107 60 Table of Contents In May 2003, we sold in a public offering 23 million depositary shares, each representing one tenth of one of our 7.80 percent Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares for $25 per depositary share for net proceeds of $557 million. Gross proceeds from the sale of the preferred shares were $575 million and related expenses were $18 million. We used the net proceeds to make additional capital contributions to some of our subsidiaries and for general corporate purposes. This offering was made under our universal shelf registration statement with the SEC, which became effective in February 2003, allowing us to offer a number of different types of debt and equity securities up to a total offering price of $1.5 billion. Dividends on the preferred shares are payable quarterly, when and if declared by our Boards of Directors, in arrears on March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1 of each year. On September 1, 2003 and December 1, 2003 we paid dividends of $4.9292 and $4.8750 per preferred share to shareholders of record on August 31, 2003 and November 30, 2003, respectively. Our diluted book value per ordinary share increased to $29.46 at December 31, 2003, compared with $24.16 at December 31, 2002. In calculating our diluted book value per ordinary share, we include in the denominator in the money options together with the 11.8 million shares issued upon conversion of the FELINE PRIDES. The expected proceeds from the in the money options are included in the numerator. Shareholders equity increased by $2.4 billion in 2003, compared with 2002. This increase is due to the issuance of the preferred shares; our net income, conversion of the FELINE PRIDES which increased shareholders equity by $311 million, and unrealized gains on our investment portfolio of $208 million. Partially offsetting these increases, were $236 million of dividends declared on mezzanine equity, ordinary and preferred shares in 2003. As part of our capital management program, in November 2001, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of any ACE issued debt or capital securities including ordinary shares, up to $250 million. At December 31, 2003, this authorization had not been utilized. On January 10, 2003 and April 14, 2003, we paid dividends of 17 cents per ordinary share to shareholders of record on December 27, 2002 and March 31, 2003, respectively. On July 14, 2003 and October 14, 2003 and January 14, 2004 we paid dividends of 19 cents per ordinary share to shareholders of record on June 30, 2003, September 30, 2003 and December 31, 2003 respectively. We have paid dividends each quarter since we became a public company in 1993. However, the declaration, payment and value of future dividends on ordinary shares is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our profits, financial requirements and other factors, including legal restrictions on the payment of dividends and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The table below shows our contractual obligations and commitments including our payments due by period: Payments Due By Period (in millions of U.S. dollars) Total Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5Years Contract holder deposit funds $ 94 $ 35 $ 27 $ 20 $ 12 Operating leases 424 75 119 75 155 Short term debt 546 546 Long term debt 1,349 300 749 300 Trust preferred securities 475 475 Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 2,888 $ 656 $ 446 $ 844 $ 942 The above table excludes estimated future cash flows for losses and loss expenses as there is typically no minimum contractual commitment associated with insurance and reinsurance contracts and also the amount and timing of the cash outflows are uncertain. Further, the above table excludes pension obligations. While we expect to contribute approximately $10 million to our defined benefit plans during 2004, minimum funding requirements are minimal over the next year. Subsequent funding commitments are apt to vary for many factors and are difficult to estimate at this time. 61 Table of Contents Contract Holder Deposit Funds Deposit liabilities of $212 million include contract holder deposit funds of $94 million and reinsurance deposit liabilities of $118 million. Contract holder deposit funds represent a liability for investment contracts sold that do not meet the definition of an insurance contract under FAS No. 97, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments. The investment contracts are sold with a guaranteed rate of return. The proceeds are then invested with the intent of realizing a greater return than is called for in the investment contracts. The above table does not include estimated cash flows for deposit liabilities as the amount and timing of cash flows is uncertain. Operating Lease Commitments We lease office space in most countries in which we operate under operating leases that expire at various dates through January 2018. We renew and enter into new leases in the ordinary course of business as required. Short term Debt Included in short term debt is ACE INAs $400 million, 8.2 percent notes which become due on August 15, 2004. We plan to refinance these notes. In June 1999, we arranged certain commercial paper programs. The programs use revolving credit facilities as back up facilities and provide for up to $2.8 billion in commercial paper issuance (subject to the availability of back up facilities, which currently total $750 million) for ACE and for ACE INA. During 2003 and 2002, we substantially reduced our use of commercial paper. From time to time, we also use securities repurchase agreements as a source of short term liquidity. Under these repurchase agreements, we agree to sell securities and repurchase them at a future date for a predetermined price, thereby creating liquidity. The covenants of our existing credit facilities limit our borrowing under repurchase agreements to $800 million. Long term Debt Our total long term debt of $1.3 billion is described in Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following instruments have specific collateral triggers. In 1998, ACE US Holdings issued $250 million of unsecured senior notes that mature in October 2008. In December 1999, ACE INA issued $300 million of unsecured subordinated notes that mature in December 2009. We repaid $100 million of this outstanding amount during 2002. We have a $450 million credit default swap in place that has the economic effect of reducing our cost of borrowing associated with these two issuances. The minimum collateral in connection with the credit default swap is $158 million. The actual collateral can be higher depending on the credit quality of securities pledged. Under these transactions, we would be required to provide collateral of $450 million if S&P downgraded our debt rating to BB+ or lower, or downgraded ACE Bermudas financial strength rating to BBB or lower. Although there can be no assurance, we believe it is unlikely that either of these two events will occur. In the event that we terminate either of the swaps prematurely, we would be liable for certain transaction costs. The counter party in each swap is a highly rated major financial institution and management does not anticipate non performance. Trust Preferred Securities During 1999 and 2000, we issued $800 million of trust preferred securities of which $400 million matured and was repaid in 2002. The funds generated from these issues were used to partially finance the ACE INA acquisition. The securities outstanding consist of: (i) $400 million company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred shares ($100 million and $300 million) issued by two business trusts wholly owned by us; and (ii) $75 million of monthly income preferred securities issued by one of our subsidiary limited liability companies. Each of the three remaining series of trust preferred securities was issued by a special purpose entity that is wholly owned by us; two trusts and a limited liability company. The sole assets of the special purpose entities are debt instruments issued by one or more of our subsidiaries. The special purpose entities look to payments on the debt instruments to make payments on the preferred securities. We have guaranteed the payments on these debt securities. The trustees of the trusts and the managers of the limited liability company include one or more of our officers and at least one independent trustee or manager, such as a bank or trust company. Our officers serving as trustees of the trusts or managers of the limited liability company do not receive any compensation or other remuneration 62 Table of Contents for their services in such capacity. The full $475 million of outstanding trust preferred stock is shown on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability. Additional information with respect to the trust preferred securities is contained in Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Credit Facilities The following table shows our credit facilities by credit line, usage, expiry date and purpose at December 31, 2003. Credit Line Usage Expiry Date Purpose Liquidity Facilities ACE Limited 1 $ 500 $ April 2004 General Corporate ACE Limited 1,2 250 64 May 2005 General Corporate ACE Guaranty Corp 140 May 2004 General Corporate Secured Operational LOC Facilities ACE Group 500 285 Sept. 2006 General Corporate Unsecured Operational LOC Facilities ACE Limited 500 278 Sept. 2004 General Corporate ACE Limited 100 84 Oct. 2004 General Corporate ACE Global Markets 200 200 Oct. 2004 General Corporate ACE Tempest Re 200 133 Dec. 2004 General Corporate ACE International 21 21 Various General Corporate Unsecured Capital Facilities ACE Guaranty Corp 175 Dec. 2010 Rating Agency Capital ACE Global Markets 3 679 674 Nov. 2008 Underwriting capacity for Lloyds Syndicate 2488 2004 capacity of &pound;550 million (approximately $1 billion) Total $ 3,265 $ 1,739 1 Commercial paper back up facility 2 May also be used for LOCs 3 Unsecured letters of credit are placed with Lloyds as capital on behalf of ACEs corporate capital vehicles Some of the facilities noted above require that we maintain certain covenants, all of which have been met at December 31, 2003. These covenants include: (i) maintenance of a minimum consolidated net worth covenant of not less than $4.4 billion plus 25 percent of Consolidated Net Income for each fiscal quarter ending on or after March 31, 2003 for which such Consolidated Net Income is positive, plus 50 percent of net proceeds of any issuance of equity interests (other than the net proceeds from any issuance of equity interests in substitution and replacement of other equity interests to the extent such net proceeds do not exceed the amount of a substantially contemporaneous redemption of equity interests) subsequent to March 31, 2003; and (ii) maintenance of a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of not greater than 0.35 to 1. Under this covenant, debt does not include trust preferred securities or mezzanine equity, except where the ratio of the sum of trust preferred securities and mezzanine equity to total capitalization is greater than 15 percent. In this circumstance, the amount greater than 15 percent would be included in the debt to total capitalization ratio. At December 31, 2003, (a) the minimum consolidated net worth requirement under the covenant described in (i) above was $5.2 billion and our actual consolidated net worth as calculated under that covenant was $8.1 billion; and (b) our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 0.17 to 1. Certain facilities are guaranteed by either operating subsidiaries or ACE Limited. In addition to these covenants, the ACE Global Markets capital facility requires that collateral be posted if the financial strength rating of ACE Limited falls to S&P BBB+ or lower. Prior to November 2003 (the renewal date of the ACE Global Markets unsecured LOC), this requirement related to ACE Bermuda. 63 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with the covenants under any credit facility would, subject to grace periods in the case of certain covenants, result in an event of default. This could require us to repay any outstanding borrowings or to cash collateralize letters of credit under such facility. An event of default under one or more credit facilities with outstanding credit extensions of $25 million or more would result in an event of default under all of the facilities described above. As our Bermuda subsidiaries are not admitted insurers and reinsurers in the U.S., the terms of certain insurance and reinsurance contracts require them to provide LOCs to clients. In addition, ACE Global Markets is required to satisfy certain U.S. regulatory trust fund requirements which can be met by the issuance of LOCs. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2(p) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Market Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. We are exposed to potential loss to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Our investment portfolio consists of both fixed income and equity securities, denominated in both U.S. and foreign currencies, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Therefore our net income is affected by changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. We use investment derivative instruments such as futures, options, interest rate swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage the duration of our investment portfolio and foreign currency exposures and also to obtain exposure to a particular financial market. These instruments are sensitive to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity security prices. The portfolio includes other market sensitive instruments, which are subject to changes in market values with changes in interest rates. Duration Management and Market Exposure Management We use financial futures, options, interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts for the purpose of managing certain investment portfolio exposures. These instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements and changes in market value are included in net realized gains or losses in the consolidated statements of operations. Our exposure to interest rate risk is concentrated in our fixed income portfolio, and to a lesser extent, our debt obligations. An increase in interest rates of 100 basis points applied instantly across the yield curve would have resulted in a decrease in the market value of our fixed income portfolio of 3.4 percent at December 31, 2003 compared with 3.1 percent at December 31, 2002. This equates to a decrease in market value of approximately $696 million on a fixed income portfolio valued at $20.6 billion at December 31, 2003. This compares with an approximately $488 million decrease in market value on a fixed income portfolio valued at $15.7 billion at December 31, 2002. An immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario. Our portfolio of equity securities, which we carry on our balance sheet at fair value, has exposure to price risk. This risk is defined as the potential loss in fair value resulting from adverse changes in stock prices. In addition, we attain exposure to the equity markets through the use of derivative instruments which also have exposure to price risk. Our U.S. equity portfolio is highly correlated with the S&P 500 index and changes in that index would approximate the impact on our portfolio. Our international equity portfolio has exposure to a broad range of non U.S. equity markets, primarily in those countries where we have insurance operations. This portfolio is correlated to movement in each of these countries broad equity market. The combined equity exposure through both our portfolios of equity securities and derivative instruments was valued at $662 million at December 31, 2003 compared with $603 million at December 31, 2002. A hypothetical ten percent decline in the price of each stock in our portfolio of equity securities and the index correlated to the derivative instruments would have resulted in a $66 million decline in fair value at December 31, 2003. This compares to a decline of $60 million at December 31, 2002. Changes in fair value of these derivative instruments are recorded as net realized gains (losses) in the consolidated statements of operations. Changes in the fair value of our equity portfolio are recorded as unrealized appreciation (depreciation) and are included as other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. Many of our non U.S. companies maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Therefore, exchange rate risk is generally limited to net assets denominated in those foreign currencies. Foreign exchange risk is reviewed as part of our risk management 64 Table of Contents process. Locally required capital levels are invested in home currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements, and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. Derivatives FAS 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts (collectively referred to as derivatives), and for hedging activities, and requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value. We maintain investments in derivative instruments such as futures, options, interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts for which the primary purposes are to manage duration and foreign currency exposure, yield enhancement or to obtain an exposure to a particular financial market. If certain conditions are met, a derivative may be specifically designated as a fair value cash flow or foreign currency hedge. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative (that is, gains and losses) depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation. Upon application of FAS 133, hedging relationships must be designated and documented pursuant to the provisions of this statement. We had no derivatives that were designated as hedges at December 31, 2003, 2002 or 2001. Certain products (principally credit protection oriented) issued by the Financial Services segment have been determined to meet the definition of a derivative under FAS 133. The Critical Accounting Estimates section of the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition has more information relating to these products. 
 
