Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the years ended December 31, (in millions of U.S. dollars, except share, per share data andselected data) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Operations data: Net premiums earned $ 11,748 $ 11,110 $ 9,727 $ 6,904 $ 6,038 Net investment income 1,264 1,013 900 812 802 Net realized gains (losses) 76 197 265 (489 ) (58 ) Losses and loss expenses 8,571 7,690 6,167 4,973 4,724 Life and annuity benefits 143 175 182 158 401 Policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses 2,931 2,830 2,539 1,879 1,613 Interest expense 174 183 177 193 199 Other (income) expense (32 ) 3 34 36 10 Income tax expense (benefit) 273 286 311 (112 ) (89 ) Amortization of goodwill 82 Income (loss) before cumulative effect 1,028 1,153 1,482 100 (158 ) Cumulative effect of adopting a new accounting standard (net of income tax) (23 ) Net income (loss) 1,028 1,153 1,482 100 (181 ) Dividends on Preferred Shares (45 ) (45 ) (26 ) Dividends on Mezzanine equity (10 ) (26 ) (25 ) Net income (loss) available to holders of Ordinary Shares $ 983 $ 1,108 $ 1,446 $ 74 $ (206 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share before cumulative effect of adopting a new accounting standard(1) $ 3.31 $ 3.88 $ 5.25 $ 0.27 $ (0.88 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share(1) $ 3.31 $ 3.88 $ 5.25 $ 0.27 $ (0.78 ) Balance sheet data (at end of period): Total investments $ 31,922 $ 26,925 $ 22,555 $ 17,555 $ 15,197 Cash 512 498 559 661 668 Total assets 62,440 56,183 49,317 43,874 37,186 Net unpaid losses and loss expenses 20,458 17,517 14,674 11,988 10,617 Net future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts 510 494 477 433 377 Long term debt 1,811 1,849 1,349 1,749 1,349 Trust preferred securities 309 412 475 475 875 Total liabilities 50,628 46,338 40,494 37,292 30,863 Mezzanine equity 311 311 Shareholders equity 11,812 9,845 8,823 6,271 6,011 Book value per share $ 34.81 $ 32.65 $ 29.53 $ 23.87 $ 23.13 Selected data Loss and loss expense ratio(2) 74.5% 70.7% 64.6% 73.7% 83.9% Underwriting and administrative expense ratio(3) 25.1% 25.7% 26.4% 27.5% 28.5% Combined ratio(4) 99.6% 96.4% 91.0% 101.2% 112.4% Net loss reserves to capital and surplus ratio(5) 177.5% 182.9% 171.7% 198.1% 182.9% Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 297,299,883 285,485,472 275,655,969 269,870,023 233,799,588 Cash dividends per share $ 0.90 $ 0.82 $ 0.74 $ 0.66 $ 0.58 (1) Diluted earnings (loss) per share is calculated by dividing net income (loss) available to holders of Ordinary Shares by weighted average shares outstanding diluted. (2) The loss and loss expense ratio is calculated by dividing the losses and loss expenses by net premiums earned excluding life insurance and reinsurance premiums. Net premiums earned for life insurance and reinsurance were $248 million, $226 million, $187 million, $158 million and $406 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. (3) The underwriting and administrative expense ratio is calculated by dividing the policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses by net premiums earned excluding life insurance and reinsurance premiums. 36 (4) The combined ratio is the sum of the loss and loss expense ratio and the underwriting and administrative expense ratio. (5) The net loss reserves to capital and surplus ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of the net unpaid losses and loss expenses and net future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts by shareholders equity. ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity and capital resources as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes presented on pages F 1 to F 66 of this Form 10 K. The summary financial statements reported in the January 31, 2006 press release were amended to include corrections and reclassifications to the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005 and the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 filed with this Form 10 K. Net income was reduced by $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 primarily due to an increase in losses and loss expenses, a reduction of administrative expenses and related income tax impact within the Insurance North American segment. Overview Our long term business strategy focuses on sustained growth in book value achieved through a combination of underwriting and investment income. By doing so, we provide value to our clients and shareholders through the utilization of our substantial capital base in the insurance and reinsurance markets. ACEs senior management is well seasoned in the insurance industry and its attention to operational efficiency, maintaining balance sheet strength, and enforcing strong underwriting and financial discipline across the whole organization has laid the foundation for sustained earnings and book value growth. As an insurance and reinsurance company, we generate gross revenues from two principal sources, premiums which are usually paid in advance of loss payments, and investment income. Cash flow is generated from premiums collected and investment income received less paid losses and loss expenses, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses. Invested assets are generally held in liquid, investment grade fixed income securities of relatively short duration. We also invest a small portion of our assets in less liquid or higher risk assets in an attempt to achieve higher risk adjusted returns. Claims payments in any short term period are highly unpredictable due to the random nature of loss events and the timing of claims awards or settlements. The value of investments held to pay future claims is subject to market forces such as the level of interest rates, stock market volatility and credit events such as corporate defaults. The actual cost of claims is also volatile based on loss trends, inflation rates, court awards and catastrophes. We believe that our cash balances, our highly liquid investments, credit facilities and reinsurance protection provide sufficient liquidity to meet any unforeseen claim demands that might occur in the year ahead. ACE is organized along a profit center structure that does not necessarily correspond to corporate legal entities. Profit centers can access various legal entities, subject to licensing and other regulatory rules. Profit centers are expected to generate an underwriting income and appropriate risk adjusted returns. This corporate structure has facilitated the development of management talent by giving each profit centers senior management team the necessary autonomy to make operating decisions and create products and coverages needed by its target customer base. ACE is an underwriting company and senior management is focused on delivering underwriting income on a consistent basis. We strive to achieve underwriting income by only writing policies which we believe adequately compensate us for the risk we accept. We will not sacrifice underwriting income for growth. Distinction in service is an additional area of focus and a means to set ACE apart from its competition. The insurance industry is highly competitive, with many companies including several new entrants, offering similar coverage. The rates, terms and conditions related to the products we offer have historically changed depending on the timing of the insurance cycle. During periods of excess underwriting capacity, as defined by availability of capital, competition can result in lower pricing and less favorable terms and conditions. During periods of reduced underwriting capacity, pricing and terms and conditions are generally more favorable. Over the past two years, the insurance industry has faced an unprecedented series of natural catastrophes during 2005, we incurred net catastrophe related pre tax charges of $1.3 billion, compared with $510 million in 2004. This has reduced the availability of capital in our industry and caused rate increases on certain lines, particularly in the areas impacted by the natural catastrophes. In order to take advantage of what we believe will be future growth opportunities in both the insurance and reinsurance markets, on October 4, 2005, we completed a public offering of 37 32.91 million Ordinary Shares, including an over allotment option of 4.29 million Ordinary Shares (the public offering), at a price per share of $45.58, for net proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion. Insurance Industry Investigations and Related Matters Information on the insurance industry investigations and related matters is set forth in Note 7 e) of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Catastrophe Exposure Management We have exposure to catastrophic event risks from global insurance and reinsurance writings of property and workers compensation and, to a lesser extent, marine, aviation and energy. This potential loss accumulation, caused by either man made (for example, terrorism, aviation) or natural perils (for example, hurricane, earthquake) is addressed using several different approaches. First, we have established a series of Product Boards to ensure that geographic, product and client exposures are appropriate and meet both account level and portfolio limit guidelines adopted by the Boards. Second, we have a standardized modeling approach across ACE that utilizes a third party catastrophe simulation software package as the basis for preparing probabilistic estimates of ACEs potential catastrophic loss. Each unit with catastrophe exposure is required to model, price and manage its catastrophe risk using the output analytics from the software and this output also allows the aggregation of risk within and across business units. We continually examine the reasonableness of the modeling assumptions and their applicability to reflect the catastrophic loss potential of our various businesses. In addition, we maintain minimum data quality standards that must be met in order to quote and bind business. The aggregation of risk across units, products, perils and geography is performed across ACE on a quarterly basis to provide an overall assessment of risk and the results reviewed by senior management each quarter. Management maintains a prudent level of risk through a series of related accumulation thresholds that cap the net retention from single or multiple events; the probability of exhaustion of core catastrophe reinsurance programs, and the net catastrophe loss relative to tangible capital (shareholders equity less goodwill). Third, where the risk / return economics are effective, reinsurance is purchased from reinsurers of appropriate quality and security to protect the business unit level from accumulations arising either within product, peril or business unit or across a combination thereof such that the aggregate risk from a catastrophe loss is appropriate to the units capital structure. Despite the above controls there remains uncertainty about the characteristics, timing and extent of insured loss given the nature of catastrophes. Catastrophe Loss Charges During 2005, we incurred net catastrophe related pre tax charges of $1.3 billion, primarily associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. In 2004, we incurred net catastrophe related pre tax charges of $510 million primarily associated with hurricanes which struck the Caribbean and the U.S. On August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina, a Category 4 storm, struck the Gulf Coast of the United States. The hurricane and the subsequent flooding caused by the failure of the levee system in New Orleans produced significant losses. Due to the size and complexity of the storm and flooding, total covered losses for the insurance industry remain hard to predict, however, industry sources have estimated that the losses arising out of Hurricane Katrina will result in the largest insured loss in history. ACEs Hurricane Katrina losses were $598 million after tax, reinstatement premiums and premiums earned on multi year contracts. Hurricane Rita struck the Gulf Coast of the United States as a Category 3 hurricane on September 24, 2005. ACEs Hurricane Rita losses were $165 million after tax, reinstatement premiums and premiums earned on multi year contracts. Hurricane Wilma, a category 4 storm, initially struck Mexicos Yucatan Peninsula and then Florida in late October. ACEs Hurricane Wilma losses were $251 million after tax, reinstatement premiums and premiums earned on multi year contracts. Also included in 2005 are losses associated with Hurricanes Dennis and Ophelia, Typhoon Nabi and European floods, which totaled $35 million, after tax and reinstatement premiums. These amounts were based on ground up reviews of a substantial majority of our in force direct policies and internal modeling of our in force reinsurance policies we believe to be affected, together with information from our insureds and cedents which is still being received and evaluated. Actual losses may vary materially from these amounts as a result of, among other things, the receipt of additional information from insureds or brokers, the attribution of losses to coverages that, for the purpose of our calculations, we assumed would not be exposed and inflation in repair costs due to the limited availability of labor and materials. In addition, our Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita losses are subject to a high level of uncertainty due to extremely complex and unique causation and coverage issues 38 associated with the events, including the attribution of losses to wind or flood damage or other perils, potential legal and regulatory developments related to potential losses, as well as inflation in repair costs due to the limited availability of labor and materials due in part to the size and proximity in time and distance of the two hurricanes. We expect that these issues may become subject to litigation by state attorneys general and private parties and will not be resolved for a considerable period of time. As a result, although we believe our reserves for these events are adequate, both industry wide insured losses and our losses from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita may ultimately be materially greater or lower than our initial reported losses and any additional losses could have a further material adverse impact on our financial results. The following tables show the impact of catastrophe charges on each of our operating segments in 2005 and 2004. This information is based on currently available information derived from modeling techniques, industry assessments of exposure and claims information obtained from our clients and brokers. Actual losses from these events may vary materially from our estimates due to the inherent uncertainties in making such determinations resulting from several factors, including the potential inaccuracies and inadequacies in the data provided by clients and brokers, the modeling techniques and the application of such techniques, as well as the high frequency of recent catastrophic events and the effects of any resultant demand surge on claims activity. 2005 Catastrophe LossCharges By Event (in millions of U.S. dollars) Insurance NorthAmerican Insurance OverseasGeneral GlobalReinsurance ConsolidatedP&C FinancialServices Total Gross loss $ 2,954 Net loss First Quarter Storms $ $ $ 3 $ 3 $ $ 3 Hurricane Dennis 12 2 12 26 26 Hurricane Katrina 180 86 335 601 195 796 Hurricane Rita 55 50 89 194 15 209 Hurricane Wilma 70 63 152 285 30 315 Other (1) 10 10 10 Total $ 317 $ 201 $ 601 $ 1,119 $ 240 $ 1,359 Reinstatement premiums (earned) expensed (net) $ 76 $ 38 $ (46 ) $ 68 $ $ 68 Premiums earned on multi year contracts (net) (148 ) (148 ) Total impact before income tax $ 393 $ 239 $ 555 $ 1,187 $ 92 $ 1,279 Income tax benefit (128 ) (71 ) (31 ) (230 ) (230 ) Total impact after income tax $ 265 $ 168 $ 524 $ 957 $ 92 $ 1,049 Effective tax rate 33% 30% 6% 19% % 18% (1) Includes Hurricane Ophelia, Typhoon Nabi and European floods. 39 2004 Catastrophe LossCharges By Event (in millions of U.S. dollars) Insurance NorthAmerican Insurance OverseasGeneral GlobalReinsurance ConsolidatedP&C FinancialServices Total Gross loss $ 909 Net loss Hurricane Charley $ 31 $ $ 64 $ 95 $ $ 95 Hurricane Frances 22 6 65 93 5 98 Hurricane Ivan 40 20 71 131 5 136 Hurricane Jeanne 33 18 71 122 1 123 Typhoons 9 30 39 39 Other 8 8 8 Total $ 126 53 309 488 11 499 Reinstatement premiums (earned) expensed (net) $ 13 $ 13 $ (15 ) $ 11 $ $ 11 Total impact before income tax $ 139 66 294 499 $ 11 $ 510 Income tax benefit (41 ) $ (21 ) $ (11 ) $ (73 ) (73 ) Total impact after income tax $ 98 $ 45 $ 283 $ 426 $ 11 $ 437 Effective tax rate 29% 32% 4% 15% 14% Sale of Financial and Mortgage Guaranty Business through Assured Guaranty Ltd. On April 28, 2004, we sold 65.3 percent of our financial and mortgage guaranty reinsurance and insurance businesses through the initial public offering (IPO) of 49 million common shares of Assured Guaranty Ltd. (Assured Guaranty). Immediately, subsequent to the completion of the IPO, we beneficially owned 26 million common shares or 34.7 percent of Assured Guarantys outstanding common shares and, accordingly, no longer consolidate our interest in the Assured Guaranty companies. We account for our retained interest under the equity method and reflect the value of our investment in Investments in partially owned insurance companies within our consolidated balance sheet and the proportionate share of earnings reflected in Other (income) expense within our consolidated statement of operations. Critical Accounting Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements include amounts that, either by their nature or due to requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), are determined using best estimates and assumptions. While we believe that the amounts included in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect our best judgment, actual amounts could ultimately materially differ from those currently presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe the items that require the most subjective and complex estimates are: unpaid losses and loss expense reserves, including asbestos reserves; reinsurance recoverable, including our provision for uncollectible reinsurance; impairments to the carrying value of our investment portfolio; the valuation of deferred tax assets; the fair value of certain derivatives; the valuation of goodwill; and assessment of risk transfer for certain structured insurance and reinsurance contracts. We believe our accounting policies for these items are of critical importance to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion provides more information regarding the estimates and assumptions required to arrive at these amounts and should be read in conjunction with the sections entitled: Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities, Reinsurance, Investments, Net Realized Gains (Losses) and Other Income and Expense Items. 40 Unpaid losses and loss expenses As an insurance and reinsurance company, we are required, by applicable laws and regulations and U.S. GAAP, to establish loss and loss expense reserves for the estimated unpaid portion of the ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses under the terms of our policies and agreements with our insured and reinsured customers. The estimate of the unpaid liabilities includes provision for claims that have been reported but unpaid at the balance sheet date (case reserves) and for future obligations from claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR) at the balance sheet date. The loss reserve also includes an estimate of expenses associated with processing and settling these unpaid claims (loss expenses). At December 31 2005, our unpaid losses and loss expense reserve was $35 billion. With the exception of certain structured settlements, for which the timing and amount of future claim payments are reliably determinable, our loss reserves are not discounted for time value. In connection with such structured settlements, we carry reserves of $121 million. The process of establishing loss reserves for property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments based on circumstances known at the date of accrual. These estimates and judgments are based on numerous factors, and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methodologies are developed or as current laws change. Hence, ultimate loss payments will differ from the estimate of the ultimate liability made at the balance sheet date. Changes to our previous estimates of prior year loss reserves can impact the reported calendar year underwriting results by reducing our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be deficient or improving our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be redundant. The potential for variation in loss reserves is impacted by numerous factors, which we explain below. We establish loss and loss expense reserves for all of the insurance and reinsurance business that we write and have actuarial staff within each of our operating segments who analyze insurance reserves and regularly evaluate the levels of loss reserves, taking into consideration factors that may impact the ultimate value of the losses. When we establish loss reserves at each balance sheet date, we must make an estimate of IBNR for which there is limited information. As a result, historical experience and other statistical information are used to project the ultimate claims cost. To determine the reserves for a particular line of business, we may perform one or more reserving methods to estimate ultimate losses and loss expenses and select from these a single point estimate. These methods may include, but are not necessarily limited to, extrapolation of our reported and paid losses based on previous experience, application of industry loss development patterns to our reported or paid losses, or expected loss ratios developed by management based on prior company and industry experience. The underlying judgments and assumptions that may be incorporated into these actuarial projection models include, but are not necessarily limited to, adjustments of the historical data to exclude the potential distorting effect on the loss projections arising from catastrophe claims or other major claims with unusual features, the derivation and selection of factors used to project claims from known to ultimate cost using data with limited or volatile historical loss experience, adjustments to actuarial models and related data for known business changes, such as changes in coverage provided by insurance contracts or business mix, and the potential impact of recent or pending litigation on future claim settlements. Our reserves are established as managements best estimate of the provision for future unpaid claims. Each product line has an actuarial reserve review performed and a best estimate established at the reviews conclusion following the evaluation of one or more estimates developed during the review. The process to select the best estimate, when more than one estimate is available, may differ across lines of business. However, the objective of such a process is to determine a single best estimate that we believe represents a better estimate than any other. Such an estimate is viewed to support the most likely outcome of ultimate loss settlements and is determined based on several factors, including but not limited to, the segmentation of data to provide sufficient homogeneity and credibility for loss projection methods to apply, the extent of historical data and reliance on such data or industry data within the underlying reserve methodology, the historical variability of loss estimates compared with actual loss experience for the product line or comparable product lines, and nature and extent of underlying assumptions. Depending on the facts and circumstances of each product line, the determination of a single best estimate may be accomplished by selecting a single point estimate when one estimate is determined to reflect a better estimate than the other point estimates or using a probability weighted average approach when more than one estimate is viewed to be reasonable. For example, an actuary may select loss reserves developed using an incurred loss development approach instead of a paid loss development approach as the best estimate when reported losses are viewed to be a more credible indication of the ultimate loss compared with paid losses. The actuaries evaluation process to determine a best estimate involves collaboration with underwriting, claims, legal and finance departments and culminates with the input of reserve 41 committees. Each business unit reserve committee includes the participation of the relevant parties from actuarial, finance, claims and executive management and has the responsibility for finalizing and approving the point estimate to be used as our best estimate. Reserves are further reviewed by ACEs Chief Actuary and senior management. We do not calculate a range of loss reserve estimates for our individual loss reserve studies. Actuarial ranges are not a true reflection of the potential volatility between loss reserves estimated at the balance sheet date and the ultimate settlement of losses. This is due to the fact that an actuarial range is developed based on known events as of the valuation date whereas actual volatility or prior period development has historically been reported in subsequent Consolidated Financial Statements, in part from events and circumstances that were unknown as of the original valuation date. We do believe, however, that while our recorded reserves are reasonable and represent managements best estimate for each individual study, based on known events, our total recorded loss reserves at December 31, 2005, are unlikely to vary by more than ten percent of the recorded amounts, either positively or negatively, based on actual claims emergence over the last several years, excluding A&E development. Historically, including A&E reserve charges, our reserves have developed in excess of ten percent of recorded amounts. Refer to Analysis of Losses and Loss Expense Development, under Item 1 for a summary of historical volatility between estimated loss reserves and ultimate loss settlements. While we perform annual loss reserve studies for all product lines, the timing of such studies vary throughout the year. Additionally, for each product line, we review the emergence of actual losses relative to expectations used in reserving each quarter. If warranted from findings in loss emergence tests, we will accelerate the timing of our product line reserve studies. The following is a discussion of specific reserving considerations by type of claim: Short tail business, such as property coverages Short tail business describes lines of business for which losses are usually known and paid shortly after the loss actually occurs. This would include, for example, most property, personal accident, aviation hull and automobile physical damage policies that are written. Long tail business, such as casualty coverages Long tail business describes lines of business for which specific losses may not be known for some period and losses take much longer to emerge. This includes most casualty lines such as general liability, directors and officers liability (D&O) and workers compensation. There are many factors contributing to the uncertainty and volatility of long tail business. Among these are: Given the recent expansion of this business, our historical experience is often too immature to place reliance upon for reserving purposes. Instead, particularly for newer lines of business, reserve methods are based on industry loss ratios or development patterns that reflect the nature and coverage of the underwritten business and its future development. For new or growing lines of business, actual loss experience is apt to differ from industry loss statistics that are based on averages as well as loss experience of previous underwriting years; The inherent uncertainty of the length of paid and reporting development patterns; The possibility of future litigation, legislative or judicial change that might impact future loss experience relative to prior loss experience relied upon in loss reserve analyses; Loss reserve analyses typically require loss or other data be grouped by common characteristics in some manner. If data from two combined lines of business exhibit different characteristics, such as loss payment patterns, the credibility of the reserve estimate could be affected. Because casualty lines of business can have various intricacies in their underlying coverage, there is an inherent risk as to the homogeneity of the underlying data used in performing reserve analyses. The estimation of unpaid losses and loss expense reserves can also be affected by the layer at which a particular contract or set of contracts is written. In the case of direct insurance, where the insurer is taking on risk in the lower value end of the particular contract, the experience will tend to be more frequency driven. These lines of business allow for more traditional actuarial methods to be used in determining loss reserve levels, as it is customary to have more historical experience to rely upon. In the case of excess of loss contracts, the experience will tend to be more of a severity nature, as only a significant loss will enter the layer. For structured or unique contracts, most common to the financial solutions business and to a lesser extent our reinsurance business, traditional actuarial methods for setting loss reserves (such as loss development triangles), have to be tempered with an analysis of each contracts terms, 42 original pricing information, subsequent internal and external analyses of the ongoing contracts, market exposures and history, and qualitative input from claims managers. We continually evaluate our reserve estimates taking into account new information and discussion and negotiation with our insureds. We estimate the ultimate loss amounts by projecting losses as of the valuation date using loss development patterns derived from historical data. In addition, a tail factor is applied to the projected loss amount to reflect further potential development beyond the period of historical record. While we believe our reserve for unpaid losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2005 is adequate, new information or trends, such as judicial action broadening the scope of coverage or expanding liability, may lead to future developments in ultimate losses and loss expenses significantly greater or less than the reserve provided, which could have a material adverse effect on future operating results. Particularly significant variables for which a change in assumption could have a material effect on unpaid losses and loss expenses include, but are not limited to, the following: Insurance North American Given the long reporting and paid development pattern, the tail factors used to project actual current losses to ultimate losses for claims covered by our middle market workers compensation policies require considerable judgment that could be material to consolidated losses and loss expense reserves. Specifically, a one percent change in the tail factor could cause approximately a $51 million change, either positively or negatively, for the selected net loss and loss expense ultimate for that segment. We believe that our selected tail factors represent the most likely loss development based on historical loss payment patterns of this and other comparable long tail lines of business as well as the current legal and economic environment. The actual tail factor could vary by several percentage points from the tail factor selected. Because tail factors are stated in terms of decimals (e.g., 1.125) and often, the actuarys choice regarding reasonably supportable tail factors range within percentages of each other, the realistic change in tail factors can be expressed in percentage points. Our ACE Bermuda operations write predominantly high excess liability coverage on an occurrence first reported basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $300 million and limits of $100 million gross), and D&O and other professional liability coverage on a claims made basis (generally with gross limits of $50 million or less). Claims development for this business can vary significantly for individual claims and historically could vary by as much as $50 million per claim for professional liability and $100 million per claim for excess liability depending on the nature of the loss. Insurance Overseas General Certain international long tail lines, such as casualty and professional lines, are particularly susceptible to changes in loss trend and claim inflation. Heightened perceptions of tort and settlement awards around the world are increasing the demand for these products as well as contributing to the uncertainty of the reserving estimates. Our reserving methods rely heavily on loss development patterns estimated from historical data and while we attempt to adjust such factors for known changes in the current tort environment, it is possible that such factors may not entirely reflect all recent trends in tort environments. For example, the lengthening by six months of our selected loss development patterns used to project current losses to ultimate loss estimates could increase reserve estimates on long tail casualty and professional lines by approximately $200 million. Global Reinsurance Typically there is inherent uncertainty around the length of paid and reporting development patterns, especially for certain casualty lines such as excess workers compensation or general liability, which may take up to 30 years to fully develop. This uncertainty is accentuated by the need to supplement client development patterns with industry development patterns as justified by the credibility of the data. The underlying source and selection of the final development pattern can thus have a significant impact on the selected net loss and loss expense ultimate. For example, a ten percent slowing or quickening of the development pattern for US long tail lines could cause the ultimate loss derived by the reported Bornhuetter Ferguson method for these lines to change by as much as four percent, or $46 million. Asbestos and Environmental Reserves (A&E) Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are liabilities for asbestos and environmental claims and expenses (A&E). These claims are principally related to claims arising from remediation costs associated with hazardous 43 waste sites and bodily injury claims related to exposure to asbestos products and environmental hazards. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to the recent legal environment, including specific settlements that may be used as precedents to settle future claims. Our A&E reserves, and our range of estimates are not discounted and do not reflect any anticipated changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. Accordingly, our A&E reserves make no allowance for future state or federal asbestos reforms, such as those currently being contemplated. The majority of our reserve increase in the fourth quarter of 2004 arose with the strengthening of a core group of major accounts impacted by changes in the asbestos industry landscape. In particular, our estimates of future liability were impacted by the continued negative effect of bankruptcies and an increase in defense costs to litigate cases. There are many complex variables that we consider when estimating the reserves for our inventory of asbestos accounts and these variables may directly impact the predicted outcome. We believe the most significant variables relating to our A&E reserves include assumptions regarding multiple recoveries by claimants against various defendants; the ability of a claimant to bring a claim in a state in which they have no residency or exposure; the ability of a policyholder to claim the right to non products coverage; whether high level excess policies have the potential to be accessed given the policyholders claim trends and liability situation; payments to unimpaired claimants and the potential liability of peripheral defendants. Based on the policies, the facts, the law and a careful analysis of the impact that these risk factors will likely have on any given account, we estimate the potential liability for indemnity, policyholder defense costs and coverage litigation expense. The results in asbestos cases announced by other carriers may well have little or no relevance to us because coverage exposures are highly dependent upon the specific facts of individual coverage and resolution status of disputes among carrier, policyholder and claimants. Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information. Reinsurance recoverable Reinsurance recoverable includes the balances due to us from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses, and are presented net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is determined based upon a review of the financial condition of the reinsurers and other factors. We determine the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses using actuarial estimates as well as a determination of our ability to cede unpaid losses and loss expenses under existing reinsurance contracts. The recognition of a reinsurance recoverable asset requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves our estimation of the amount of gross reserves and the percentage of which shall be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR, which is a major component of the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, is generally developed as part of our loss reserving process and consequently, its estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross IBNR (see Critical Accounting Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses). The second judgment involves our estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that we may ultimately be unable to recover from reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable asset and, in turn, shareholders equity. Changes in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance are reflected in net income. At December 31, 2005, the net reinsurance recoverable balance was $15.5 billion and included $15.1 billion of reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, less a provision for uncollectible reinsurance of $451 million. The net unpaid recoverables consist of ceded IBNR of $8.7 billion and ceded case reserves of $5.9 billion. Also included are $1.2 billion of reinsurance recoverable on paid loss and loss adjustment expenses, less a provision for uncollectible reinsurance of $336 million. At December 31, 2005, $3.4 billion (22 percent) of our $15.5 billion of net reinsurance recoverable was either rated below A or not rated. We have approximately $1.0 billion of useable collateral against the $3.4 billion. Additionally, the $3.4 billion includes $520 million related to structured settlements, which are primarily annuities purchased from life insurance companies for the purpose of settling workers compensation claims. These are not subject to disputes. Although the contractual obligation of individual reinsurers to pay their reinsurance obligations is based on specific contract provisions, the collectibility of such amounts requires significant estimation by management. The majority of the balance we have accrued as recoverable will not be due for collection until sometime in the future (in some cases several decades from now). Over this period of time, economic conditions and operational performance of a particular reinsurer may impact their ability to meet these obligations and while they may continue to acknowledge their contractual obligation to do so, they may not have the financial resources or willingness to fully meet their obligation to us. 44 To estimate the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, the reinsurance recoverable must first be determined for each reinsurer. This determination is based on a process rather than an estimate, although an element of judgment must be applied. As part of this process, ceded IBNR is allocated by reinsurance agreement, and then by reinsurer, because ceded IBNR is not generally calculated on an agreement by agreement basis. The allocations are generally based on premiums ceded under reinsurance agreements, as adjusted for actual loss experience and historical relationships between gross and ceded losses. If actual experience varies materially from historical experience, including that used to determine ceded premium, the allocation of reinsurance recoverable by reinsurer will change. While such change is unlikely to result in a large percentage change in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, it could, nevertheless, have a material effect on our net income in the period recorded. Generally, we use a default analysis to estimate uncollectible reinsurance. The primary components of the default analysis are reinsurance recoverable balances by reinsurer, net of collateral, and default factors used to estimate the probability that the reinsurer may be unable to meet its future obligations in full. The definition of collateral for this purpose requires some judgment and is generally limited to assets held in an ACE only beneficiary trust, letters of credit, and liabilities held by us with the same legal entity for which we believe there is a right of offset. We do not currently include multi beneficiary trusts. However we have several reinsurers that have established multi beneficiary trusts for which certain ACE companies are beneficiaries. The determination of the default factor is principally based on the financial strength rating of the reinsurer and a default factor applicable to the financial strength rating. Default factors require considerable judgment and are determined using the current financial strength rating, or rating equivalent, of each reinsurer as well as other key considerations and assumptions. The more significant considerations and assumptions include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: For reinsurers that maintain a financial strength rating from a major ratings agency, and for which recoverable balances are considered representative of the larger population (i.e., default probabilities are consistent with similarly rated reinsurers and payment durations conform to averages), the judgment exercised by management to determine the provision for uncollectible reinsurance of each reinsurer is typically limited because the financial rating is based on a published source and the default factor we apply is based on a default factor of a major ratings agency applicable to the particular rating class. Default factors applied for financial ratings of AAA, AA, A, BBB, BB, B, CCC, are 0.5 percent, 1.2 percent, 1.9 percent, 4.7 percent, 9.6 percent, 23.8 percent, and 49.7 percent, respectively. Because the model we use is predicated on the default factors of a major ratings agency, we do not generally consider alternative factors. However, when a recoverable is expected to be paid in a brief period of time by a highly rated reinsurer, such as certain property catastrophe claims, a default factor may not be applied. For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are both unrated by a major rating agency and for which management is unable to determine a credible rating equivalent based on a parent, affiliate or peer company, we determine a rating equivalent based on an analysis of the reinsurer that considers an assessment of the creditworthiness of the particular entity, industry benchmarks, or other factors as considered appropriate. We then apply the applicable default factor for that rating class. For balances recoverable from unrated reinsurers for which our ceded reserve is below a certain threshold, we generally apply a default factor of 25 percent. For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are either insolvent or under regulatory supervision, we establish a default factor and resulting provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on specific facts and circumstances surrounding each company. Upon initial notification of an insolvency, we generally recognize expense for a substantial portion of all balances outstanding, net of collateral, through a combination of write offs of recoverable balances and increases to the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. When regulatory action is taken on a reinsurer, we generally recognize a default factor by estimating an expected recovery on all balances outstanding, net of collateral. When sufficient information becomes available from managers of the reinsurer, we adjust the provision for uncollectible reinsurance by establishing a default factor pursuant to information received. For other recoverables management determines the provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on the specific facts and circumstances of that dispute. 45 The following table summarizes reinsurance recoverables and the provision for uncollectible reinsurance for each type of recoverable balance at December 31, 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) TotalReinsuranceRecoverables Recoverables(Net of UsableCollateral) Provision forUncollectibleReinsurance Type Reinsurers with credit ratings $ 12,333 $ 11,569 $ 248 Reinsurers not rated 1,045 909 225 Reinsurers under supervision and insolvent reinsurers 494 470 294 Other structured settlements, pools and Captives 2,378 1,546 20 Total $ 16,250 $ 14,494 $ 787 At December 31, 2005, the use of different assumptions within the model could have a material effect on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent the creditworthiness of our reinsurers were to deteriorate due to an adverse event affecting the reinsurance industry, such as a large number of major catastrophes, actual uncollectible amounts could be significantly greater than our provision for uncollectible reinsurance. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and our liquidity. Given the various considerations used to estimate our uncollectible provision, we cannot precisely quantify the effect a specific industry event may have on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. However, based on the composition (particularly the average credit quality) of the reinsurance recoverable balance at December 31, 2005, we estimate that a ratings downgrade of one notch for all rated reinsurers (e.g. from A to A or A to BBB+) could increase our provision for uncollectible reinsurance by approximately $200 million, assuming no other changes relevant to the calculation. While a rating downgrade would result in an increase in our provision for uncollectible reinsurance and a charge to earnings in that period, a downgrade in and of itself does not imply that we will not ultimately collect all of the ceded reinsurance recoverable from the reinsurers in question. Refer to Reinsurance for more information. Investments Our fixed maturity investments are classified as either available for sale or held to maturity. Our available for sale portfolio is reported at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in shareholders equity as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Fair value is determined using the quoted market price of these securities provided by either independent pricing services, or when such prices are not available, by reference to broker or underwriter bid indications. We regularly review our impaired investments (i.e., those debt securities in which fair value is below amortized cost or those equity securities in which fair value is below cost) for a possible other than temporary impairment. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record the decline as an unrealized loss in our shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the book value of the investment and record a realized loss in our consolidated statement of operations. An impairment is considered other than temporary unless we have the ability and intent to hold the investment to recovery of fair value up to the cost of the investment, and evidence indicating the cost of the investment is recoverable within a reasonable period outweighs evidence to the contrary. The determination as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary principally requires the following critical judgments: i) the circumstances that require management to make a specific assessment as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary, such as the time period an investment has been in a loss position and the significance of the decline; and ii) for those securities to be assessed, whether we have the ability and intent to hold the security through an expected recovery period, absent a significant change in facts that is expected to have a material adverse effect on either the financial markets or the financial position of the issuer. With respect to securities where the decline in value is determined to be temporary and the securitys value is not written down, a subsequent decision may be made to sell that security and realize a loss. Subsequent decisions on security sales could be made based on changes in liquidity needs (i.e., arising from a large insured loss such as a catastrophe), internal risk management considerations, the financial condition of the issuer or its industry, market conditions, and new investment opportunities. Day to day management of the majority of our investment portfolio is 46 outsourced to third party investment managers. While these investment managers may, at a given point in time, believe that the preferred course of action is to hold securities with unrealized losses until such losses are recovered, the dynamic nature of portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell the security and realize the loss based upon new circumstances such as those related to the changes described above. We believe that subsequent decisions to sell such securities are consistent with the classification of the majority of our portfolio as available for sale. The gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2005, for all securities in a loss position was $239 million. Because our investment portfolio is the largest component of consolidated assets and a multiple of shareholders equity, adverse changes in economic conditions subsequent to the balance sheet date could result in other than temporary impairments that are material to our financial condition and operating results. Such economic changes could arise from overall changes in the financial markets, specific changes to industries, companies, or foreign governments in which we maintain relatively large investment holdings. Further, an increase in interest rates could result in an increased number of fixed maturities for which we cannot support the intent to hold to recovery. More information regarding our process for reviewing our portfolio for possible impairments can be found in the section entitled Net Realized Gains (Losses). Deferred tax assets Many of our insurance businesses operate in income tax paying jurisdictions. We provide for income taxes in accordance with the provisions of FAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities primarily result from temporary differences between the amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities separately for each tax paying component (an individual entity or group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes) in each tax jurisdiction. At December 31, 2005, our net deferred tax asset was $1.3 billion. (See Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). At each balance sheet date, management assesses the need to establish a valuation allowance that reduces deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that all, or some portion, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance is based on all available information including projections of future taxable income from each tax paying component in each tax jurisdiction, principally derived from business plans and available tax planning strategies. Projections of future taxable income incorporate several assumptions of future business and operations that are apt to differ from actual experience. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates that resulted in our forecast of future taxable income for each tax paying component proves to be incorrect, an additional valuation allowance could become necessary. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. At December 31, 2005, the valuation allowance of $87 million (including $29 million with respect to foreign tax credits) reflects managements assessment that it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized due to the inability of certain foreign subsidiaries to generate sufficient taxable income or the inability to utilize foreign tax credits. Derivatives FAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (FAS 133) establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. FAS 133 requires that all derivatives be recognized as either assets or liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and be measured at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in our net income. Our principal participation in derivative instruments is as follows: i) To sell protection to customers as either the writer of a derivative financial instrument or an insurance or reinsurance contract that meets the definition of a derivative under FAS 133. For 2005 and 2004, the reinsurance of guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIBs) in our life reinsurance operation was our primary product falling into this category. We believe that the most meaningful presentation of these derivatives is to reflect cash inflows or revenue as net premiums earned, and to record estimates of future cash outflows as incurred losses. When we determine that a future cash payment is probable, we establish reserves for the loss. Other components of fair value are reflected in other assets or other liabilities in the balance sheet and related changes in fair value reflected in net realized gains (losses) in the income statement. We generally hold these derivative contracts to maturity. Where we hold a derivative to maturity, the cumulative unrealized gains and losses will net to zero if we incur no losses on that contract. Refer to Note 6(c) to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of this product and related accounting treatment; and 47 ii) To mitigate our own financial risks, principally arising from our investment holdings, products sold, or assets and liabilities held in foreign currencies. For these instruments, changes in assets or liabilities measured at fair value are recorded as net realized gains or losses in the consolidated income statement. Derivative instruments used for this purpose include interest rate futures, equity futures based on the Standard & Poors (S&P) Index, options, interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts primarily to manage duration and foreign currency exposure, enhance our portfolio yield or obtain an exposure to a particular financial market. In addition, as part of our investing activities, we purchase to be announced mortgage backed securities (TBAs), which are derivatives. Open derivatives as of the balance sheet date are reported at fair value based on market quotes or valuations provided to us by third party investment managers using market data. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, we did not designate any such derivatives as accounting hedges. The fair value of derivative instruments depends on a number of factors including changes in interest rates, changes in equity markets, changes in credit markets and for GMIB reinsurance, changes in the allocation of investments underlying annuitant account value. Where available, we use quoted market prices to determine the fair value of these instruments. If the quoted prices are not available, the fair value is estimated using valuation models for each type of instrument. Internal valuation models include the use of management estimates and current market information. These models may be developed by third parties or internally based on market conventions for similar transactions, depending on the circumstances. These models and related assumptions are continuously reevaluated by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon improvements in modeling techniques and availability of more timely market information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the assumptions used in the valuation models to determine the fair value of these derivative products, actual experience may differ from the estimates reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements, and the differences may be material. Refer to Item 7A for a more detailed discussion of the sensitivity of our GMIB products to market factors. Fair value adjustments attributed to all our derivative transactions are included in our net realized gains (losses). With respect to derivatives sold, we recorded a net realized gain of $29 million and a net realized loss of $13 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2005 and 2004, the net realized gains included $18 million and $10 million for GMIB reinsurance, respectively. In 2004, the change in fair value was related to many factors, including a loss of approximately $25 million related to the reversal of unrealized gains upon the termination of several credit default swaps and the sale of Assured Guaranty. In 2003, we held a few other, relatively illiquid, index based derivative instruments that were reported at fair value. In early 2004, these contracts were terminated at a gain in conjunction with the sale of Assured Guaranty. Refer to Net Realized Gains (Losses) for more information. Goodwill Goodwill, which represents the excess of the cost of our acquisitions over the tangible net assets we acquired, was $2.7 billion at December 31, 2005. The ACE INA acquisition comprises approximately 80 percent of this balance. FAS 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, primarily addresses accounting for goodwill and intangible assets subsequent to their acquisition. Pursuant to FAS 142, goodwill is not amortized to income but instead, is subject to a periodic evaluation of impairment. It is our policy to test goodwill as well as other intangible assets for other than temporary impairments on an annual basis. Goodwill is assigned to applicable reporting units of acquired entities based on goodwill recognized at acquisition. Impairment tests are performed annually for each acquired entity giving rise to goodwill. The most significant reporting units are the domestic and international divisions of ACE INA, which were acquired in 1999; ACE Tempest Res catastrophe businesses acquired in 1996 and 1998; and Tarquin Limited acquired in 1998. There are other reporting units that resulted from smaller acquisitions that are also assessed annually. The transitional impairment test of goodwill determined that there was no impairment in goodwill in 2002. In our impairment tests, we principally use both an earnings model, that includes relevant financial data of comparable companies to the reporting unit being tested, such as the relationship of price to book value for recent transactions and market valuations of publicly traded companies, and an estimation of fair value based on present value of estimated net cash flows. We must assess whether the current fair value of our operating units is at least equal to the fair value used in the determination of goodwill. In doing this, we make assumptions and estimates about the profitability attributable to our operating segments, as this is important in assessing whether an impairment has occurred. As part of our ongoing management assessments, we regularly analyze our operating companies in an effort to maximize future cash flows and profitability. During 2005, we completed the sale of a wholly owned service company which, at 48 the time of the sale, was carrying goodwill of $4 million on their financial statements. In addition, goodwill increased by $7 million due to the acquisition of the remaining 49 percent minority interest in a company which is now owned 100 percent by ACE. In 2004, we recorded a goodwill impairment of $13 million primarily as a result of a review conducted during the first quarter which led to a write down of goodwill relating to our Lloyds life syndicate. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates made in assessing the fair value of acquired entities prove to be incorrect, goodwill carried on our balance sheet could be materially overstated. This would cause us to write down the carrying value of goodwill, resulting in a charge to earnings in the period recorded. Accordingly, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period the charge is taken. In 2002, we purchased approximately 22 percent of a Chinese insurance company, Huatai Insurance Company (Huatai). We account for our ownership interest in Huatai under the equity method of accounting. At December 31, 2005, our carrying value for this investment is approximately $149 million, which includes goodwill of approximately $97 million. Based on Huatais current business plan and the current state of the Chinese insurance market, we have determined that our investment in Huatai, inclusive of goodwill, is not impaired at December 31, 2005. Risk transfer In the ordinary course of business, we both purchase, or cede, and sell, or assume, P&C reinsurance protection. For both ceded and assumed reinsurance, risk transfer requirements as per FAS No. 113, Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short Duration and Long Duration Contracts (FAS 113), must be met in order to obtain reinsurance accounting, principally resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract as premium and losses. If risk transfer requirements are not met, a contract is to be accounted for as a deposit, typically resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. We also apply similar risk transfer requirements to determine whether certain commercial insurance contracts should be accounted for as insurance or a deposit. Contracts that include fixed premium (i.e., premium not subject to adjustment based on loss experience under the contract) for fixed coverage generally transfer risk and do not require judgment. Reinsurance and insurance contracts that include both significant risk sharing provisions, such as adjustments to premiums or loss coverage based on loss experience, and relatively low policy limits as evidenced by a high proportion of maximum premium assessments to loss limits, can require considerable judgment to determine whether or not risk transfer requirements are met. For such contracts, often referred to as finite or structured products, we require that risk transfer be specifically assessed for each contract by developing expected cash flow analyses at contract inception. To support risk transfer, the cash flow analyses must support the fact that a significant loss is reasonably possible, such as a scenario in which the ratio of the net present value of losses divided by the net present value of premiums equals or exceeds 110 percent. For purposes of cash flow analyses, we generally use a risk free rate of return consistent with the expected average duration of loss payments. In addition, to support insurance risk, we must prove the reinsurers risk of loss varies with that of the reinsured and or support various scenarios under which the assuming entity can recognize a significant loss. To ensure risk transfer requirements are routinely assessed, quantitative risk transfer analyses and memoranda supporting risk transfer are developed by underwriters for all structured products. Furthermore, throughout 2004, such assessments were reviewed and approved by Corporate Accounting. Beginning in December 2004, we formed a Structured Transaction Review Committee that has the responsibility of both reviewing risk transfer assessments and other relevant accounting matters for our structured products. With respect to ceded reinsurance, we entered into a few multi year excess of loss retrospectively rated contracts, principally in 2002, which provided coverage during 2004 and 2003. These contracts principally provide severity protection for specific product divisions. Because traditional one year reinsurance coverage had become relatively costly, these contracts were generally entered into to secure a more cost effective reinsurance program. All of these contracts transferred risk and have been accounted for as reinsurance. In addition, we maintain a few aggregate excess of loss reinsurance contracts that were principally entered into prior to 2003, such as the National Indemnity Company (NICO) contracts referred to in the section entitled, Asbestos and Environmental Liabilities. In 2002, we commenced a policy to discontinue the purchase of all finite reinsurance contracts, at both the corporate and product division level. Subsequent to the ACE INA acquisition, we have not purchased any retroactive ceded reinsurance contracts. With respect to assumed reinsurance and insurance contracts, products giving rise to judgments regarding risk transfer are primarily sold by our financial solutions businesses, included in our Financial Services segment. Such 49 products principally include multi year retrospectively rated contracts and loss portfolio transfers. Because transfer of insurance risk is generally a primary client motivation for purchasing these products, relatively few P&C insurance and reinsurance contracts have historically been written for which we concluded that risk transfer criteria had not been met. For certain insurance contracts that have been reported as deposits, the insured desired to self insure a risk but was required, legally or otherwise, to purchase insurance so that claimants would be protected by a licensed insurance company in the event of non payment from the insured. A significant portion of ACE Tempest Re USAs business is written through quota share treaties (approximately $502 million of net premiums earned in 2005, comprised of $324 million of first dollar quota share treaties and $178 million of excess quota share treaties), some of which are categorized as structured products (approximately $98 million of net premiums earned in 2005). Structured quota share treaties typically contain relatively low aggregate policy limits, a feature that reduces loss coverage in some manner, and a profit sharing provision. Accounting standard setters for both GAAP and statutory reporting are currently contemplating risk transfer matters as well as accounting models that could ultimately require the bifurcation of structured quota share, and perhaps other quota share contracts not currently categorized as structured, into a reinsurance and financing component. New guidance in this area has the potential to have a significant impact on the amount of premiums and losses recognized under these contracts. Results of Operations Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 The discussions that follow include tables, which show both our consolidated and segment operating results for the three years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. In presenting our segment operating results, we have discussed our performance with reference to underwriting results, which is a non GAAP measure. We consider this measure, which may be defined differently by other companies, to be important in understanding our overall results of operations. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other (income) expense, interest expense, income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. Underwriting results should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Consolidated Operating Results (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Net premiums written $ 11,792 $ 11,496 $ 10,268 Net premiums earned 11,748 11,110 9,727 Net investment income 1,264 1,013 900 Net realized gains 76 197 265 Total revenues $ 13,088 $ 12,320 $ 10,892 Losses and loss expenses 8,571 7,690 6,167 Life and annuity benefits 143 175 182 Policy acquisition costs 1,670 1,565 1,350 Administrative expenses 1,261 1,265 1,189 Interest expense 174 183 177 Other (income) expense (32 ) 3 34 Total expenses $ 11,787 $ 10,881 $ 9,099 Income before income tax 1,301 1,439 1,793 Income tax expense 273 286 311 Net income $ 1,028 $ 1,153 $ 1,482 Net premiums written, which reflect the premiums we retain after purchasing reinsurance protection, increased three percent in 2005, compared with 2004. Our P&C business (which excludes our Life and Financial Services businesses) increased two percent. The increase was primarily driven by strong production in the U.S. casualty operations of the 50 Insurance North American segment, partially offset by a decline in net premiums written at ACE Global Markets. Net premiums written increased 12 percent in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to growth in P&C business due to broader market presence and growth in personal accident business. ACE conducts business internationally and in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the approximate effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of P&C net premiums written and earned for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. 2005 2004 Net premiums written: Growth in original currency 1% 18% Foreign exchange effect 1% 3% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 2% 21% Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency 6% 21% Foreign exchange effect 1% 2% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 7% 23% The following table provides a consolidated breakdown of net premiums earned by line of business for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 % of total 2004 % of total 2003 % of total Property and all other $ 3,250 28% $ 3,425 31% $ 3,030 31% Casualty 6,563 56% 5,806 52% 4,503 46% Personal accident (A&H) 1,242 10% 1,133 10% 920 10% Total P&C 11,055 94% 10,364 93% 8,453 87% Financial Services 445 4% 520 5% 1,087 11% Life Insurance and Reinsurance 248 2% 226 2% 187 2% Net premiums earned $ 11,748 100% $ 11,110 100% $ 9,727 100% Net premiums earned reflect the portion of net premiums written that were recorded as revenues for the period as the exposure period expires. Driven primarily by growth in production of U.S. casualty business over the last several years, net premiums earned in our P&C business increased seven percent in 2005, compared with 2004. Our Financial Services business reported a decrease in net premiums earned of 14 percent in 2005, compared with 2004, which included $104 million of net premiums earned from Assured Guaranty (prior to the IPO). The decrease in Financial Services net premiums earned was partially offset by premiums earned on multi year contracts in connection with catastrophe losses. Consistent with the trend in net premiums written, the overall increase in net premiums earned was 14 percent in 2004, compared with 2003. Net investment income increased 25 percent in 2005, compared with 2004, and 12 percent in 2004 compared with 2003. These increases in net investment income are primarily due to positive operating cash flows and proceeds from the public offering, which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. The sale of Assured Guaranty during 2004 had the effect of reducing the average invested asset base for Financial Services, which resulted in lower net investment income for that segment. In evaluating our P&C and Financial Services businesses we use the combined ratio, the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio. We calculate these ratios by dividing the respective expense amounts by net premiums earned. We do not calculate these ratios for the life business as we do not use these measures to monitor or manage that business. The combined ratio is determined by adding the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio. A combined ratio under 100 percent indicates underwriting income, and a combined ratio exceeding 100 percent indicates underwriting losses. 51 The following table shows our consolidated loss and loss expense ratio, policy acquisition ratio, administrative expense ratio and combined ratio for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. 2005 2004 2003 Loss and loss expense ratio 74.5% 70.7% 64.6% Policy acquisition cost ratio 14.3% 14.2% 14.0% Administrative expense ratio 10.8% 11.5% 12.4% Combined ratio 99.6% 96.4% 91.0% Our loss and loss expense ratio increased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to increased catastrophe losses and net adverse prior period development. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses, A&E reserve strengthening and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. 2005 2004 2003 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 74.5% 70.7% 64.6% Catastrophe losses 11.4% 4.7% 1.2% A&E reserve strengthening 4.3% Adverse prior period development 0.7% 0.8% 1.7% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 62.4% 60.9% 61.7% We recorded $1.4 billion in net catastrophe losses in 2005, compared with $499 million in 2004, and $112 million in 2003. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we recorded a net increase in A&E and other run off reserves of $465 million comprising A&E reserve increases of $554 million (including a provision for uncollectible reinsurance of $95 million) and favorable prior period development of $89 million in other run off reserves. Prior period development arises from changes to loss estimates recognized in the current year that relate to loss reserves first reported in previous calendar years and excludes the effect of losses from the development of earned premium from previous accident years. For purposes of analysis and disclosure, management views prior period development to be changes in the nominal value of loss estimates from period to period and excludes changes in loss estimates that do not arise from the emergence of claims, such as those related to uncollectible reinsurance, interest, or foreign currency. Accordingly, specific items excluded from prior period development include the following: gains/losses related to foreign currency translation that affect both the valuation of unpaid losses and loss expenses and losses incurred; losses recognized from the early termination or commutation of reinsurance agreements that principally relate to the time value of money; changes in the value of reinsurance business assumed reflected in losses incurred but principally related to the time value of money and losses that arise from changes in estimates of earned premiums from prior accident years. We experienced $86 million of net adverse prior period development in 2005, compared with $82 million (excluding A&E reserve strengthening) and $174 million in 2004, and 2003, respectively. The remaining increase in the loss and loss expense ratio for 2005 was primarily the result of changes in business mix in our Global Reinsurance and Insurance North American segments. Global Reinsurance has been growing its non catastrophe P&C lines while Insurance North American has been increasing its participation in casualty lines. Refer to Segment Operating Results for more information. Our policy acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes, underwriting and other costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of premium. Administrative expenses include all other operating costs. Our policy acquisition costs ratio has increased over the last three years primarily due to changes in business mix. Our administrative expense ratio has declined over the last three years, primarily due to the increase in net premiums earned. Additionally, for 2005, administrative expenses were reduced by the release of an accrual in Insurance North American and higher net profits from ACE USAs ESIS (claims services) operation, which we include in administrative expenses. Interest expense decreased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to the $75 million of Capital Re LLC preferred securities which were outstanding in 2004, and redeemed on July 12, 2004. Additionally, in 2004 we issued $500 million of 5.875 percent notes and repaid $400 million ACE INA 8.2 percent notes. 52 Our effective tax rate on net income, which we calculate as income tax expense divided by income before income tax, was 21 percent in 2005 compared with 20 percent in 2004 and 17 percent in 2003. The increase in the last two years, compared with 2003, was primarily a result of incurring a substantial portion of the catastrophe charges in lower tax jurisdictions, causing our income to decline without a commensurate decrease in income tax expense. The effective tax rate on 2005 catastrophe losses was 18 percent, compared with 14 percent in 2004. The effective tax rate for 2005 was approximately 5 percentage points lower due to the favorable impact of the American Jobs Creation Act, which resulted in an income tax benefit of $69 million. Refer to American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 for more information. In 2004, we incurred approximately $13 million in income tax expense related to U.S. federal income taxes from the transfer of our U.S. financial and mortgage guaranty operations to Assured Guaranty and attributed to the sale of our Assured Guaranty shares. The A&E reserve strengthening resulted in tax benefits of $163 million in 2004, which partially reduced our overall effective tax rate on net income. Our effective tax rate is dependent upon the mix of earnings from different jurisdictions with various tax rates; a change in the geographic mix of earnings would change the effective tax rate. Segment Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 Our business consists of five segments: Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, Global Reinsurance, Financial Services and Life Insurance and Reinsurance. For more information on each of our segments, including products and distribution, refer to the section entitled, Segment Information, under item 1. Insurance North American (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Net premiums written $ 5,450 $ 5,101 $ 4,050 Net premiums earned 5,285 4,679 3,689 Losses and loss expenses 4,118 3,898 2,541 Policy acquisition costs 492 447 380 Administrative expenses 409 451 402 Underwriting income (loss) $ 266 $ (117 ) $ 366 Net investment income 565 469 415 Net realized gains (losses) (6 ) 126 53 Interest expense 21 21 21 Other expense 14 5 14 Income tax expense 208 82 194 Net income $ 582 $ 370 $ 605 Loss and loss expense ratio 77.9% 83.3% 68.9% Policy acquisition cost ratio 9.3% 9.6% 10.3% Administrative expense ratio 7.7% 9.6% 10.9% Combined ratio 94.9% 102.5% 90.1% Net premiums written for the Insurance North American segment increased seven percent in 2005 compared with 2004. This increase was primarily driven by ACE USAs risk management, medical liability and workers compensation businesses and ACE Westchester Specialtys casualty lines. These gains were partially offset by lower net premiums written for property business, due in large part to higher reinstatement premiums in connection with catastrophe losses. ACE Bermuda experienced weak market conditions for professional lines business in 2005, compared with 2004. Insurance North Americans net premiums written increased 26 percent in 2004, compared with 2003. This increase was related to robust demand for casualty business combined with higher retention of gross premiums written in 2004, compared with 2003. 53 The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance North Americans net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 % of total 2004 % of total 2003 % of total Property and all other $ 1,249 24% $ 1,280 27% $ 1,102 29% Casualty 3,854 73% 3,225 69% 2,446 67% Personal accident (A&H) 182 3% 174 4% 141 4% Net premiums earned $ 5,285 100% $ 4,679 100% $ 3,689 100% (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 ACE USA $ 3,501 $ 3,011 $ 2,216 ACE Westchester Specialty 1,385 1,242 1,061 ACE Bermuda 399 426 412 Net premiums earned $ 5,285 $ 4,679 $ 3,689 ACE USAs net premiums earned increased 16 percent in 2005, compared with 2004. ACE Risk Management reported strong demand for its custom coverage solutions for large companies and construction projects while relatively new casualty units offering workers compensation and medical liability coverage also contributed to ACE USAs growth in 2005, compared with 2004. These gains were partially offset by higher reinstatement premiums in connection with catastrophe losses in 2005. ACE USAs net premiums written increased 36 percent in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to growth experienced in the casualty lines in 2003 and early 2004. ACE Westchester Specialtys net premiums earned increased 12 percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to growth in casualty business (particularly in 2004 and 2005), partially offset by higher reinstatement premiums in connection with catastrophe losses. ACE Westchester Specialty reported an increase in net premiums earned of 17 percent in 2004, compared with 2003. This increase primarily reflected higher casualty writings as well as increased agriculture coverage, reflecting growth in new business. ACE Bermudas net premiums earned decreased six percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to a decline in professional lines production. Strong competition in the professional lines market has led to rate reductions and in some cases under priced business, which ACE Bermuda has declined. Unfavorable market conditions for excess property business and reinstatement premiums also contributed to the decline in net premiums earned, partially offset by increased excess liability production in 2005, compared with 2004. ACE Bermuda reported a three percent increase in net premiums earned in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to growth in excess liability and professional lines. Insurance North Americans loss and loss expense ratio decreased in 2005, compared with 2004. This decrease was primarily due to an A&E reserve strengthening in 2004, partially offset by higher catastrophe losses in 2005. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses, A&E reserve strengthening and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. 2005 2004 2003 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 77.9% 83.3% 68.9% Catastrophe losses 7.1% 2.9% 0.5% A&E reserve strengthening 9.8% Adverse prior period development 2.4% 4.2% 2.5% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 68.4% 66.4% 65.9% Insurance North Americans net catastrophe losses for 2005 were $317 million compared with $126 million in 2004 and $20 million in 2003. The 2004 loss and loss expense ratio was negatively impacted by the A&E and other run off reserve strengthening, which resulted in a before tax charge of $459 million, including the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, for Insurance North American. The net additions comprised A&E reserve increases of $548 million 54 including the provision for uncollectible reinsurance of $95 million and favorable prior period development of $89 million in other run off reserves. We experienced $125 million of net adverse prior period development in 2005, representing 1.4 percent of the segments unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at January 1, 2005. This compares with 2004 net adverse prior period development of $195 million (excluding A&E), representing 2.9 percent of the segments unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at January 1, 2004. The 2005 prior period development was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, the most significant of which were: Adverse development of $171 million on certain sub portfolios of long tail business, written principally during accident years 1998 2002 in our U.S. operations. In particular; Run off program business including aggregate excess workers compensation exposure, general liability and automobile liability ($59 million in accident years 1999 2002); Excess general liability business written on a portfolio of large corporate accounts ($38 million across accident years 1998 2001); Professional liability business, mainly related to a run off nursing care program ($21 million for accident years 1999 2002); Pool participations covering workers compensation business assumed on both a voluntary and involuntary basis. ($35 million in accident years 2004 and prior). The development followed completion of reserve studies that reflected higher than anticipated actual loss experience compared with the expectation from the previous reserving basis. In the case of the excess general liability and professional liability business, the development arose following the completion of a detailed claims review that identified the need for significant case reserve changes on a number of accounts. Adverse development of $99 million in the ACE Bermuda professional lines book on accident years 2002 and prior following a claims and legal review of information received on several previously notified claims. Adverse development of $84 million mostly on the 2001 and 2002 accident years relating to changes in the legal and claim positions on a small number of financial guarantee contracts. Favorable development of $107 million on lines with short tail exposures (property, inland marine, and workers compensation catastrophe) resulting from our standard quarterly reserving process. Favorable development arose from the better than expected emergence of actual claims relative to expectations used to establish reserves. A majority of the favorable development arose from accident year 2004. Favorable development of $70 million in the ACE Bermuda excess liability book on accident years 2002 and prior due to a number of successful claim settlements during the year. Favorable development of $47 million on specialty business including agriculture, aviation, satellites and political risk due to lower than anticipated loss emergence during the year, mainly related to more recent accident years, primarily the 2004 accident year. The 2004 net adverse prior period development of $195 million was mainly driven by development on long tail lines for accident years 2002 and prior, most notably $163 million on U.S. run off workers compensation business and $98 million on the ACE Bermuda professional lines business. Partially offsetting this adverse development was $181 million of favorable prior period development on lines with short tail exposures principally related to accident year 2003. Net adverse development of $103 million was incurred in 2003, primarily from long tail lines. The remaining increase in the loss and loss expense ratio in the three years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, was principally the result of casualty lines comprising a higher proportion of net premiums earned. Due to their longer claim pay out duration, casualty lines exhibit a higher loss and loss expense ratio relative to other types of business. Insurance North Americans policy acquisition cost ratio decreased in 2005, compared with 2004, as higher acquisition costs on ACE Westchester Specialtys crop business was offset by lower direct and contingent commissions at ACE USA and lower commission costs on ACE Bermudas core lines of business. Administrative expenses decreased in 2005, compared with 2004. Although administrative expenses continue to increase as a result of higher costs to support business growth and recently established casualty units, in 2005 these costs were offset by the release of $42 million in accruals and an increase of $4 million in net revenues reported from ACE USAs ESIS operation. Administrative expenses increased in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to increased staffing costs (primarily underwriting and support unit personnel) and technology spending, related to servicing the growth in Insurance 55 North Americans product lines. The increase in net premiums earned over the last three years has had the effect of decreasing this segments administrative expense ratio. Insurance Overseas General (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Net premiums written $ 4,195 $ 4,335 $ 3,773 Net premiums earned 4,239 4,296 3,659 Losses and loss expenses 2,583 2,423 2,182 Policy acquisition costs 836 800 681 Administrative expenses 566 544 487 Underwriting income $ 254 $ 529 $ 309 Net investment income 319 224 166 Net realized gains (losses) 51 47 (6 ) Other expense 16 25 15 Income tax expense 107 232 99 Net income $ 501 $ 543 $ 355 Loss and loss expense ratio 60.9% 56.4% 59.6% Policy acquisition cost ratio 19.7% 18.6% 18.6% Administrative expense ratio 13.4% 12.7% 13.3% Combined ratio 94.0% 87.7% 91.5% Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written decreased three percent in 2005, compared with 2004. This decrease was primarily due to a decline in production combined with higher reinstatement premiums at ACE Global Markets, partially offset by gains on conversion of the U.S. dollar against the British pound sterling and the Euro (see table below for impact of foreign exchange on net premiums written and earned). ACE International reported stable net premiums written in 2005, compared with 2004. Net premiums written increased 15 percent in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar and growth in business across most of ACE Internationals operations. The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 % of total 2004 % of total 2003 % of total Property and all other $ 1,299 31% $ 1,442 34% $ 1,221 33% Casualty 1,880 44% 1,895 44% 1,659 46% Personal accident (A&H) 1,060 25% 959 22% 779 21% Net premiums earned $ 4,239 100% $ 4,296 100% $ 3,659 100% (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 ACE Europe $ 1,865 $ 1,934 $ 1,466 ACE Asia Pacific 545 485 387 ACE Far East 378 382 367 ACE Latin America 416 355 297 ACE International 3,204 3,156 2,517 ACE Global Markets 1,035 1,140 1,142 Net premiums earned $ 4,239 $ 4,296 $ 3,659 Insurance Overseas General reported a one percent decrease in net premiums earned in 2005, compared with 2004. Increases at ACE Asia Pacific and ACE Latin America were offset by weak market conditions at ACE Europe and ACE 56 Global Markets. Higher reinstatement premiums and reinsurance costs, also led to lower net premiums earned for 2005. Net premiums earned increased 17 percent in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily driven by strong growth at ACE Europe and also due to appreciation in the U.S. dollar. ACE Internationals net premiums earned increased two percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to the relative position of the U.S. dollar, as strong A&H growth was more than offset by lower P&C writings. ACE Europes 2005 decline in production was primarily driven by weak U.K. market conditions for P&C business, and to a lesser extent A&H. Competitive pricing in the U.K. resulted in lower rates, deterioration in terms and reduced levels of new business. ACE Asia Pacific and ACE Latin America reported solid growth in net premiums earned in 2005, driven by robust demand for A&H products. ACE Asia Pacific experienced success in using innovative distribution channels to meet customer demand. ACE Global Markets net premiums earned decreased nine percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to reinstatement premiums and a decline in production across most of ACE Global Markets portfolio of products, particularly property and professional lines. Insurance Overseas General conducts business internationally and in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the approximate effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of net premiums written and earned for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. 2005 2004 Net premiums written: Growth in original currency (6)% 8% Foreign exchange effect 3% 7% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars (3)% 15% Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency (3)% 13% Foreign exchange effect 2% 4% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars (1)% 17% Insurance Overseas Generals loss and loss expense ratio increased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to higher catastrophe losses. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses, and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. 2005 2004 2003 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 60.9% 56.4% 59.6% Catastrophe losses 5.2% 1.4% 0.3% Adverse (favorable) prior period development 0.1% (0.5)% 1.5% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 55.6% 55.5% 57.8% Net catastrophe losses for 2005 were $201 million, compared with $53 million and $10 million for 2004 and 2003, respectively. We experienced $5 million of net adverse development in 2005, representing 0.1 percent of the segments unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at January 1, 2005. This compares with 2004 net favorable prior period development of $17 million (includes $6 million adverse development relating to A&E), representing 0.4 percent of the segments unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at January 1, 2004. The 2005 prior period development was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, the most significant of which were: Favorable development of $94 million on short tail property and fire lines. These reserve changes were made as part of our regular quarterly reserving process and arose from better than expected emergence of actual claims relative to expectations. This movement mainly related to accident years 2003 and 2004. Adverse development of $41 million on ACEs share of a consortium reinsuring U.S. workers compensation business during the late 1990s. The adverse development arose following the completion of a financial and actuarial review of information received from the client. Adverse development of $62 million on professional lines business due to case reserve increases on a number of large claims. This adverse development was mainly related to accident years 2001 through 2003. 57 The 2004 net favorable prior period development was driven by favorable development on certain short tail lines of $103 million being offset by moderate adverse movements on a number of sub portfolios including aviation, casualty, political risk and A&H business. Net adverse prior period development of $55 million for 2003 was driven by $54 million of adverse prior period development on specialty lines, including marine and satellite and also $38 million on casualty lines related to the lengthening of development patterns. This adverse prior period development was partially offset by $47 million of favorable movements on short tail property and fire lines. Insurance Overseas Generals policy acquisition ratio increased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to changes in business mix (increase in A&H, which typically attracts higher commission rates than other business), increased commissions on certain P&C lines in ACE Europe and the impact of reinstatement premiums paid. This segments policy acquisition ratio was stable in 2004, compared with 2003. Insurance Overseas Generals administrative expense ratio increased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to the depreciation of the U.S. dollar, increased costs to support business opportunities and to a lesser extent the decline in net premiums earned. These increases were partially offset by improvements at ACE Global Markets due to a decline in Lloyds costs as a result of our reduced capacity through Syndicate 2488 and lower Lloyds levies. This segments administrative expense ratio improved in 2004, compared with 2003, due to increased net premiums earned coupled with the reduction in Lloyds costs. Global Reinsurance (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Net premiums written $ 1,546 $ 1,518 $ 1,229 Net premiums earned 1,531 1,389 1,105 Losses and loss expenses 1,402 973 560 Policy acquisition costs 307 271 211 Administrative expenses 60 65 62 Underwriting income (loss) $ (238 ) $ 80 $ 272 Net investment income 173 126 87 Net realized gains (losses) (4 ) 27 54 Interest expense 3 Other (income) expense 4 (1 ) (3 ) Income tax expense 11 14 14 Net income (loss) $ (87 ) $ 220 $ 402 Loss and loss expense ratio 91.6% 70.1% 50.6% Policy acquisition cost ratio 20.1% 19.5% 19.1% Administrative expense ratio 3.9% 4.6% 5.6% Combined ratio 115.6% 94.2% 75.3% Global Reinsurances net premiums written increased two percent in 2005, compared with 2004. Inward reinstatement premiums were mostly offset by weak market conditions for property and property catastrophe business (primarily in the first half of 2005), and lower casualty rates in Europe. This segments net premiums written increased 24 percent in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to higher non catastrophe P&C production at ACE Tempest Re USA and ACE Tempest Re Europe, partially offset by a decrease in property catastrophe business at ACE Tempest Re Bermuda. The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Global Reinsurances net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 % of total 2004 % of total 2003 % of total Property and all other $ 354 23% $ 374 27% $ 311 28% Casualty 829 54% 686 49% 399 36% Property catastrophe 348 23% 329 24% 395 36% Net premiums earned $ 1,531 100% $ 1,389 100% $ 1,105 100% 58 (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 ACE Tempest Re Europe $ 295 $ 303 $ 259 ACE Tempest Re USA 887 751 468 ACE Tempest Re Bermuda 349 335 378 Net premiums earned $ 1,531 $ 1,389 $ 1,105 Global Reinsurances net premiums earned increased 10 percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to higher inward reinstatement premiums and casualty earnings on business written in prior periods. Non catastrophe P&C business has represented a growing proportion of Global Reinsurances net premiums written over the last several years, and in general, has experienced more favorable market conditions over this time period compared with catastrophe lines. Net premiums earned increased 26 percent in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to the growing proportion of non catastrophe P&C business. ACE Tempest Re Europe reported a three percent decrease in net premiums earned in 2005, compared with 2004. Marine and energy reinstatement premiums were more than offset by unfavorable market conditions for casualty business. ACE Tempest Re Europe reported a 17 percent increase in net premiums earned in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily on the strength of casualty business written in 2003 and early 2004, offset by weakness in property catastrophe and aviation lines. ACE Tempest Re USAs net premiums earned increased 18 percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to casualty earnings on business written in prior periods, inward reinstatement premiums and new property policies written in 2005. ACE Tempest Re USA reported a 60 percent increase in net premiums earned in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to increased casualty business written and higher renewal rates. ACE Tempest Re Bermuda reported a four percent increase in net premiums earned in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to higher inward reinstatement premiums and improved market conditions for property catastrophe business in the second half of the year. ACE Tempest Re Bermuda reported an 11 percent decrease in net premiums earned in 2004, compared with 2003 as a market wide decline in rates on property catastrophe business, combined with our underwriting discipline resulted in downward pressure on premium production. The loss and loss expense ratio increased in 2005 compared with 2004, primarily due to increased catastrophe losses. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. 2005 2004 2003 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 91.6% 70.1% 50.6% Catastrophe losses 37.7% 22.2% 7.4% Favorable prior period development (1.4)% (4.4)% (2.5)% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 55.3% 52.3% 45.7% Global Reinsurance recorded $601 million in net catastrophe losses in 2005, primarily related to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. This segments net catastrophe losses for 2004 and 2003 were $309 million and $82 million, respectively. We experienced $22 million of net favorable prior period development in 2005, representing 1.4 percent of the segments unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at January 1, 2005. This compares with 2004 net favorable prior period development of $61 million, representing 6.6 percent of the segments unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at January 1, 2004. The 2005 favorable prior period development related primarily to property and other short tail lines and resulted from a difference between the actual and expected claims emergence used to establish reserves for the 2003 and 2004 accident years. Net favorable prior period development of $27 million was experienced in 2003. The favorable prior period development experienced in both 2004 and 2003 was primarily due to better than expected claims experience on property and other short tail lines. The remaining increase in the loss and loss expense ratio for 2005, compared with 2004, and for 2004 compared with 2003, was primarily related to the shift in mix of business that resulted from growth in non catastrophe P&C business at ACE Tempest Re USA and ACE Tempest Re Europe. Non catastrophe P&C business typically exhibits higher loss ratios than property catastrophe business (except in periods with high catastrophe losses). 59 Global Reinsurances policy acquisition cost ratio increased as a result of changes in business mix, partially offset by increased inward reinstatement premiums which do not incur acquisitions costs. This segments policy acquisition ratio increased in 2004, compared with 2003, due to changes in business mix. The administrative expense ratio decreased in 2005 and 2004, primarily due to increased net premiums earned. Financial Services The Financial Services segment consists of our financial solutions business and our proportionate share of Assured Guarantys earnings, which was 100 percent through April 28, 2004, and approximately 35 percent thereafter. Certain products (principally credit protection oriented) issued by the Financial Services segment have been determined to meet the definition of a derivative under FAS 133. Refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Derivatives for more information. From April 29, 2004, our proportionate share of Assured Guarantys earnings is reflected in Other (income) expense in our consolidated statement of operations. The equity in net income recorded from Assured Guaranty in 2005 and 2004, was $68 million and $45 million, respectively. Additionally, in 2005, we recorded our share of a loss recovery resulting from Assured Guarantys settlement of a long standing litigation matter. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Net premiums written $ 353 $ 316 $ 1,028 Net premiums earned 445 520 1,087 Losses and loss expenses 459 388 884 Policy acquisition costs 11 23 61 Administrative expenses 18 39 84 Underwriting income (loss) $ (43 ) $ 70 $ 58 Net investment income 133 147 201 Net realized gains (losses) 22 (17 ) 191 Interest expense 5 6 Other (income) expense (65 ) (25 ) (1 ) Income tax expense 16 35 64 Net income $ 161 $ 185 $ 381 Loss and loss expense ratio 103.0% 74.6% 81.3% Policy acquisition cost ratio 2.6% 4.3% 5.6% Administrative expense ratio 4.0% 7.5% 7.8% Combined ratio 109.6% 86.4% 94.7% Financial Services reported a 12 percent increase in net premiums written in 2005, compared with 2004. The increase related primarily to premiums on retrospectively rated multi year contracts in connection with catastrophe losses. Net premiums written and earned were increased by $148 million in connection with multi year contracts consistent with the accounting guidance under EITF 93 6. EITF 93 6 requires that companies writing multi year contracts recognize an asset to the extent that the ceding company has an obligation to pay cash to the reinsurer that would not have been required absent experience under the contract. To the extent premiums are owed irrespective of future coverage under the contract, the related premium is earned. Net premiums earned decreased 14 percent in 2005, compared with 2004, which included $104 million of net premiums earned from Assured Guaranty, prior to the IPO. Excluding the premiums written on multi year contracts, Financial Services reported a decline in production in 2005, compared with 2004, which reflects the decrease in underwriting opportunities in some lines of business. Premium volume in the financial solutions business can vary significantly from period to period and therefore premiums written in any one period are not indicative of premiums to be written in future periods. This segment reported a decrease in net premiums written and earned of 69 percent and 52 percent, respectively, in 2004, compared with 2003. The decline was primarily a result of the sale of Assured Guaranty and decline in loss portfolio transfers production. Financial Services reported an underwriting loss in 2005, primarily due to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, which contributed $92 million to this segments underwriting loss. Partially offsetting the underwriting loss was a loss recovery in connection with the long standing litigation matter (in addition to our share of Assured Guarantys 60 recovery, discussed above), which added $16 million to this segments underwriting income in 2005. In connection with products accounted for using the deposit method of accounting, we recorded $9 million and $10 million of non refundable fees in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Financial Services segment reported an increase in underwriting income of 21 percent in 2004, compared with 2003. The increase was mainly driven by a lower loss and loss expense ratio in our financial guaranty operations prior to the IPO of Assured Guaranty. We experienced $22 million of net favorable prior period development in 2005, representing 1.0 percent of the segments unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at January 1, 2005. This compares with 2004 net favorable prior period development of $29 million, representing 1.0 percent of the segments unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at January 1, 2004. The 2005 favorable prior period development principally relates to $29 million of favorable development related to a financial guarantee reinsurance contract that provides default coverage for a diversified portfolio of securities. During 2005, the portfolio subject to coverage was substantially reduced and actual losses, representing the shortfall between cash paid to settle securities and stated principal and interest amounts, were lower than corresponding loss reserves held for those securities. This favorable development was slightly reduced by moderate reserve increases on a few contracts that aggregate to $7 million. The favorable prior period development in 2004 was primarily due to lower than expected loss emergence on multi year excess of loss contracts. The adverse prior period development in 2003 of $43 million arose principally on the structured finance lines of business due to credit deterioration in assumed collateralized debt obligations. Life Insurance and Reinsurance We assess the performance of our life insurance and reinsurance business based on life underwriting income which includes net investment income. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Net premiums written $ 248 $ 226 $ 188 Net premiums earned 248 226 187 Life and annuity benefits 143 175 182 Policy acquisition costs 24 24 17 Administrative expenses 19 11 6 Net investment income 36 33 33 Life underwriting income 98 49 15 Net realized gains (losses) 19 7 (21 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (2 ) (2 ) (1 ) Net income (loss) $ 119 $ 58 $ (5 ) Life underwriting income increased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to the decrease in life and annuity benefits. In 2005, life and annuity benefits declined primarily due to the decrease in group long term disability business (discontinued in 2002), which typically incurs higher benefit ratios than other types of business and also experienced a reserve strengthening in 2004. Additionally, favorable underlying account experience reduced the expected value of future benefit payments under variable annuity contracts. Net premiums earned benefited from continued growth in variable annuity business, offset by the continued decrease in production of long term disability business. Net realized gains increased in 2005, compared with 2004, and consisted primarily of fair value adjustments on guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIBs), which occur due to changes in the level and volatility of interest rates and equity markets. The fair value gain of $18 million on GMIBs in 2005, includes changes in some assumptions used to calculate the fair value of the GMIB liability primarily related to expectations of future policyholder lapse and mortality rates in various economic scenarios. The impact of the changes in assumptions was a $108 million decrease in the fair value of the GMIB liability recorded during the second quarter of 2005. These changes in assumptions were prompted by emerging experience and are in line with industry standards; such changes may occur periodically. On September 30, 2005, we entered into a derivative transaction, which has the effect of reducing our net exposure to equity and interest rate market movements. The derivative has an expiration date of September 30, 2015 and an associated premium payment of $31 million. Refer to Item 7A for more information. 61 Life underwriting income improved in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to the increase in net premiums earned, combined with lower life and annuity benefits. Net premiums earned increased in 2004 primarily due to higher variable annuity production, while life and annuity benefits declined due to the increased proportion of premium volume from variable annuity products, which typically have lower expected benefit pay outs than other business. Net Investment Income Years Ended December 31 (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Insurance North American $ 565 $ 469 $ 415 Insurance Overseas General 319 224 166 Global Reinsurance 173 126 87 Financial Services 133 147 201 Life Insurance and Reinsurance 36 33 33 Corporate and Other 38 14 (2 ) Net investment income $ 1,264 $ 1,013 $ 900 Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors, including the amounts and timing of inward and outward cash flows, the level of interest rates and changes in overall asset allocation. Net investment income increased 25 percent in 2005, compared with 2004, and 13 percent in 2004, compared with 2003. The increase in net investment income is primarily due to several years of positive operating cash flows which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. Additionally, for the current year our invested asset base was increased by the proceeds from our public offering in October 2005. Partially offsetting the growth trend in net investment income was the sale of Assured Guaranty in 2004, which reduced the average invested asset base for Financial Services and resulted in a decline in net investment income for that segment over the last two years. The investment portfolios average market yield on fixed maturities was 5.0 percent at December 31, 2005, compared with 4.1 percent and 4.0 percent at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The following table shows the return on average invested assets for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Average invested assets $ 29,118 $ 24,129 $ 19,372 Net investment income 1,264 1,013 900 Return on average invested assets 4.3% 4.2% 4.7% Net Realized Gains (Losses) Our investment strategy takes a long term view, and our investment portfolio is actively managed to maximize total return within certain specific guidelines, designed to minimize risk. The majority of our investment portfolio is available for sale and reported at fair value. During the first quarter of 2005, we transferred securities that we have the ability and intent to hold to maturity or redemption from the available for sale classification to the held to maturity classification. The transfer was made at the fair value at the date of transfer (refer to Investments for more information). Our held to maturity investment portfolio is reported at amortized cost. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when other than temporary impairments are recorded on invested assets. Additionally, net income is impacted through the reporting of changes in the fair value of derivatives, including financial futures, options, swaps, GMIB reinsurance, and credit default swaps. Changes in unrealized appreciation and depreciation on available for sale securities, which result from the revaluation of securities held, are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. 62 The following table presents our pre tax net realized gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Fixed maturities and short term investments $ (45 ) $ 113 $ 100 Equity securities 76 84 (41 ) Other investments 4 (21 ) (25 ) Currency 1 21 Derivatives: Financial futures, options, swaps 12 33 34 Fair value adjustment on insurance derivatives 29 (13 ) 176 Subtotal derivatives 41 20 210 Total net realized gains (losses) $ 76 $ 197 $ 265 Subject to investment guidelines approved by our Finance and Investment Committee of the Board of Directors (relating to asset classes, credit quality, and liquidity), our investment managers generally have the ability to sell securities from our available for sale investment portfolio when they determine that an alternative security with comparable risks is likely to provide a higher investment return, considering the realized gain or loss on sale and differential in future investment income. Often, sales of individual securities occur when investment managers conclude there are changes in the credit quality of a particular security or, for other reasons, market value is apt to deteriorate. Further, we may sell securities when we conclude it is prudent to reduce a concentration in a particular issuer or industry. Therefore, sales volume may increase in a volatile credit market in which credit spreads and thus the market value of fixed maturity investments are subject to significant changes in a short period of time. The interest rate environment will tend to have a limited effect on sales volume but extreme conditions could have an effect on the magnitude of realized gains or losses. For example, in a declining rate environment, the market value of securities increase, resulting in a greater likelihood of net realized gains and we would therefore tend to reduce the average duration of our fixed maturity investment portfolio. An increasing rate environment would tend to have the opposite effect. The effect of a high level of realized losses or gains for a particular period will tend to be offset by increases or decreases in investment income, respectively, in subsequent periods. From a liquidity perspective, our greatest risk is that we could be forced to sell a large volume of securities at a loss (i.e., in a high interest rate environment) to meet operating needs and are thus unable to reinvest proceeds to recoup such losses with future investment income (refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information). FAS 133 requires us to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet and measure them at fair value. We record the gains and losses resulting from the fair value measurement of derivatives in net realized gains (losses). We participate in derivative instruments in two principal ways as follows: i) to offer protection to others as the seller or writer of the derivative, such as our GMIB reinsurance contracts that are treated as derivatives for accounting purposes; and ii) to mitigate our own risk, principally arising from investment holdings. We do not consider either type of transaction to be speculative. In 2005, we recorded net realized gains of $41 million on derivative transactions. This compares with net realized gains of $20 million and $210 million, in 2004 and 2003, respectively. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates and equity indices on the fair value of derivatives and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. With respect to our GMIB reinsurance and credit derivatives, we record a portion of the change in fair value in future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts and unpaid loss and loss expenses, respectively, representing our best estimate of loss pay outs related to fees or premiums earned, and a portion in net realized gains (losses), representing other changes in fair value. The fair value adjustments related to GMIB reinsurance and credit derivatives included in net realized gains (losses) in 2005 was net realized gains of $29 million. The fair value adjustments related to GMIB reinsurance and credit derivatives included in net realized gains (losses) in 2004 and 2003 were net realized losses of $13 million and net realized gains of $176 million, respectively. The change in fair values related to GMIB reinsurance was realized gains of $18 million in 2005, compared with $10 million in 2004. The gain or loss created by the estimated fair value adjustment will rise or fall each period based on estimated market pricing and may not be an indication of ultimate claims. Fair value is defined as the amount at which an asset or liability could be bought or sold 63 in a current transaction between willing parties. We generally plan to hold derivative financial instruments to maturity. Where we hold derivative financial instruments to maturity, these fair value adjustments would generally be expected to reverse resulting in no gain or loss over the entire term of the contract. However, in the event that we terminate a derivative contract prior to maturity, as a result of a decision to exit a line of business or for risk management purposes, the difference between the final settlement of cash inflows and outflows and financial statement accruals for premiums and losses will be reflected as premiums earned and losses incurred, respectively. Additionally, at termination, any unrealized gain or loss, previously classified as a realized gain or loss, will be reversed and classified as a realized loss or gain, respectively. The changes in the fair value of GMIBs are determined using internal valuation models. Such valuations require considerable judgment and are subject to significant uncertainty. The valuation of these products is subject to fluctuations arising from, among other factors, changes in interest rates, changes in the equity markets, and changes in the allocation of the investments underlying annuitants account value. These models and the related assumptions are continually reviewed by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon improvements in modeling techniques and availability of more timely information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. Refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Derivatives for more information. The net realized gain of $12 million on financial futures, options, and swaps in 2005, was primarily driven by gains on derivative transactions structured to manage our investment portfolios credit and interest rate risks. In 2004 and 2003, we experienced net realized gains of $33 million and $34 million, respectively, related to financial futures, options, spread lock swaps and interest rate swaps. We use foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the effect of fluctuating foreign currencies on certain non U.S. dollar holdings in our portfolio that are not specifically matching foreign currency liabilities. These contracts are not designated as specific hedges and we record all realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts as net realized gains (losses) in the period in which the currency values change. We regularly review our investment portfolio for possible impairment based on criteria including economic conditions, credit loss experience and issuer specific developments. If there is a decline in a securitys net realizable value, we must determine whether that decline is temporary or other than temporary. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record it as an unrealized loss in our shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the book value of the investment and record a net realized loss in our statement of operations. The decision to recognize a decline in the value of a security carried at fair value as other than temporary rather than temporary has no impact on our book value. Once a security is identified as having a potential other than temporary impairment, we determine whether or not cost will ultimately be recovered and whether we have the intent and ability to hold the security until an expected recovery period, absent a significant change in facts that is expected to have a material adverse financial effect on the issuer. The process of determining whether a decline in value is temporary or other than temporary requires considerable judgment and differs depending on whether or not the security is traded on a public market as well as by type of security. We review all of our fixed maturities and equity securities for potential impairment each quarter. See Note 3 g) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for criteria we consider in assessing potential impairment. Note 3 g) also includes a table which summarizes all of our securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2005. Our net realized gains in 2005, included write downs of $88 million, as a result of conditions which caused us to conclude that the decline in fair value was other than temporary. This compares with write downs of $39 million and $121 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. A breakdown of write downs by security type is included in Note 3 h) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Income and Expense Items Years Ended December 31 (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Equity in net income of partially owned companies $ (60 ) $ (41 ) $ (6 ) Minority interest expense 16 22 18 Other 12 9 16 Goodwill impairment 13 6 Other (income) expense $ (32 ) $ 3 $ 34 64 Other income in 2005, primarily comprises our equity in net income of Assured Guaranty (included in equity in net income of partially owned companies), and minority interest expense due to profitability associated with our consolidated joint ventures. Other expense in 2004 included $8 million in compensation expense in connection with the settlement of ACE stock awards held by employees of Assured Guaranty. Additionally, in 2004, we recognized $13 million of goodwill impairments, following a review of our goodwill balance during the first quarter of 2004. In 2005, we did not recognize goodwill impairment but we reported a net increase in our goodwill balance of $3 million, primarily due to our purchase of the remaining interest of a previously partially owned subsidiary. The other expense for 2003 related to charges for commutation of a reinsurance contract. Investments Our principal investment objective is to ensure that funds are available to meet our insurance and reinsurance obligations. Within this broad liquidity constraint, the purpose of our investment portfolios structure is to maximize total return subject to specifically approved guidelines of overall asset classes, credit quality, liquidity and volatility of expected returns. Our investment portfolio is invested primarily in fixed income securities with an average credit quality of AA, as rated by the independent investment rating service S&P. The portfolio is externally managed by independent, professional investment managers. The average duration of our fixed income securities, including the effect of options and swaps, declined to 2.9 years at December 31, 2005, compared with 3.4 years at December 31, 2004. We estimate that a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would reduce our book value by approximately $824 million. Our other investments principally comprise direct investments, investment funds and limited partnerships. Given the significant growth in our investment portfolio over the last several years, as well as our continued efforts to manage the diversification of the portfolio on an enterprise wide basis, we have implemented a strategy to hold to maturity certain fixed maturity securities that are considered essential holdings in a diversified portfolio of our size. Because we have the intent to hold such securities to maturity, they have been reclassified from available for sale to held to maturity in our consolidated balance sheet. A transfer of such securities with a carrying value (fair value) of $3.2 billion was made during the quarter ended March 31, 2005. The unrealized appreciation (depreciation) at the date of the transfer continues to be reported in a separate component of stockholders equity and is being amortized over the remaining life of the security as an adjustment of yield in a manner consistent with the amortization of any premium or discount. The unrealized appreciation on the date of transfer was $16 million (this balance was $10 million at December 31, 2005). Our debt securities include fixed maturity securities, which are classified as either held to maturity or available for sale. Securities classified as held to maturity are securities that we have the ability and intent to hold to maturity or redemption and are carried at amortized cost. All other debt securities and our equity securities are classified as available for sale and are carried at fair value. The net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on securities available for sale, plus the unamortized unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on debt securities transferred to the held to maturity portfolio, less related deferred income taxes, are included in accumulated other comprehensive income. The following table shows the fair value and cost/amortized cost of our invested assets at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Fair Value Cost/Amortized Cost Fair Value Cost/Amortized Cost Fixed maturities available for sale $ 24,285 $ 24,273 $ 22,891 $ 22,422 Fixed maturities held to maturity 3,055 3,076 Short term investments 2,299 2,299 2,163 2,163 29,639 29,648 25,054 24,585 Equity securities 1,507 1,280 1,265 1,061 Other investments 755 672 606 544 Total investments $ 31,901 $ 31,600 $ 26,925 $ 26,190 We also gain exposure to equity markets through the use of derivative instruments. Our exposure through equity derivatives was nil and $131 million at December 31, 2005, and 2004, respectively. The fair value of our total investments increased $5 billion during the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily due to investment of positive cash 65 flows from operations and the proceeds from our public offering, partially offset by unrealized depreciation of $386 million, mainly on fixed maturities, due to an overall increase in U.S. interest rates during the period. The following tables show the market value of our fixed maturities and short term investments at December 31, 2005 and 2004. The first table lists investments according to type and the second according to S&P credit rating. December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Market Value Percentage ofTotal Market Value Percentage ofTotal Treasury $ 1,956 6% $ 1,551 7% Agency 1,506 5% 1,547 7% Corporate 7,646 26% 7,614 30% Mortgage backed securities 8,363 28% 5,034 20% Asset backed securities 1,981 7% 1,225 5% Municipal 504 2% 566 2% Non US 5,384 18% 5,376 21% Cash and cash equivalents 2,299 8% 2,141 8% Total $ 29,639 100% $ 25,054 100% December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Market Value Percentage ofTotal Market Value Percentage ofTotal AAA $ 18,985 64% $ 13,890 55% AA 2,108 7% 2,634 11% A 4,350 15% 4,397 18% BBB 2,083 7% 2,275 9% BB 945 3% 774 3% B 1,106 4% 1,041 4% Other 62 43 Total $ 29,639 100% $ 25,054 100% In accordance with our investment process, we invest in below investment grade securities through dedicated investment portfolios managed by external investments managers that have investment professionals specifically dedicated to this asset class. At December 31, 2005, our fixed income investment portfolio included below investment grade and non rated securities which, in total, comprised approximately seven percent of our fixed income portfolio. We define a security as being below investment grade if it has an S&P credit rating of BB or less. Our below investment grade and non rated portfolio includes approximately 800 issues, with the top 15 holdings making up approximately 11 percent of the $2.2 billion balance at December 31, 2005. The highest single exposure in this portfolio of securities is $23 million. Below investment grade securities have different characteristics than investment grade corporate debt securities. Risk of loss from default by the borrower is greater with below investment grade securities. Below investment grade securities are generally unsecured and are often subordinated to other creditors of the issuer. Also, issuers of below investment grade securities usually have higher levels of debt and are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions such as recession or increasing interest rates, than are investment grade issuers. We reduce the overall risk in the below investment grade portfolio, as in all investments, through careful credit analysis, strict investment policy guidelines, and diversification by issuer and or guarantor as well as by industry. Restricted Assets We are required to maintain assets on deposit with various regulatory authorities to support our insurance and reinsurance operations. These requirements are generally promulgated in the statutory regulations of the individual jurisdictions. The assets on deposit are available to settle insurance and reinsurance liabilities. We also utilize trust funds in certain large transactions where the trust funds are set up for the benefit of the ceding companies and generally take the place of Letter of Credit (LOC) requirements. We also have investments in segregated portfolios primarily 66 to provide collateral or guarantees for LOCs and debt instruments. (See Notes 7 and 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements) The following table identifies the value of restricted assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 Deposits with U.S. regulatory authorities $ 921 $ 857 Deposits with non U.S. regulatory authorities 2,065 1,866 Assets used for collateral or guarantees 910 894 Trust funds 2,255 1,950 $ 6,151 $ 5,567 Deposits with non U.S. regulatory authorities increased eleven percent in 2005, compared with 2004, due to higher asset balances in support of our Lloyds Syndicate 2488. All syndicate assets are restricted under Lloyds Trust Deeds. Additionally, with respect to one reinsurance contract, premiums had been deposited in a trust, invested in fixed maturities, for which an ACE affiliate in Bermuda provided an interest rate guarantee. Based on these guarantees, ACE concluded that it had the majority of the risks and rewards of ownership for the trust. ACE has consolidated these trust assets of approximately $171 million effective January 1, 2004, the date we adopted FIN 46 (R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. At December 31, 2005, the amount consolidated in connection with these trust assets was $163 million. Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses We establish reserves for the estimated unpaid ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses under the terms of our policies and agreements. These reserves take into account estimates both for claims that have been reported and for IBNR, and include estimates of expenses associated with processing and settling claims. The table below presents a roll forward of our unpaid losses and loss expenses for the year ended December 31, 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Losses ReinsuranceRecoverable Net Losses Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 31,483 $ 13,966 $ 17,517 Losses and loss expenses incurred 13,319 4,748 8,571 Losses and loss expenses paid (8,745 ) (3,376 ) (5,369 ) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) (1,002 ) (741 ) (261 ) Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 35,055 $ 14,597 $ 20,458 The process of establishing reserves for claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments. Our estimates and judgments may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed; as new or improved methodologies are developed; or as current laws change. Catastrophe losses significantly impacted our total reserves 2005 included gross and net catastrophe losses of $3.0 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. The following table shows our total reserves segregated between case reserves and IBNR reserves. December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Case reserves $ 15,422 $ 5,889 $ 9,533 $ 14,797 $ 6,003 $ 8,794 IBNR 19,633 8,708 10,925 16,686 7,963 8,723 Total $ 35,055 $ 14,597 $ 20,458 $ 31,483 $ 13,966 $ 17,517 67 The following table segregates the reserves by components including casualty, property, personal accident and other at December 31, 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Casualty Case reserves $ 2,961 $ 952 $ 2,009 Expenses 157 23 134 IBNR 3,120 1,701 1,419 Subtotal 6,238 2,676 3,562 Property Case reserves 9,581 3,697 5,884 Expenses 2,368 1,152 1,216 IBNR 16,054 6,814 9,240 Subtotal 28,003 11,663 16,340 Personal accident Case reserves 335 65 270 Expenses 20 20 IBNR 459 193 266 Subtotal 814 258 556 Total Case reserves 12,877 4,714 8,163 Expenses 2,545 1,175 1,370 IBNR 19,633 8,708 10,925 Total $ 35,055 $ 14,597 $ 20,458 Assumed Reinsurance At December 31, 2005, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.4 billion, consisting of $790 million of case reserves and $1.6 billion of IBNR. For 2005, increases in Global Reinsurances net unpaid losses and loss expenses were partially offset by claim payments made in connection with third quarter 2004 storms. Prior to 2000, our reinsurance operations had been concentrated in the property catastrophe reinsurance market. For catastrophe business, we principally estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses on an event basis by considering various sources of information including specific loss estimates reported by our cedants, ceding company and overall industry loss estimates reported by our brokers, and our internal data regarding reinsured exposures related to the geographical location of the event. The latter internal analysis enables us to establish catastrophe reserves for known events with more certainty at an earlier date than would be the case if we solely relied on reports from third parties to determine carried reserves. In 2000, we began writing casualty lines of reinsurance in the United States, and to a lesser extent, Europe, Asia, and Australia. Given the long tail nature of this business, these new lines have both increased the amount of reserves in the Global Reinsurance segment as well as the uncertainty in the loss estimation process. For our casualty reinsurance business, we generally rely on ceding companies to report claims and then use that data as a key input to estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses. Due to the reliance on claims information reported by ceding companies, as well as other factors, the estimation of unpaid losses and loss expenses for assumed reinsurance includes certain risks and uncertainties that are unique relative to our direct insurance business. These include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: The reported claims information could be inaccurate. Typically, a lag exists between the reporting of a loss event to a ceding company and its reporting to us as a reinsurance claim. The use of a broker to transmit financial information from a ceding company to us increases the reporting lag. Because most of our reinsurance business is produced by brokers, ceding companies generally first submit claim and other financial information to brokers, who then report the proportionate share of such information 68 to each reinsurer of a particular treaty. The reporting lag generally results in a longer period of time between the date a claim is incurred and the date a claim is reported compared with direct insurance operations. Therefore, the risk of delayed recognition of loss reserve development is higher for assumed reinsurance than for direct insurance lines. The historical claims data for a particular reinsurance agreement can be limited relative to our insurance business in that there may be less historical information available. Additionally, for many coverages, such as excess of loss contracts, there may be relatively few expected claims in a particular year so the actual number of claims may be susceptible to significant variability. In such cases, the actuary often relies on industry data from several recognized sources. We mitigate the above risks in several ways. In addition to routine analytical reviews of ceding company reports to ensure reported claims information appears reasonable, we perform regular underwriting and claims audits of certain ceding companies to ensure reported claims information is accurate, complete, and timely. As appropriate, audit findings are used to adjust claims in the reserving process. We also use our knowledge of the historical development of losses from individual ceding companies to adjust the level of adequacy we believe exists in the reported ceded losses. On occasion, there will be differences between our carried loss reserves and unearned premium reserves and the amount of loss reserves and unearned premium reserves reported by the ceding companies. This is due to the fact that we only receive consistent and timely information from ceding companies with respect to case reserves. For IBNR, we use historical experience and other statistical information, depending on the type of business, to estimate the ultimate loss (see Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses for more information). We estimate our unearned premium reserve by applying estimated earning patterns to net premiums written for each treaty based upon that treatys coverage basis (i.e. risks attaching or losses occurring). At December 31, 2005, the case reserves reported to us by our ceding companies were $767 million, compared with the $790 million we recorded. We do, on occasion, post additional case reserves in addition to the amounts reported by our cedants when our evaluation of the ultimate value of a reported claim is different than the evaluation of that claim by our cedant. Within the Insurance North American segment, we also have exposure to certain liability reinsurance lines that have been in run off since 1994. Unpaid losses and loss expenses relating to this run off reinsurance business resides within the Brandywine Division of our Insurance North American segment. Most of the remaining unpaid losses and loss expense reserves for the run off reinsurance business relate to asbestos and environmental claims. (Refer to Asbestos and Environmental Liabilities for more information) Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E. These A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to changes in the legal, social and economic environment. We have not assumed any such changes in setting the value of our A&E reserves, which include provision for both reported and IBNR claims. Our exposure to A&E claims principally arises out of liabilities acquired when we purchased Westchester Specialty in 1998 and the P&C business of CIGNA in 1999, with the larger exposure contained within the liabilities acquired in the CIGNA transaction. In 1996, prior to our acquisition of the P&C business of CIGNA, the Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner approved a plan to restructure INA Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Restructuring) which included the division of Insurance Company of North America (INA) into two separate corporations: (1) an active insurance company that retained the INA name and continued to write P&C business and (2) an inactive run off company, now called Century Indemnity Company (Century). As a result of the division, predominantly all A&E and certain other liabilities of INA were allocated to Century and extinguished, as a matter of Pennsylvania law, as liabilities of INA. As part of the Restructuring, the A&E liabilities of various U.S. affiliates of INA were reinsured to Century, and Century and certain other run off companies having A&E and other liabilities were contributed to Brandywine Holdings Corporation (Brandywine Holdings). As part of the 1999 acquisition of the P&C business of CIGNA, we acquired Brandywine Holdings and its various subsidiaries. See the Brandywine Run Off Entities section below for additional information. 69 The table below presents a roll forward of our consolidated loss and allocated loss expense reserves for A&E exposures, excluding the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, for the year ended December 31, 2005. Asbestos Environmental Total (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 3,872 $ 1,809 $ 735 $ 585 $ 4,607 $ 2,394 Losses and allocated expenses incurred 12 2 2 1 14 3 Losses and allocated loss expenses paid (219 ) (53 ) (113 ) (68 ) (332 ) (121 ) Foreign currency revaluation (24 ) (7 ) (24 ) (7 ) Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 3,641 $ 1,751 $ 624 $ 518 $ 4,265 $ 2,269 Net figures in the above table reflect third party reinsurance other than reinsurance provided by National Indemnity Company under three aggregate excess of loss contracts described below (collectively, the NICO contracts). With certain exceptions, the NICO contracts provide coverage primarily for our net A&E incurred losses and allocated loss expenses within the limits of coverage and above the retention levels of the NICO contracts. These exceptions include losses arising from the operations of ACE Overseas General and participations by ACE Bermuda as a co reinsurer or retrocessionaire in the NICO contracts. Brandywine Run off Impact of NICO Contracts The A&E net loss and allocated loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005 of $2.3 billion shown in the above table are comprised of $1.8 billion in reserves held by Brandywine run off companies, $211 million of reserves held by Westchester Specialty, and $242 million of reserves held by other ACE companies. The following table presents a more detailed roll forward of net loss and allocated loss adjustment expense reserves in respect of Brandywine operations only, including the impact of the Brandywine NICO Agreement, (as defined below). Brandywine NICO Net of NICO (in millions of U.S. dollars) A&E Other* Total Coverage Coverage Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 1,916 $ 1,361 $ 3,277 $ 2,073 $ 1,204 Losses and allocated expenses incurred 5 (33 ) (28 ) (28 ) Losses and allocated loss expenses paid (105 ) (125 ) (230 ) (211 ) (19 ) Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 1,816 $ 1,203 $ 3,019 $ 1,862 $ 1,157 * Other consists primarily of workers compensation, non A&E general liability losses and bad debt reserves on all subject business. 70 Westchester Specialty Impact of NICO Contracts As part of the acquisition of Westchester Specialty in 1998, NICO provided a 75 percent pro rata share of $1 billion of reinsurance protection on losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred on or before December 31, 1996 in excess of a retention of $721 million (the 1998 NICO Agreement). NICO has also provided an 85 percent pro rata share of $150 million of reinsurance protection on losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses incurred on or before December 31, 1992 in excess of a retention of $755 million (the 1992 NICO Agreement). At December 31, 2005, the remaining unused incurred limit under the 1998 NICO Agreement was $489 million. The 1992 NICO Agreement is exhausted on an incurred basis. The following presents a roll forward of net loss and loss adjustment expense reserves in respect of 1996 and prior Westchester Specialty operations that are the subject business of the NICO covers. Westchester Specialty NICO Net of NICO (in millions of U.S. dollars) A&E Other* Total Coverage Coverage Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 220 $ 227 $ 447 $ 379 $ 68 Losses and allocated expenses incurred 13 13 9 4 Losses and allocated loss expenses paid (9 ) (30 ) (39 ) (13 ) (26 ) Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 211 $ 210 $ 421 $ 375 $ 46 * Other consists primarily of non A&E general liability and products liability losses. Reserve Reviews We performed a ground up review of our consolidated A&E liabilities as of September 30, 2005. The comprehensive evaluation indicated a number of adjustments to particular account reserve balances but the overall result of the review indicated that no adjustment to total reserves was required. This internal review followed a review conducted last year by a team of external actuaries who performed an evaluation as to the adequacy of the reserves of Century and its two U.S. insurance subsidiaries, ACE American Reinsurance Company (ACE American Re) and Century Reinsurance Company (Century Re), both Pennsylvania insurers. The external review was conducted in accordance with the Brandywine Restructuring Order, which requires that an external actuarial review of Centurys reserves be completed every two years. The studies were completed early in 2005 and adjustments consistent with the best estimate of the internal review were recorded as of December 31, 2004. Activity in the period since completing the studies has not indicated a need to further adjust ultimate A&E reserves as of December 31, 2005. Our A&E reserves are not discounted and do not reflect any anticipated changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. Reserving Considerations For asbestos, we face claims relating to policies issued to manufacturers, distributors, installers and other parties in the chain of commerce for asbestos and products containing asbestos. Claims can be filed by individual claimants or group of claimants with the potential for hundreds of individual claimants at one time. Claimants will generally allege damages across an extended time period which may coincide with multiple policies for a single insured. Our definition of an asbestos claim count is a policyholder asbestos cause of action, with claims for bodily injury and property damage tracked separately. For example, an asbestos manufacturer who faces products liability claims alleging bodily injury from exposure to their product would generate one count regardless of the number of policies we may have issued or the actual numbers of underlying claimants alleging bodily injury damages. Environmental claims present exposure for remediation and defense costs associated with property damage as a result of pollution. It is common, especially for larger defendants, to be named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at multiple sites. Our environmental claim count definition is based on policyholder by site numbers. For example, if a policyholder were named as a PRP at ten pollution sites we would track this as ten claim counts. In addition, should we have multiple policyholders identified as PRPs at the same waste site, each would constitute a separate claim count. 71 The table below summarizes count information for asbestos and environmental claims for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, for direct policies only, and excludes claims from assumed reinsurance. 2005 2004 Asbestos (by causative agent) Open at the beginning of year 1,340 1,318 Newly reported 118 190 Closed or otherwise disposed 109 168 Open at end of year 1,349 1,340 Environmental (by site) Open at the beginning of year 7,172 8,588 Newly reported 345 549 Closed or otherwise disposed 615 1,965 Open at end of year 6,902 7,172 In 2005, the number of newly reported asbestos counts declined to 118 versus 190 new claims in 2004, a decrease of 38 percent. The total pending asbestos claims at December 31, 2005 were 1,349 as shown in the table above, a one percent increase over pending claims at December 31, 2004. In 2005, the number of newly reported environmental claims continued the downward decline experienced in recent years. The number of new sites in 2005 was 345, representing a decline of 37 percent over the 549 new sites reported in 2004. Total pending environmental claims at December 31, 2005 were 6,902, a four percent decline from the prior year. Following are gross and net survival ratios for our asbestos loss and ALAE reserves at December 31, 2005. The net ratios reflect third party reinsurance other than the aggregate excess reinsurance provided under the NICO contracts. These survival ratios are calculated by dividing the asbestos loss and ALAE reserves by the average asbestos loss and ALAE payments for the three most recent calendar years (3 year survival ratio), and by asbestos loss and ALAE payments in 2005 (1 year survival ratio). The survival ratios provide only a very rough measure of reserve adequacy and are significantly impacted by a number of factors such as aggressive settlement practices, variations in gross to ceded relationships within the asbestos claims and levels of coverage provided. We therefore urge caution in using these very simplistic ratios to gauge reserve adequacy and note that the 1 year survival ratios, particularly, are likely to move considerably from year to year for the reasons just described. The 1 year net survival ratio, for example, was heavily impacted by a single large cession of paid losses in 2005 that is not likely to repeat. 3 Year Survival Ratios 1 Year Survival Ratios Gross Net Gross Net 13.1 14.2 16.7 33.0 Brandywine Run off Entities As part of the acquisition of the CIGNA P&C business, NICO provided $2.5 billion of reinsurance protection to Century on all Brandywine loss and loss adjustment expense reserves and on the A&E reserves of various ACE INA insurance subsidiaries reinsured by Century (in each case, including uncollectible reinsurance). The benefits of this NICO contract (the Brandywine NICO Agreement) flow to the other Brandywine companies and to the ACE INA insurance subsidiaries through reinsurance agreements between those companies and Century. The Brandywine NICO Agreement was exhausted on an incurred basis with the increase in the A&E reserves in the fourth quarter of 2002. In addition to housing a significant portion of our A&E exposure, the Brandywine operations include run off liabilities related to various insurance and reinsurance businesses. The following companies comprise ACEs Brandywine operations: Century, a Pennsylvania insurer, Century Re, ACE American Re, Brandywine Reinsurance Company S.A. N.V., a Belgium insurer (Brandywine SANV), Century International Reinsurance Company Ltd., a Bermuda insurer (CIRC), and Brandywine Reinsurance Company (UK) Ltd., a U.K. insurer (BRUK). All of the Brandywine companies are direct or indirect subsidiaries of Brandywine Holdings except for BRUK, which is a direct subsidiary of ACE INA International Holdings, Ltd. (ACE INA International Holdings). BRUKs liabilities have been ceded to Century through CIRC. 72 The U.S. based ACE INA companies assumed two contractual obligations in respect of the Brandywine operations in connection with the Restructuring: a dividend retention fund obligation and a surplus maintenance obligation in the form of an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement. In accordance with the Brandywine restructuring order, INA Financial Corporation established and funded a dividend retention fund (the Dividend Retention Fund) consisting of $50 million plus investment earnings. The full balance of the Dividend Retention Fund was contributed to Century as of December 31, 2002. To the extent future dividends are paid by INA Holdings Corporation to its parent, INA Financial Corporation, and to the extent INA Financial Corporation then pays such dividends to INA Corporation, a portion of those dividends must be withheld to replenish the principal of the Dividend Retention Fund to $50 million within five years. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, no such dividends were paid, and therefore no replenishment of the Dividend Retention Fund occurred. The obligation to maintain and to replenish the Dividend Retention Fund as necessary and to the extent dividends are paid is ongoing until ACE INA receives prior written approval from the Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner to terminate the fund. In addition, the ACE INA insurance subsidiaries are obligated to provide insurance coverage to Century in the amount of $800 million under an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement (the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement) if the statutory capital and surplus of Century falls below $25 million or if Century lacks liquid assets with which to pay claims as they become due, after giving effect to the contribution of the balance, if any, of the Dividend Retention Fund. Coverage under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement was triggered as of December 31, 2002 following contribution of the balance of the Dividend Retention Fund, because Centurys capital and surplus fell below $25 million at December 31, 2002. Effective December 31, 2004, ACE INA Holdings contributed $100 million to Century in exchange for a surplus note. After giving effect to the contribution and issuance of the surplus note, the statutory surplus of Century at December 31, 2005 was $25 million and approximately $465 million in statutory basis losses were ceded to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement. Century reports the amount ceded under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement in accordance with statutory accounting principles, which differ from GAAP by, among other things, allowing Century to discount its asbestos and environmental reserves. For GAAP reporting purposes, intercompany reinsurance recoverables related to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement are eliminated in consolidation. To estimate ACEs remaining claim exposure under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement under GAAP, we adjust the statutory cession to exclude the discount embedded in statutory loss reserves. At December 31, 2005, approximately $793 million in GAAP basis losses were ceded under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement, leaving a remaining limit of coverage under that agreement of approximately $7 million. While we believe ACE has no legal obligation to fund losses above the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement limit of coverage, ACEs consolidated results would nevertheless continue to report any losses above the limit of coverage for so long as those Brandywine companies remain consolidated subsidiaries of ACE. Uncertainties Relating to ACEs Ultimate Brandywine Exposure In addition to the Dividend Retention Fund and Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement commitments described above, certain ACE entities are primarily liable for asbestos, environmental and other exposures that they have reinsured to Century. Accordingly, if Century were to become insolvent and ACE were to lose control of Century, some or all of the recoverables due to these ACE companies from Century could become uncollectible, yet those ACE entities would continue to be responsible to pay claims to their insureds or reinsureds. Under such circumstances, ACE would recognize a loss in its consolidated statement of operations. As of December 31, 2005, the aggregate reinsurance balances ceded by the active ACE companies to Century were approximately $1.6 billion. At December 31, 2005, Centurys carried gross reserves (including reserves ceded by the active ACE companies to Century) were $4.5 billion. We believe the intercompany reinsurance recoverables, which relate to liabilities payable over many years (i.e., 25 years or more), are not impaired at this time. A substantial portion of the liabilities ceded to Century by its affiliates have in turn been ceded by Century to NICO and, as of December 31, 2005, approximately $1.9 billion of cover remains on a paid basis. The impact of the transaction described below would reduce the balance due from Century to active ACE Companies by $90 million. Should Centurys loss reserves experience adverse development in the future and should Century be placed into rehabilitation or liquidation, the reinsurance recoverables due to Centurys affiliates would be payable only after the payment in full of certain expense and liabilities, including administrative expenses and direct policy liabilities. Thus, the intercompany reinsurance recoverables would be at risk to the extent of the shortage of assets remaining to pay these recoverables. As of December 31, 2005, reserves ceded by Century to the active ACE companies and other amounts owed to Century by the ACE active companies were approximately $800 million in the aggregate. 73 In a lawsuit filed in California state court in December 1999 (AICCO, Inc v. Insurance Company of North America, et al.) certain competitors of ACE USA challenged the validity of the Restructuring under Californias Unfair Competition Law, Business and Professions Code Section 17200 (UCL). The lawsuit claims that the Restructuring is not applicable to California policyholders under the UCL because it constituted a transfer of liabilities without the consent of the policyholders. The suit also claims that the notice of the Restructuring was misleading. In November 2004, the voters of California approved Proposition 64 amending the UCL by, among other things, requiring that lawsuits brought under the UCL be brought by plaintiffs who have suffered actual injury as a result of the challenged business practice. In response to a motion to dismiss brought by ACE USA, the court ruled in February 2005 that the competitors/plaintiffs who brought this suit have not alleged actual injury as required by Proposition 64 and dismissed the suit. Plaintiffs filed a timely notice of appeal on May 5, 2005. Pending Sale of Certain Brandywine Companies On January 5, 2005, Century and ACE INA International Holdings entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with Randall & Quilter Investment Holdings Limited (R&Q), which provides for the sale of ACE American Re, BRUK and Brandywine SANV to R&Q. Closing of the sale is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including without limitation the obtaining of all necessary consents and approvals from third parties, including the Pennsylvania Insurance Department and the Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom, and the commutation of certain affiliate reinsurance agreements. In connection with certain of these commutations, Centurys assumed loss reserves would be reduced and an associated amount of coverage would become available under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement. The Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom granted approval for the transaction on February 27, 2006. We are considering potential options for the disposition of other Brandywine entities, including a possible sale of Century. There can be no assurance that any such sale or other disposition will be consummated. Legislative Initiatives On May 26, 2005, the Senate Judiciary Committee passed out of committee legislation to move all U.S. asbestos bodily injury claims to a federal trust for compensation in accordance with an established set of medical criteria and claim values. The trust would be funded by asbestos defendants and their insurers. As currently proposed, ACE would be one of the insurer participants. The full Senate began consideration of the bill in early February 2006. A budget point of order was raised asserting that the bill would cost the federal government more than $5 billion over a ten year period in violation of a congressional limit on spending. On February 14, 2006, the Senate failed to obtain the 60 votes necessary to waive the budget point of order which has the effect of sending the bill back to the Senate Judiciary Committee. While a second vote on the budget point of order is possible, at this point passage of the trust does not appear likely. Reinsurance One of the ways we manage our loss exposure is through the use of reinsurance. While reinsurance agreements are designed to limit our losses from large exposures and permit recovery of a portion of direct unpaid losses, reinsurance does not relieve us of our liability to our insureds. Accordingly, the losses and loss expense reserves on our balance sheet represent our total unpaid gross losses. The reinsurance recoverable represents anticipated recoveries of a portion of those gross unpaid losses as well as amounts recoverable from reinsurers with respect to claims paid. The table below presents our net reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) December 312005 December 312004 Reinsurance recoverable on paid losses and loss expenses $ 1,191 $ 1,210 Provision for uncollectible reinsurance on paid losses and loss expenses (336 ) (309 ) Reinsurance recoverable on future policy benefits 11 15 Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses 15,048 14,585 Provision for uncollectible reinsurance on unpaid losses and loss expenses (451 ) (619 ) Net reinsurance recoverable $ 15,463 $ 14,882 74 Our reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses increased in 2005, primarily due to catastrophe losses which added approximately $1.4 billion to the balance. This impact was partially offset by the novation of approximately $600 million of reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses as intended under our 1999 agreement in connection with the purchase of CIGNAs P&C businesses. During 2005, we wrote off approximately $130 million of reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses (and associated provision for uncollectible reinsurance of the same amount) which we believe to be uncollectible. This action had no impact on our net income. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate cash flows sufficient to meet short term and long term cash requirements of its business operations. As a holding company, ACE Limited possesses assets that consist primarily of the stock of its subsidiaries, and of other investments. In addition to net investment income, our cash flows currently depend primarily on dividends or other statutorily permissible payments. Historically, these dividends and other payments have come from our Bermuda based operating subsidiaries, which we refer to as our Bermuda subsidiaries. As an insurance company, one of our principal responsibilities to our clients is to ensure that we have ready access to funds to settle large unforeseen claims. Given anticipated growth in premiums and a lengthening of the average duration of our claim liabilities due to a higher proportionate growth in long tail relative to short tail business, we expect that positive cash flow from operations (underwriting activities and investment income) will be sufficient to cover cash outflows under most loss scenarios through 2006. To further ensure the sufficiency of funds to settle unforeseen claims, we hold a certain amount of invested assets in cash and short term investments and maintain available credit facilities (see section entitled, Credit Facilities, below). In addition, for certain insurance, reinsurance, or deposit contracts that tend to have relatively large and reasonably predictable cash outflows, such as loss portfolio contracts, we attempt to establish dedicated portfolios of assets that are duration matched with the related liabilities. With respect to the duration of our overall investment portfolio, we manage asset durations to both maximize return given current market conditions and provide sufficient liquidity to cover future loss payments. In a low interest rate environment, the overall duration of our fixed maturity investments tends to be shorter and in a high interest rate environment, such durations tend to be longer. Given the current low rate environment, at December 31, 2005, the average duration of our fixed maturity investments (2.9 years) is less than the average expected duration of our insurance liabilities (4.0 years). Despite our safeguards, if paid losses accelerated beyond our ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows, we might need to either liquidate a portion of our investment portfolio or arrange for financing. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could be several significant catastrophes occurring in a relatively short period of time or large scale uncollectible reinsurance recoverables on paid losses (as a result of coverage disputes, reinsurers credit problems or decreases in the value of collateral supporting reinsurance recoverables). Additional strain on liquidity could occur if the investments sold to fund loss payments were sold at depressed prices. Because each subsidiary focuses on a more limited number of specific product lines than is collectively available from the ACE group of companies, the mix of business tends to be less diverse at the subsidiary level. As a result, the probability of a liquidity strain, as described above, may be greater for individual subsidiaries than when liquidity is assessed on a consolidated basis. If such a liquidity strain were to occur in a subsidiary, we could liquidate a portion of the portfolio as well as be required to contribute capital to the particular subsidiary and or curtail dividends from the subsidiary to support holding company operations. The payments of dividends or other statutorily permissible distributions from our operating companies are subject to the laws and regulations applicable to each jurisdiction, as well as the need to maintain capital levels adequate to support the insurance and reinsurance operations, including financial strength ratings issued by independent rating agencies, which are discussed below. During 2005, we were able to meet all of our obligations, including the payment of dividends declared on our Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares, with our net cash flow and dividends received. Should the need arise, we generally have access to the capital markets (which we accessed in 2005, refer to Capital Resources for more information) and other available credit facilities. We assess which subsidiaries to draw dividends from based on a number of factors. Considerations such as regulatory and legal restrictions as well as the subsidiarys financial condition are paramount to the dividend decision. The legal restrictions on the payment of dividends from retained earnings by our Bermuda subsidiaries are currently 75 satisfied by the share capital and additional paid in capital of each of the Bermuda subsidiaries. During 2005, ACE Bermuda and ACE Tempest Life Reinsurance Ltd declared and paid dividends of $548 million and $32 million, respectively. During 2004, ACE Bermuda and ACE Tempest Life Reinsurance Ltd declared and paid dividends of $227 million and $259 million, respectively. We expect that a majority of our cash inflows in 2006 will be from our Bermuda subsidiaries. The payment of any dividends from ACE Global Markets or its subsidiaries is subject to applicable U.K. insurance laws and regulations. In addition, the release of funds by Syndicate 2488 to subsidiaries of ACE Global Markets is subject to regulations promulgated by the Society of Lloyds. ACE INAs U.S. insurance subsidiaries may pay dividends, without prior regulatory approval, subject to restrictions set out in state law of the subsidiarys domicile (or, if applicable, commercial domicile). Typically, restrictions state that dividends may only be paid from earned surplus (unassigned funds) and are subject to (i) certain limitations based upon the policyholder surplus and or net income or investment income of the insurer (specific threshold set by state law of insurers domicile); (ii) total dividends paid during a twelve month period, and (iii) the maintenance of minimum capital requirements. ACE INAs international subsidiaries are also subject to insurance laws and regulations particular to the countries in which the subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations sometimes include restrictions that limit the amount of dividends payable without prior approval of regulatory insurance authorities. ACE Limited did not receive any dividends from ACE Global Markets or ACE INA in 2005 and 2004. The debt issued by ACE INA to provide partial financing for the ACE INA acquisition and for other operating needs is serviced by statutorily permissible distributions by ACE INAs insurance subsidiaries to ACE INA as well as other group resources. Our consolidated sources of funds consist primarily of net premiums written, net investment income and proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. Funds are used primarily to pay claims, operating expenses, dividends and for the purchase of investments. After satisfying our cash requirements, excess cash flows from these underwriting and investing activities are invested. Our insurance and reinsurance operations provide liquidity in that premiums are received in advance, sometimes substantially in advance, of the time claims are paid. Generally cash flows are affected by claim payments that, due to the nature of our operations, may comprise large loss payments on a limited number of claims and which can fluctuate significantly from period to period. The irregular timing of these loss payments can create significant variations in cash flows from operations between periods. Refer to the section entitled, Contractual obligations and commitments for our estimate for future claim payments by period. Sources of liquidity include cash from operations, routine sales of investments and financing arrangements. Our consolidated net cash flows from operating activities were $4.3 billion in 2005, compared with $4.9 billion in 2004. These amounts reflect net income for each period, adjusted for non cash items and changes in working capital. Net income decreased $125 million in 2005, compared with 2004. Primarily due to the significant catastrophe losses (and related payments) over the last two years, our net losses and loss expenses paid increased to $5.4 billion in 2005, compared with $4.8 billion for the same period in 2004. Our consolidated net cash flows used for investing activities were $5.6 billion in 2005 compared with $4.9 billion in 2004. For the indicated periods, net cash flows used for investing activities were related principally to purchases of fixed maturities. Net purchases of fixed maturities were $5.5 billion in 2005, compared with $5.1 billion in 2004. In 2005, net cash flows used for investing activities benefited from the net proceeds of the public offering of approximately $1.5 billion. Net cash flows used for investing activities in 2004, included $959 million from the sale of Assured Guaranty (net of cash sold of $82 million). Our consolidated net cash flows from financing activities were $1.3 billion in 2005, compared with consolidated net cash flows used for financing activities of $155 million in 2004. For the current year, cash flows from financing activities increased due to our public offering, and due to an increase in proceeds from the exercise of options for Ordinary Shares. Although our ongoing operations continue to generate positive cash flows, our cash flows are currently impacted by a large book of loss reserves from businesses in run off. The run off operations generated negative operating cash flows of $170 million in 2005, compared with $88 million in 2004. Both internal and external forces influence our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Claim settlements, premium levels and investment returns may be impacted by changing rates of inflation and other economic conditions. In many cases, significant periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, may lapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us and the settlement of the liability for that 76 loss. We believe that our cash balances, cash flow from operations, routine sales of investments and the liquidity provided by our credit facilities, as discussed below, are adequate to meet expected cash requirements. In order to enhance cash management efficiency, during the first quarter of 2006 we entered into an agreement to implement a multi currency notional cash pooling program with a bank provider. In this program, participating ACE entities (based on regulatory approval) establish deposit accounts in different currencies with the bank provider and, each day, the credit or debit balances in each account are notionally translated into a single currency (US dollars in our case) and then notionally pooled. The bank extends overdraft credit to any participating ACE entity as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts at the end of each day is at least zero. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not co mingled between legal entities. This program is particularly effective during periods of short term timing mismatches between expected inflows and outflows of cash by currency. ACE entities may incur overdraft balances as a means to address such mismatches, and any overdraft balances incurred under this program by an ACE entity would be guaranteed by ACE Limited (up to $50 million in the aggregate) and classified as short term debt on our balance sheet. ACE Limited has negotiated a dedicated credit facility to support this program. ACE and its subsidiaries are assigned debt and financial strength (insurance) ratings from internationally recognized rating agencies, including S&P, A.M. Best, Moodys Investors Service and Fitch IBCA. The ratings issued on our companies by these agencies are announced publicly and are available directly from the agencies. Our internet site, acelimited.com, also contains some information about our ratings, which can be found under the Investor Information tab. Financial strength ratings represent the opinions of the rating agencies on the financial strength of a company and its capacity to meet the obligations of insurance policies. Independent ratings are one of the important factors that establish our competitive position in the insurance markets. The rating agencies consider many factors in determining the financial strength rating of an insurance company, including the relative level of statutory surplus necessary to support the business operations of the company. These ratings are based upon factors relevant to policyholders, agents and intermediaries and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities. Debt ratings apply to short term and long term debt as well as preferred stock. These ratings are assessments of the likelihood that we will make timely payments of principal and interest and preferred stock dividends. It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies may reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. In addition, our insurance and reinsurance operations could be adversely impacted by a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, including a possible reduction in demand for our products in certain markets. Capital Resources Capital resources consist of funds deployed or available to be deployed to support our business operations. The following table summarizes the components of our capital resources at December 31, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) December 31 2005 December 31 2004 Short term debt $ 300 $ 146 Long term debt 1,811 1,849 Total debt 2,111 1,995 Trust preferred securities 309 412 Preferred Shares 557 557 Ordinary shareholders equity 11,255 9,288 Total shareholders equity 11,812 9,845 Total capitalization $ 14,232 $ 12,252 Ratio of debt to total capitalization 14.8% 16.3% Ratio of debt plus trust preferreds to total capitalization 17.0% 19.6% We believe our financial strength provides us with the flexibility and capacity to obtain funds externally through debt or equity financing on both a short term and long term basis. Our ability to access the capital markets is dependent on, 77 among other things, market conditions and our perceived financial strength. We have accessed both the debt and equity markets from time to time. On October 4, 2005, we completed a public offering of 32.91 million Ordinary Shares (which included the over allotment option of 4.29 million Ordinary Shares) at a price per share of $45.58, for total gross proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion. We are using the net proceeds of the offering for growth opportunities in the global insurance and reinsurance markets. As part of our capital management program, in November 2001, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of any ACE issued debt or capital securities including Ordinary Shares, up to $250 million. At December 31, 2005, this authorization had not been utilized. During 2004, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC relating to the issuance of up to $1.5 billion of certain types of debt and equity securities. This registration became effective during the first quarter of 2005, and was exhausted upon completion of our approximately $1.5 billion public offering in October 2005. We generally maintain shelf capacity at all times, in order to allow capital market access for refinancing as well as for unforeseen capital needs. Consistent with this policy, on December 16, 2005, we filed an unlimited shelf registration statement under the SECs new securities reform rules. The automatic shelf registration expires in December 2008. Shareholders Equity The following table analyzes the movements in our shareholders equity for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Balance, beginning of year $ 9,845 $ 8,823 $ 6,271 Net income 1,028 1,153 1,482 Change in net unrealized appreciation on investments, net of income tax (317 ) (50 ) 208 Dividends declared Ordinary Shares (267 ) (233 ) (204 ) Dividends declared Preferred Shares (45 ) (45 ) (22 ) Cumulative translation adjustments (91 ) 99 107 Issuance of Ordinary Shares 1,465 Other movements, net 194 98 123 Dividends declared Mezzanine equity (10 ) Issuance of Preferred Shares 557 Conversion of Mezzanine equity 311 Balance, end of year $ 11,812 $ 9,845 $ 8,823 Our book value per Ordinary Share increased to $34.81 at December 31, 2005, compared with $32.65 at December 31, 2004. Shareholders equity increased $2 billion in 2005, primarily due to net income and the proceeds of the public offering, partially offset by unrealized depreciation on our investment portfolio and dividends declared. On January 14, 2005, and April 14, 2005, we paid dividends of 21 cents per Ordinary Share to shareholders of record on December 31, 2004 and March 31, 2005, respectively. On July 14, 2005, October 14, 2005, and January 12, 2006, we paid dividends of 23 cents per Ordinary Share to shareholders of record on June 30, 2005, September 30, 2005, and December 30, 2005, respectively. We have paid dividends each quarter since we became a public company in 1993. However, the declaration, payment and value of future dividends on Ordinary Shares is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our profits, financial requirements and other factors, including legal restrictions on the payment of dividends and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. Dividends on the Preferred Shares are payable quarterly, when and if declared by our Board of Directors, in arrears on March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1 of each year. In 2005, we paid dividends of $4.875 per Preferred Share (which translates to $48.75 cents per Depositary Share) on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1, to shareholders of record on February 28, May 31, August 31, and November 30, respectively. 78 Contractual Obligations and Commitments The table below shows our contractual obligations and commitments including our payments due by period at December 31, 2005: Payments Due By Period (in millions of U.S. dollars) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years Payment amounts determinable from the contract Deposit liabilities $ 350 $ 81 $ 114 $ 49 $ 106 Operating leases 360 58 98 76 128 Short term debt 300 300 Long term debt 1,811 823 374 614 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Interest on debt obligations 1,371 154 217 167 833 Total obligations in which payment amounts are determinable from the contract 4,501 593 1,252 666 1,990 Payment amounts not determinable from the contract Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts 35,055 7,693 9,279 5,058 13,025 Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 39,556 $ 8,286 $ 10,531 $ 5,724 $ 15,015 The above table excludes pension obligations, funding commitments to limited partnerships and future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts. Minimum funding requirements for our pension obligations are immaterial over the next year. Subsequent funding commitments are apt to vary due to many factors and are difficult to estimate at this time. In connection with our investments in limited partnerships, we have commitments that may require funding of up to $153 million over the next several years. As the timing of payment of these commitments is unknown, we have excluded the amounts from the above table. We establish reserves for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts, including, but not limited to, guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDBs) and GMIBs. Payment amounts related to these reserves must be estimated and are not determinable from the contract. We estimate that on a discounted basis, we expect to pay $521 million associated with these obligations, the majority of which will be paid in excess of five years. In addition, the above table excludes our Preferred Shares, issued in 2003, which have no fixed repayment terms. We may redeem the Preferred Shares at any time after May 30, 2008, at a redemption value of $25 per depository share (each of which represent one tenth of one of Preferred Share) or at any time under certain limited circumstances. Refer to Note 9 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our Preferred Shares. Deposit Liabilities Deposit liabilities of $350 million include reinsurance deposit liabilities of $212 million and contract holder deposit funds of $138 million. Contract holder deposit funds represent a liability for investment contracts sold that do not meet the definition of an insurance contract under FAS No. 97, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments. The investment contracts are sold with a guaranteed rate of return. The proceeds are then invested with the intent of realizing a greater return than is called for in the investment contracts. Additional information with respect to deposit liabilities is contained in Note 2 j) of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating Lease Commitments We lease office space in most countries in which we operate under operating leases that expire at various dates through December 2033. We renew and enter into new leases in the ordinary course of business as required. 79 Short term Debt From time to time, we use securities repurchase agreements as a source of short term liquidity. Under these repurchase agreements, we agree to sell securities and repurchase them at a future date for a predetermined price, thereby creating liquidity. The covenants of our existing credit facilities limit our borrowing under repurchase agreements to $1 billion. At December 31, 2005, no repurchase agreements were outstanding. Included in short term debt at December 31, 2005 was ACE INAs $300 million, 8.3 percent notes due in August 2006. In June 1999, we arranged certain commercial paper programs. The programs use revolving credit facilities as back up facilities and (following a reduction in program size by ACE Limited and ACE INA during the second quarter of 2005), provide for up to $600 million in commercial paper issuance (subject to the availability of back up facilities, which currently total $600 million) at each of ACE Limited and ACE INA. At December 31, 2005, there was no commercial paper outstanding. Long term Debt Our total long term debt of $1.8 billion is described in detail in Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2005, ACE European Holdings No. 2 Limited entered into a &pound;100 million syndicated five year term loan agreement and ACE Australia Holdings PTY Limited entered into an AUD $100 million syndicated two year term loan agreement. Obligations of both borrowers under each loan agreement were guaranteed by ACE Limited. Both loan agreements are unsecured and repayable on maturity. The total proceeds were used to retire indebtedness of ACE INA Holdings Inc. and for general corporate purposes. In August 2005, due to favorable low interest terms, ACE American borrowed $10 million from the Pennsylvania Industrial Development Authority (PIDA) at a rate of 2.75 percent due September 1, 2020. The proceeds from PIDA were restricted for purposes of defraying construction costs on a new office building. Principle and interest are payable on a monthly basis. The current balance outstanding is $10 million. Long term debt for 2005 also includes a reclassified loan of $5 million from the City of Philadelphia under the Urban Development Action Grant (UDAG). Both of these loans support real estate used in the day to day operations of subsidiaries. Additionally, the ACE INA issued $300 million, 8.3 percent notes due August 15, 2006, were reclassified from long term debt to short term debt. The following instruments have specific collateral triggers. In 1998, ACE US Holdings issued $250 million of unsecured senior notes that mature in October 2008. In December 1999, ACE INA issued $300 million of unsecured subordinated notes that mature in December 2009 we repaid $100 million of this outstanding amount during 2002. We have a $450 million credit default swap in place that has the economic effect of reducing our cost of borrowing associated with these two issuances. The minimum collateral in connection with the credit default swap is $158 million. The actual collateral can be higher depending on the credit quality of securities pledged. Under these transactions, we would be required to provide collateral of $450 million if S&P downgraded our debt rating to BB+ or lower, or downgraded ACE Bermudas financial strength rating to BBB or lower. Although there can be no assurance, we believe it is unlikely that either of these two events will occur. In the event that we terminate either of the swaps prematurely, we would be liable for certain transaction costs. The counter party in each swap is a highly rated major financial institution and management does not anticipate non performance. Trust Preferred Securities During 1999 and 2000, we issued $800 million of trust preferred securities. The funds generated from these issues were used to partially finance the ACE INA acquisition. In 2002, $400 million of the trust preferred securities matured and were repaid. In 2005 and 2004, we repaid an additional $175 million ($100 million ACE INA trust preferred securities in 2005 and $75 million Capital Re trust preferred securities in 2004). The securities outstanding consist of $300 million of trust preferred securities issued by a special purpose entity (a trust) that is wholly owned by us. The sole assets of the special purpose entities are debt instruments issued by one or more of our subsidiaries. The special purpose entity looks to payments on the debt instruments to make payments on the preferred securities. We have guaranteed the payments on these debt instruments. The trustees of the trust include one or more of our officers and at least one independent trustee, such as a trust company. Our officers serving as trustees of the trust do not receive any compensation or other remuneration for their services in such capacity. The full $309 million of outstanding trust preferred stock (calculated as $300 million as discussed above plus our equity share of the trust) is shown on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability. Additional information with respect to the trust preferred securities is contained in Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. 80 Estimated Gross Loss Payments under Insurance and Reinsurance Contracts We are obligated to pay claims under insurance and reinsurance contracts for specified loss events covered under those contracts. As a P&C insurance and reinsurance company, such loss payments represent our most significant future payment obligation. In contrast to other contractual obligations, cash payments are not determinable from the terms specified within the contract. For example, we do not ultimately make a payment to our counterparty for many insurance and reinsurance contracts (i.e., when a loss event has not occurred) and if a payment is to be made, the amount and timing cannot be determined from the contract. In the table above, we estimate payments by period relating to our gross liability for unpaid losses and loss expenses included in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2005 and do not take reinsurance recoverables into account. These estimated loss payments are inherently uncertain and the amount and timing of actual loss payments are likely to differ from these estimates and the differences could be material. Given the numerous factors and assumptions involved in both estimates of losses and loss expense reserves and related estimates as to the timing of future losses and loss expense payments in the table above, differences between actual and estimated loss payments will not necessarily indicate a commensurate change in ultimate loss estimates. Credit Facilities As our Bermuda subsidiaries are not admitted insurers and reinsurers in the U.S., the terms of certain U.S. insurance and reinsurance contracts require them to provide letters of credit (LOCs) to clients. In addition, ACE Global Markets is required to satisfy certain U.S. regulatory trust fund requirements which can be met by the issuance of LOCs. LOCs may also be used for general corporate purposes and for Funds at Lloyds. The following table shows our credit facilities by credit line, usage, expiry date and purpose at December 31, 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Credit Line(1) Usage Expiry Date Unsecured Liquidity Facilities ACE Limited(2) $ 600 $ 64 Dec. 2010 Secured Operational LOC Facilities ACE Limited 500 303 July 2010 Other(3) 71 71 Various Unsecured Operational LOC Facilities ACE Limited 1,000 753 July 2010 Unsecured Capital Facilities ACE Limited(4) 655 489 Dec. 2010 Total $ 2,826 $ 1,680 (1) Certain facilities are guaranteed by operating subsidiaries and or ACE Limited. (2) Commercial paper back up facility may also be used for LOCs. (3) These facilities are issued in the name of ACE European Group Limited, Lloyds Syndicate 2488 and Century Indemnity Reinsurance Company. (4) Supports ACE Global Markets 2005 underwriting capacity of &pound;400 million (approximately $689 million) for Lloyds Syndicate 2488 there is an expectation that this facility will be fully utilized during 2006. With the exception of the LOC facilities noted under Other, the facilities noted above require that we maintain certain covenants, all of which have been met at December 31, 2005. These covenants include: (i) maintenance of a minimum consolidated net worth in an amount not less than the Minimum Amount. For the purpose of this calculation, the Minimum Amount is an amount equal to the sum of the base amount (currently $6.4 billion) plus 25 percent of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter, ending after the date on which the current base amount became effective, plus 50 percent of any increase in consolidated net worth during the same period, attributable to the issuance of ordinary and preferred shares. The Minimum Amount is subject to an annual reset provision; and (ii) maintenance of a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of not greater than 0.35 to 1. Under this covenant, debt does not include trust preferred securities or mezzanine equity, except where the ratio of the sum of trust preferred securities and mezzanine equity to total capitalization is greater than 15 percent. In this circumstance, the amount greater than 15 percent would be included in the debt to total capitalization ratio. 81 At December 31, 2005, (a) the minimum consolidated net worth requirement under the covenant described in (i) above was $7.4 billion and our actual consolidated net worth as calculated under that covenant was $11.5 billion; and (b) our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 0.15 to 1. In addition to these covenants, the ACE Global Markets capital facility requires that collateral be posted if the financial strength rating of ACE falls to S&P BBB+ or lower. Our failure to comply with the covenants under any credit facility would, subject to grace periods in the case of certain covenants, result in an event of default. This could require us to repay any outstanding borrowings or to cash collateralize letters of credit under such facility. A failure by ACE Limited (or any of its subsidiaries) to pay an obligation due for an amount exceeding $50 million would result in an event of default under all of the facilities described above. American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act (the Act) was signed into law by the President of the United States. The Act provides for the election of a special one time tax deduction of 85 percent of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated (as defined in the Act) under a Domestic Reinvestment Plan (DRP) to its United States parent corporation in either the parents last tax year that began before the enactment date, or the first tax year that begins during the one year period beginning on the date of enactment. The Act was subsequently modified by several tax technical correction provisions included in the Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005. We will apply the provisions of the Act (as modified) to certain of our subsidiaries for the 2005 tax year. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we repatriated foreign earnings of $500 million subject to DRPs that qualify for preferential treatment under the Act. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the tax benefit under the Act associated with these repatriations is $69 million and is a result of the reduction of the net deferred tax liability associated with these repatriated earnings. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 q) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Market Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. We are exposed to potential loss to various market risks, including changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Further, through the writings of certain products such as credit derivatives (through our approximately 35 percent ownership of Assured Guaranty) and GMIB and GMDB products, we are exposed to deterioration in the credit markets, decreases in interest rates and declines in the equity markets. Our investment portfolio consists of both fixed income and equity securities, denominated in both U.S. and foreign currencies, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our fixed income and all of our equity securities are classified as available for sale, and as such changes in interest rates, equity prices or foreign currency exchange rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Nevertheless, changes in interest rates and equity prices effect consolidated net income when, and if, a security is sold or impaired. From time to time, we also use investment derivative instruments such as futures, options, interest rate swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage the duration of our investment portfolio and foreign currency exposures and also to obtain exposure to a particular financial market. In addition, as part of our investing activity, we purchase TBAs. These instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are sensitive to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity security prices. Changes in the fair value of TBAs are included in our net realized gains or losses and therefore have an immediate effect on both our net income and shareholders equity. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, our notional exposure to investment derivative instruments was $17 billion and $4 billion, respectively. The increase in 2005 was primarily due to the use of derivative financial instruments to manage duration and credit risk and the growth size of the investment portfolio. We seek to mitigate market risk using a number of techniques, including maintaining and managing the assets and liabilities of our international operations consistent with the foreign currencies of the underlying insurance and reinsurance businesses, thereby limiting exchange rate risk to net assets denominated in foreign currencies. Also, from 82 time to time, we enter into derivative financial instruments for the purpose of managing certain investment portfolio exposures. The following is a discussion of our primary market risk exposures at December 31, 2005. Our policies to address these risks in 2005 were not materially different from 2004. We do not currently anticipate significant changes in our primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. Interest rate risk Our exposure to interest rate risk is primarily concentrated in our fixed income portfolio, our debt obligations and to a lesser extent, our GMIB reinsurance business. Changes in investment values attributable to interest rate changes are mitigated by corresponding and partially offsetting changes in the economic value of our insurance reserves and debt obligations. We monitor this exposure through periodic reviews of our asset and liability positions. The following table shows the impact on the market value of our fixed income portfolio of an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points applied instantly across the yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario) at December 31, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 Fair value of fixed income portfolio $ 29,639 $ 25,054 Pre tax impact of 100 basis point increase in interest rates $ 824 $ 800 Percentage of total fixed income portfolio at fair value 2.8% 3.2% Changes in interest rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Although our debt, preferred stock, and trust preferred securities (collectively, referred to as debt obligations) are reported at amortized value and not adjusted for fair value changes, changes in interest rates could have a material impact on their fair value, albeit there is no immediate impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table shows the impact on the market value of our debt obligations of a decrease in interest rates of 100 basis points applied instantly across the yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario) at December 31, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 Fair value of debt obligations $ 2,992 $ 3,147 Impact of 100 basis point decrease in interest rates $ 218 $ 250 Percentage of total debt obligations at fair value 7.3% 8.0% Variations in market interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of prepayments due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual results could differ from those reflected in the tables. Our net income is directly impacted by changes in the fair value of GMIBs. For example, net realized gains of $18 million and $10 million were reported for GMIB reinsurance in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The change in the fair value of GMIBs are determined using internal valuation models. Such valuations require considerable judgment and are subject to significant uncertainty. The valuation of these products is subject to fluctuations arising from, among other factors, changes in interest rates, changes in the equity markets, and changes in the allocation of the investments underlying annuitants account value. These models and the related assumptions are continually reviewed by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon improvements in modeling techniques and availability of more timely information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. On September 30, 2005, we entered into a derivative transaction, which has the effect of reducing our net exposure to equity market movements and to a lesser extent, interest rate market movements related to GMIBs. The derivative has an expiration date of September 30, 2015. Including the effect of the derivative, we estimate that based on in force annuities covered by GMIB reinsurance treaties at December 31, 2005, a downward parallel shift of the yield curve of 100 basis points would result in an unrealized losses of approximately $82 million. This estimated change in fair value would be recorded as net realized losses in our net income. The gain or loss created by the estimated fair 83 value adjustment will rise or fall each period based on estimated market pricing and may not be an indication of ultimate claims. Equity price risk Our portfolio of equity securities, which we carry on our balance sheet at fair value, has exposure to price risk. This risk is defined as the potential loss in fair value resulting from adverse changes in stock prices. In addition, we attain exposure to the equity markets through the use of derivative instruments, which also have exposure to price risk. Our U.S. equity portfolio is correlated with the S&P 500 index and changes in that index would approximate the impact on our portfolio. Our international equity portfolio has exposure to a broad range of non U.S. equity markets. The following table provides more information on our exposure to equity price risk at December 31, 2005 and 2004. (millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 Fair value of equity securities $ 1,507 $ 1,265 Fair value of equity derivative instruments 131 Total equity exposure $ 1,507 $ 1,396 Pre tax impact of 10 percent decline in market prices for equity exposures $ 151 $ 140 Changes in fair value of the derivative equity instruments are recorded as net realized gains (losses) in the consolidated statements of operations. Changes in the fair value of our equity portfolio are recorded as unrealized appreciation (depreciation) and are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. As discussed above, our net income is directly impacted by changes in the fair value of GMIBs. Including the derivative purchased as an economic hedge for market risks of GMIBs as discussed above and based on in force annuities covered by GMIB reinsurance treaties at December 31, 2005, we estimate that a 10 percent decline in the S&P index would result in an unrealized loss of approximately $12 million. This estimated change in fair value would be recorded as net realized losses in our net income. The gain or loss created by the estimated fair value adjustment will rise or fall each period based on estimated market pricing and may not be an indication of ultimate claims. Foreign currency exchange rate risk Many of our non U.S. companies maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Therefore, foreign exchange rate risk is generally limited to net assets denominated in those foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. Locally required capital levels are invested in home currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements, and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk for us are the British pound sterling, the Euro and the Canadian dollar. The following table provides more information on our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk at December 31, 2005 and 2004. (millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 Fair value of net assets denominated in foreign currencies $ 995 $ 1,555 Percentage of fair value of total net assets 8.4% 15.8% Pre tax impact of hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of U.S. dollar $ 90 $ 141 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity and capital resources as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes presented on pages F 1 to F 66 of this Form 10 K. The summary financial statements reported in the January 31, 2006 press release were amended to include corrections and reclassifications to the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005 and the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 filed with this Form 10 K. Net income was reduced by $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 primarily due to an increase in losses and loss expenses, a reduction of administrative expenses and related income tax impact within the Insurance North American segment. Overview Our long term business strategy focuses on sustained growth in book value achieved through a combination of underwriting and investment income. By doing so, we provide value to our clients and shareholders through the utilization of our substantial capital base in the insurance and reinsurance markets. ACEs senior management is well seasoned in the insurance industry and its attention to operational efficiency, maintaining balance sheet strength, and enforcing strong underwriting and financial discipline across the whole organization has laid the foundation for sustained earnings and book value growth. As an insurance and reinsurance company, we generate gross revenues from two principal sources, premiums which are usually paid in advance of loss payments, and investment income. Cash flow is generated from premiums collected and investment income received less paid losses and loss expenses, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses. Invested assets are generally held in liquid, investment grade fixed income securities of relatively short duration. We also invest a small portion of our assets in less liquid or higher risk assets in an attempt to achieve higher risk adjusted returns. Claims payments in any short term period are highly unpredictable due to the random nature of loss events and the timing of claims awards or settlements. The value of investments held to pay future claims is subject to market forces such as the level of interest rates, stock market volatility and credit events such as corporate defaults. The actual cost of claims is also volatile based on loss trends, inflation rates, court awards and catastrophes. We believe that our cash balances, our highly liquid investments, credit facilities and reinsurance protection provide sufficient liquidity to meet any unforeseen claim demands that might occur in the year ahead. ACE is organized along a profit center structure that does not necessarily correspond to corporate legal entities. Profit centers can access various legal entities, subject to licensing and other regulatory rules. Profit centers are expected to generate an underwriting income and appropriate risk adjusted returns. This corporate structure has facilitated the development of management talent by giving each profit centers senior management team the necessary autonomy to make operating decisions and create products and coverages needed by its target customer base. ACE is an underwriting company and senior management is focused on delivering underwriting income on a consistent basis. We strive to achieve underwriting income by only writing policies which we believe adequately compensate us for the risk we accept. We will not sacrifice underwriting income for growth. Distinction in service is an additional area of focus and a means to set ACE apart from its competition. The insurance industry is highly competitive, with many companies including several new entrants, offering similar coverage. The rates, terms and conditions related to the products we offer have historically changed depending on the timing of the insurance cycle. During periods of excess underwriting capacity, as defined by availability of capital, competition can result in lower pricing and less favorable terms and conditions. During periods of reduced underwriting capacity, pricing and terms and conditions are generally more favorable. Over the past two years, the insurance industry has faced an unprecedented series of natural catastrophes during 2005, we incurred net catastrophe related pre tax charges of $1.3 billion, compared with $510 million in 2004. This has reduced the availability of capital in our industry and caused rate increases on certain lines, particularly in the areas impacted by the natural catastrophes. In order to take advantage of what we believe will be future growth opportunities in both the insurance and reinsurance markets, on October 4, 2005, we completed a public offering of 37 32.91 million Ordinary Shares, including an over allotment option of 4.29 million Ordinary Shares (the public offering), at a price per share of $45.58, for net proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion. Insurance Industry Investigations and Related Matters Information on the insurance industry investigations and related matters is set forth in Note 7 e) of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Catastrophe Exposure Management We have exposure to catastrophic event risks from global insurance and reinsurance writings of property and workers compensation and, to a lesser extent, marine, aviation and energy. This potential loss accumulation, caused by either man made (for example, terrorism, aviation) or natural perils (for example, hurricane, earthquake) is addressed using several different approaches. First, we have established a series of Product Boards to ensure that geographic, product and client exposures are appropriate and meet both account level and portfolio limit guidelines adopted by the Boards. Second, we have a standardized modeling approach across ACE that utilizes a third party catastrophe simulation software package as the basis for preparing probabilistic estimates of ACEs potential catastrophic loss. Each unit with catastrophe exposure is required to model, price and manage its catastrophe risk using the output analytics from the software and this output also allows the aggregation of risk within and across business units. We continually examine the reasonableness of the modeling assumptions and their applicability to reflect the catastrophic loss potential of our various businesses. In addition, we maintain minimum data quality standards that must be met in order to quote and bind business. The aggregation of risk across units, products, perils and geography is performed across ACE on a quarterly basis to provide an overall assessment of risk and the results reviewed by senior management each quarter. Management maintains a prudent level of risk through a series of related accumulation thresholds that cap the net retention from single or multiple events; the probability of exhaustion of core catastrophe reinsurance programs, and the net catastrophe loss relative to tangible capital (shareholders equity less goodwill). Third, where the risk / return economics are effective, reinsurance is purchased from reinsurers of appropriate quality and security to protect the business unit level from accumulations arising either within product, peril or business unit or across a combination thereof such that the aggregate risk from a catastrophe loss is appropriate to the units capital structure. Despite the above controls there remains uncertainty about the characteristics, timing and extent of insured loss given the nature of catastrophes. Catastrophe Loss Charges During 2005, we incurred net catastrophe related pre tax charges of $1.3 billion, primarily associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. In 2004, we incurred net catastrophe related pre tax charges of $510 million primarily associated with hurricanes which struck the Caribbean and the U.S. On August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina, a Category 4 storm, struck the Gulf Coast of the United States. The hurricane and the subsequent flooding caused by the failure of the levee system in New Orleans produced significant losses. Due to the size and complexity of the storm and flooding, total covered losses for the insurance industry remain hard to predict, however, industry sources have estimated that the losses arising out of Hurricane Katrina will result in the largest insured loss in history. ACEs Hurricane Katrina losses were $598 million after tax, reinstatement premiums and premiums earned on multi year contracts. Hurricane Rita struck the Gulf Coast of the United States as a Category 3 hurricane on September 24, 2005. ACEs Hurricane Rita losses were $165 million after tax, reinstatement premiums and premiums earned on multi year contracts. Hurricane Wilma, a category 4 storm, initially struck Mexicos Yucatan Peninsula and then Florida in late October. ACEs Hurricane Wilma losses were $251 million after tax, reinstatement premiums and premiums earned on multi year contracts. Also included in 2005 are losses associated with Hurricanes Dennis and Ophelia, Typhoon Nabi and European floods, which totaled $35 million, after tax and reinstatement premiums. These amounts were based on ground up reviews of a substantial majority of our in force direct policies and internal modeling of our in force reinsurance policies we believe to be affected, together with information from our insureds and cedents which is still being received and evaluated. Actual losses may vary materially from these amounts as a result of, among other things, the receipt of additional information from insureds or brokers, the attribution of losses to coverages that, for the purpose of our calculations, we assumed would not be exposed and inflation in repair costs due to the limited availability of labor and materials. In addition, our Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita losses are subject to a high level of uncertainty due to extremely complex and unique causation and coverage issues 38 associated with the events, including the attribution of losses to wind or flood damage or other perils, potential legal and regulatory developments related to potential losses, as well as inflation in repair costs due to the limited availability of labor and materials due in part to the size and proximity in time and distance of the two hurricanes. We expect that these issues may become subject to litigation by state attorneys general and private parties and will not be resolved for a considerable period of time. As a result, although we believe our reserves for these events are adequate, both industry wide insured losses and our losses from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita may ultimately be materially greater or lower than our initial reported losses and any additional losses could have a further material adverse impact on our financial results. The following tables show the impact of catastrophe charges on each of our operating segments in 2005 and 2004. This information is based on currently available information derived from modeling techniques, industry assessments of exposure and claims information obtained from our clients and brokers. Actual losses from these events may vary materially from our estimates due to the inherent uncertainties in making such determinations resulting from several factors, including the potential inaccuracies and inadequacies in the data provided by clients and brokers, the modeling techniques and the application of such techniques, as well as the high frequency of recent catastrophic events and the effects of any resultant demand surge on claims activity. 2005 Catastrophe LossCharges By Event (in millions of U.S. dollars) Insurance NorthAmerican Insurance OverseasGeneral GlobalReinsurance ConsolidatedP&C FinancialServices Total Gross loss $ 2,954 Net loss First Quarter Storms $ $ $ 3 $ 3 $ $ 3 Hurricane Dennis 12 2 12 26 26 Hurricane Katrina 180 86 335 601 195 796 Hurricane Rita 55 50 89 194 15 209 Hurricane Wilma 70 63 152 285 30 315 Other (1) 10 10 10 Total $ 317 $ 201 $ 601 $ 1,119 $ 240 $ 1,359 Reinstatement premiums (earned) expensed (net) $ 76 $ 38 $ (46 ) $ 68 $ $ 68 Premiums earned on multi year contracts (net) (148 ) (148 ) Total impact before income tax $ 393 $ 239 $ 555 $ 1,187 $ 92 $ 1,279 Income tax benefit (128 ) (71 ) (31 ) (230 ) (230 ) Total impact after income tax $ 265 $ 168 $ 524 $ 957 $ 92 $ 1,049 Effective tax rate 33% 30% 6% 19% % 18% (1) Includes Hurricane Ophelia, Typhoon Nabi and European floods. 39 2004 Catastrophe LossCharges By Event (in millions of U.S. dollars) Insurance NorthAmerican Insurance OverseasGeneral GlobalReinsurance ConsolidatedP&C FinancialServices Total Gross loss $ 909 Net loss Hurricane Charley $ 31 $ $ 64 $ 95 $ $ 95 Hurricane Frances 22 6 65 93 5 98 Hurricane Ivan 40 20 71 131 5 136 Hurricane Jeanne 33 18 71 122 1 123 Typhoons 9 30 39 39 Other 8 8 8 Total $ 126 53 309 488 11 499 Reinstatement premiums (earned) expensed (net) $ 13 $ 13 $ (15 ) $ 11 $ $ 11 Total impact before income tax $ 139 66 294 499 $ 11 $ 510 Income tax benefit (41 ) $ (21 ) $ (11 ) $ (73 ) (73 ) Total impact after income tax $ 98 $ 45 $ 283 $ 426 $ 11 $ 437 Effective tax rate 29% 32% 4% 15% 14% Sale of Financial and Mortgage Guaranty Business through Assured Guaranty Ltd. On April 28, 2004, we sold 65.3 percent of our financial and mortgage guaranty reinsurance and insurance businesses through the initial public offering (IPO) of 49 million common shares of Assured Guaranty Ltd. (Assured Guaranty). Immediately, subsequent to the completion of the IPO, we beneficially owned 26 million common shares or 34.7 percent of Assured Guarantys outstanding common shares and, accordingly, no longer consolidate our interest in the Assured Guaranty companies. We account for our retained interest under the equity method and reflect the value of our investment in Investments in partially owned insurance companies within our consolidated balance sheet and the proportionate share of earnings reflected in Other (income) expense within our consolidated statement of operations. Critical Accounting Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements include amounts that, either by their nature or due to requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), are determined using best estimates and assumptions. While we believe that the amounts included in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect our best judgment, actual amounts could ultimately materially differ from those currently presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe the items that require the most subjective and complex estimates are: unpaid losses and loss expense reserves, including asbestos reserves; reinsurance recoverable, including our provision for uncollectible reinsurance; impairments to the carrying value of our investment portfolio; the valuation of deferred tax assets; the fair value of certain derivatives; the valuation of goodwill; and assessment of risk transfer for certain structured insurance and reinsurance contracts. We believe our accounting policies for these items are of critical importance to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion provides more information regarding the estimates and assumptions required to arrive at these amounts and should be read in conjunction with the sections entitled: Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities, Reinsurance, Investments, Net Realized Gains (Losses) and Other Income and Expense Items. 40 Unpaid losses and loss expenses As an insurance and reinsurance company, we are required, by applicable laws and regulations and U.S. GAAP, to establish loss and loss expense reserves for the estimated unpaid portion of the ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses under the terms of our policies and agreements with our insured and reinsured customers. The estimate of the unpaid liabilities includes provision for claims that have been reported but unpaid at the balance sheet date (case reserves) and for future obligations from claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR) at the balance sheet date. The loss reserve also includes an estimate of expenses associated with processing and settling these unpaid claims (loss expenses). At December 31 2005, our unpaid losses and loss expense reserve was $35 billion. With the exception of certain structured settlements, for which the timing and amount of future claim payments are reliably determinable, our loss reserves are not discounted for time value. In connection with such structured settlements, we carry reserves of $121 million. The process of establishing loss reserves for property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments based on circumstances known at the date of accrual. These estimates and judgments are based on numerous factors, and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methodologies are developed or as current laws change. Hence, ultimate loss payments will differ from the estimate of the ultimate liability made at the balance sheet date. Changes to our previous estimates of prior year loss reserves can impact the reported calendar year underwriting results by reducing our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be deficient or improving our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be redundant. The potential for variation in loss reserves is impacted by numerous factors, which we explain below. We establish loss and loss expense reserves for all of the insurance and reinsurance business that we write and have actuarial staff within each of our operating segments who analyze insurance reserves and regularly evaluate the levels of loss reserves, taking into consideration factors that may impact the ultimate value of the losses. When we establish loss reserves at each balance sheet date, we must make an estimate of IBNR for which there is limited information. As a result, historical experience and other statistical information are used to project the ultimate claims cost. To determine the reserves for a particular line of business, we may perform one or more reserving methods to estimate ultimate losses and loss expenses and select from these a single point estimate. These methods may include, but are not necessarily limited to, extrapolation of our reported and paid losses based on previous experience, application of industry loss development patterns to our reported or paid losses, or expected loss ratios developed by management based on prior company and industry experience. The underlying judgments and assumptions that may be incorporated into these actuarial projection models include, but are not necessarily limited to, adjustments of the historical data to exclude the potential distorting effect on the loss projections arising from catastrophe claims or other major claims with unusual features, the derivation and selection of factors used to project claims from known to ultimate cost using data with limited or volatile historical loss experience, adjustments to actuarial models and related data for known business changes, such as changes in coverage provided by insurance contracts or business mix, and the potential impact of recent or pending litigation on future claim settlements. Our reserves are established as managements best estimate of the provision for future unpaid claims. Each product line has an actuarial reserve review performed and a best estimate established at the reviews conclusion following the evaluation of one or more estimates developed during the review. The process to select the best estimate, when more than one estimate is available, may differ across lines of business. However, the objective of such a process is to determine a single best estimate that we believe represents a better estimate than any other. Such an estimate is viewed to support the most likely outcome of ultimate loss settlements and is determined based on several factors, including but not limited to, the segmentation of data to provide sufficient homogeneity and credibility for loss projection methods to apply, the extent of historical data and reliance on such data or industry data within the underlying reserve methodology, the historical variability of loss estimates compared with actual loss experience for the product line or comparable product lines, and nature and extent of underlying assumptions. Depending on the facts and circumstances of each product line, the determination of a single best estimate may be accomplished by selecting a single point estimate when one estimate is determined to reflect a better estimate than the other point estimates or using a probability weighted average approach when more than one estimate is viewed to be reasonable. For example, an actuary may select loss reserves developed using an incurred loss development approach instead of a paid loss development approach as the best estimate when reported losses are viewed to be a more credible indication of the ultimate loss compared with paid losses. The actuaries evaluation process to determine a best estimate involves collaboration with underwriting, claims, legal and finance departments and culminates with the input of reserve 41 committees. Each business unit reserve committee includes the participation of the relevant parties from actuarial, finance, claims and executive management and has the responsibility for finalizing and approving the point estimate to be used as our best estimate. Reserves are further reviewed by ACEs Chief Actuary and senior management. We do not calculate a range of loss reserve estimates for our individual loss reserve studies. Actuarial ranges are not a true reflection of the potential volatility between loss reserves estimated at the balance sheet date and the ultimate settlement of losses. This is due to the fact that an actuarial range is developed based on known events as of the valuation date whereas actual volatility or prior period development has historically been reported in subsequent Consolidated Financial Statements, in part from events and circumstances that were unknown as of the original valuation date. We do believe, however, that while our recorded reserves are reasonable and represent managements best estimate for each individual study, based on known events, our total recorded loss reserves at December 31, 2005, are unlikely to vary by more than ten percent of the recorded amounts, either positively or negatively, based on actual claims emergence over the last several years, excluding A&E development. Historically, including A&E reserve charges, our reserves have developed in excess of ten percent of recorded amounts. Refer to Analysis of Losses and Loss Expense Development, under Item 1 for a summary of historical volatility between estimated loss reserves and ultimate loss settlements. While we perform annual loss reserve studies for all product lines, the timing of such studies vary throughout the year. Additionally, for each product line, we review the emergence of actual losses relative to expectations used in reserving each quarter. If warranted from findings in loss emergence tests, we will accelerate the timing of our product line reserve studies. The following is a discussion of specific reserving considerations by type of claim: Short tail business, such as property coverages Short tail business describes lines of business for which losses are usually known and paid shortly after the loss actually occurs. This would include, for example, most property, personal accident, aviation hull and automobile physical damage policies that are written. Long tail business, such as casualty coverages Long tail business describes lines of business for which specific losses may not be known for some period and losses take much longer to emerge. This includes most casualty lines such as general liability, directors and officers liability (D&O) and workers compensation. There are many factors contributing to the uncertainty and volatility of long tail business. Among these are: Given the recent expansion of this business, our historical experience is often too immature to place reliance upon for reserving purposes. Instead, particularly for newer lines of business, reserve methods are based on industry loss ratios or development patterns that reflect the nature and coverage of the underwritten business and its future development. For new or growing lines of business, actual loss experience is apt to differ from industry loss statistics that are based on averages as well as loss experience of previous underwriting years; The inherent uncertainty of the length of paid and reporting development patterns; The possibility of future litigation, legislative or judicial change that might impact future loss experience relative to prior loss experience relied upon in loss reserve analyses; Loss reserve analyses typically require loss or other data be grouped by common characteristics in some manner. If data from two combined lines of business exhibit different characteristics, such as loss payment patterns, the credibility of the reserve estimate could be affected. Because casualty lines of business can have various intricacies in their underlying coverage, there is an inherent risk as to the homogeneity of the underlying data used in performing reserve analyses. The estimation of unpaid losses and loss expense reserves can also be affected by the layer at which a particular contract or set of contracts is written. In the case of direct insurance, where the insurer is taking on risk in the lower value end of the particular contract, the experience will tend to be more frequency driven. These lines of business allow for more traditional actuarial methods to be used in determining loss reserve levels, as it is customary to have more historical experience to rely upon. In the case of excess of loss contracts, the experience will tend to be more of a severity nature, as only a significant loss will enter the layer. For structured or unique contracts, most common to the financial solutions business and to a lesser extent our reinsurance business, traditional actuarial methods for setting loss reserves (such as loss development triangles), have to be tempered with an analysis of each contracts terms, 42 original pricing information, subsequent internal and external analyses of the ongoing contracts, market exposures and history, and qualitative input from claims managers. We continually evaluate our reserve estimates taking into account new information and discussion and negotiation with our insureds. We estimate the ultimate loss amounts by projecting losses as of the valuation date using loss development patterns derived from historical data. In addition, a tail factor is applied to the projected loss amount to reflect further potential development beyond the period of historical record. While we believe our reserve for unpaid losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2005 is adequate, new information or trends, such as judicial action broadening the scope of coverage or expanding liability, may lead to future developments in ultimate losses and loss expenses significantly greater or less than the reserve provided, which could have a material adverse effect on future operating results. Particularly significant variables for which a change in assumption could have a material effect on unpaid losses and loss expenses include, but are not limited to, the following: Insurance North American Given the long reporting and paid development pattern, the tail factors used to project actual current losses to ultimate losses for claims covered by our middle market workers compensation policies require considerable judgment that could be material to consolidated losses and loss expense reserves. Specifically, a one percent change in the tail factor could cause approximately a $51 million change, either positively or negatively, for the selected net loss and loss expense ultimate for that segment. We believe that our selected tail factors represent the most likely loss development based on historical loss payment patterns of this and other comparable long tail lines of business as well as the current legal and economic environment. The actual tail factor could vary by several percentage points from the tail factor selected. Because tail factors are stated in terms of decimals (e.g., 1.125) and often, the actuarys choice regarding reasonably supportable tail factors range within percentages of each other, the realistic change in tail factors can be expressed in percentage points. Our ACE Bermuda operations write predominantly high excess liability coverage on an occurrence first reported basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $300 million and limits of $100 million gross), and D&O and other professional liability coverage on a claims made basis (generally with gross limits of $50 million or less). Claims development for this business can vary significantly for individual claims and historically could vary by as much as $50 million per claim for professional liability and $100 million per claim for excess liability depending on the nature of the loss. Insurance Overseas General Certain international long tail lines, such as casualty and professional lines, are particularly susceptible to changes in loss trend and claim inflation. Heightened perceptions of tort and settlement awards around the world are increasing the demand for these products as well as contributing to the uncertainty of the reserving estimates. Our reserving methods rely heavily on loss development patterns estimated from historical data and while we attempt to adjust such factors for known changes in the current tort environment, it is possible that such factors may not entirely reflect all recent trends in tort environments. For example, the lengthening by six months of our selected loss development patterns used to project current losses to ultimate loss estimates could increase reserve estimates on long tail casualty and professional lines by approximately $200 million. Global Reinsurance Typically there is inherent uncertainty around the length of paid and reporting development patterns, especially for certain casualty lines such as excess workers compensation or general liability, which may take up to 30 years to fully develop. This uncertainty is accentuated by the need to supplement client development patterns with industry development patterns as justified by the credibility of the data. The underlying source and selection of the final development pattern can thus have a significant impact on the selected net loss and loss expense ultimate. For example, a ten percent slowing or quickening of the development pattern for US long tail lines could cause the ultimate loss derived by the reported Bornhuetter Ferguson method for these lines to change by as much as four percent, or $46 million. Asbestos and Environmental Reserves (A&E) Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are liabilities for asbestos and environmental claims and expenses (A&E). These claims are principally related to claims arising from remediation costs associated with hazardous 43 waste sites and bodily injury claims related to exposure to asbestos products and environmental hazards. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to the recent legal environment, including specific settlements that may be used as precedents to settle future claims. Our A&E reserves, and our range of estimates are not discounted and do not reflect any anticipated changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. Accordingly, our A&E reserves make no allowance for future state or federal asbestos reforms, such as those currently being contemplated. The majority of our reserve increase in the fourth quarter of 2004 arose with the strengthening of a core group of major accounts impacted by changes in the asbestos industry landscape. In particular, our estimates of future liability were impacted by the continued negative effect of bankruptcies and an increase in defense costs to litigate cases. There are many complex variables that we consider when estimating the reserves for our inventory of asbestos accounts and these variables may directly impact the predicted outcome. We believe the most significant variables relating to our A&E reserves include assumptions regarding multiple recoveries by claimants against various defendants; the ability of a claimant to bring a claim in a state in which they have no residency or exposure; the ability of a policyholder to claim the right to non products coverage; whether high level excess policies have the potential to be accessed given the policyholders claim trends and liability situation; payments to unimpaired claimants and the potential liability of peripheral defendants. Based on the policies, the facts, the law and a careful analysis of the impact that these risk factors will likely have on any given account, we estimate the potential liability for indemnity, policyholder defense costs and coverage litigation expense. The results in asbestos cases announced by other carriers may well have little or no relevance to us because coverage exposures are highly dependent upon the specific facts of individual coverage and resolution status of disputes among carrier, policyholder and claimants. Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information. Reinsurance recoverable Reinsurance recoverable includes the balances due to us from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses, and are presented net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is determined based upon a review of the financial condition of the reinsurers and other factors. We determine the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses using actuarial estimates as well as a determination of our ability to cede unpaid losses and loss expenses under existing reinsurance contracts. The recognition of a reinsurance recoverable asset requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves our estimation of the amount of gross reserves and the percentage of which shall be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR, which is a major component of the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, is generally developed as part of our loss reserving process and consequently, its estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross IBNR (see Critical Accounting Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses). The second judgment involves our estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that we may ultimately be unable to recover from reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable asset and, in turn, shareholders equity. Changes in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance are reflected in net income. At December 31, 2005, the net reinsurance recoverable balance was $15.5 billion and included $15.1 billion of reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, less a provision for uncollectible reinsurance of $451 million. The net unpaid recoverables consist of ceded IBNR of $8.7 billion and ceded case reserves of $5.9 billion. Also included are $1.2 billion of reinsurance recoverable on paid loss and loss adjustment expenses, less a provision for uncollectible reinsurance of $336 million. At December 31, 2005, $3.4 billion (22 percent) of our $15.5 billion of net reinsurance recoverable was either rated below A or not rated. We have approximately $1.0 billion of useable collateral against the $3.4 billion. Additionally, the $3.4 billion includes $520 million related to structured settlements, which are primarily annuities purchased from life insurance companies for the purpose of settling workers compensation claims. These are not subject to disputes. Although the contractual obligation of individual reinsurers to pay their reinsurance obligations is based on specific contract provisions, the collectibility of such amounts requires significant estimation by management. The majority of the balance we have accrued as recoverable will not be due for collection until sometime in the future (in some cases several decades from now). Over this period of time, economic conditions and operational performance of a particular reinsurer may impact their ability to meet these obligations and while they may continue to acknowledge their contractual obligation to do so, they may not have the financial resources or willingness to fully meet their obligation to us. 44 To estimate the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, the reinsurance recoverable must first be determined for each reinsurer. This determination is based on a process rather than an estimate, although an element of judgment must be applied. As part of this process, ceded IBNR is allocated by reinsurance agreement, and then by reinsurer, because ceded IBNR is not generally calculated on an agreement by agreement basis. The allocations are generally based on premiums ceded under reinsurance agreements, as adjusted for actual loss experience and historical relationships between gross and ceded losses. If actual experience varies materially from historical experience, including that used to determine ceded premium, the allocation of reinsurance recoverable by reinsurer will change. While such change is unlikely to result in a large percentage change in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, it could, nevertheless, have a material effect on our net income in the period recorded. Generally, we use a default analysis to estimate uncollectible reinsurance. The primary components of the default analysis are reinsurance recoverable balances by reinsurer, net of collateral, and default factors used to estimate the probability that the reinsurer may be unable to meet its future obligations in full. The definition of collateral for this purpose requires some judgment and is generally limited to assets held in an ACE only beneficiary trust, letters of credit, and liabilities held by us with the same legal entity for which we believe there is a right of offset. We do not currently include multi beneficiary trusts. However we have several reinsurers that have established multi beneficiary trusts for which certain ACE companies are beneficiaries. The determination of the default factor is principally based on the financial strength rating of the reinsurer and a default factor applicable to the financial strength rating. Default factors require considerable judgment and are determined using the current financial strength rating, or rating equivalent, of each reinsurer as well as other key considerations and assumptions. The more significant considerations and assumptions include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: For reinsurers that maintain a financial strength rating from a major ratings agency, and for which recoverable balances are considered representative of the larger population (i.e., default probabilities are consistent with similarly rated reinsurers and payment durations conform to averages), the judgment exercised by management to determine the provision for uncollectible reinsurance of each reinsurer is typically limited because the financial rating is based on a published source and the default factor we apply is based on a default factor of a major ratings agency applicable to the particular rating class. Default factors applied for financial ratings of AAA, AA, A, BBB, BB, B, CCC, are 0.5 percent, 1.2 percent, 1.9 percent, 4.7 percent, 9.6 percent, 23.8 percent, and 49.7 percent, respectively. Because the model we use is predicated on the default factors of a major ratings agency, we do not generally consider alternative factors. However, when a recoverable is expected to be paid in a brief period of time by a highly rated reinsurer, such as certain property catastrophe claims, a default factor may not be applied. For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are both unrated by a major rating agency and for which management is unable to determine a credible rating equivalent based on a parent, affiliate or peer company, we determine a rating equivalent based on an analysis of the reinsurer that considers an assessment of the creditworthiness of the particular entity, industry benchmarks, or other factors as considered appropriate. We then apply the applicable default factor for that rating class. For balances recoverable from unrated reinsurers for which our ceded reserve is below a certain threshold, we generally apply a default factor of 25 percent. For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are either insolvent or under regulatory supervision, we establish a default factor and resulting provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on specific facts and circumstances surrounding each company. Upon initial notification of an insolvency, we generally recognize expense for a substantial portion of all balances outstanding, net of collateral, through a combination of write offs of recoverable balances and increases to the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. When regulatory action is taken on a reinsurer, we generally recognize a default factor by estimating an expected recovery on all balances outstanding, net of collateral. When sufficient information becomes available from managers of the reinsurer, we adjust the provision for uncollectible reinsurance by establishing a default factor pursuant to information received. For other recoverables management determines the provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on the specific facts and circumstances of that dispute. 45 The following table summarizes reinsurance recoverables and the provision for uncollectible reinsurance for each type of recoverable balance at December 31, 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) TotalReinsuranceRecoverables Recoverables(Net of UsableCollateral) Provision forUncollectibleReinsurance Type Reinsurers with credit ratings $ 12,333 $ 11,569 $ 248 Reinsurers not rated 1,045 909 225 Reinsurers under supervision and insolvent reinsurers 494 470 294 Other structured settlements, pools and Captives 2,378 1,546 20 Total $ 16,250 $ 14,494 $ 787 At December 31, 2005, the use of different assumptions within the model could have a material effect on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent the creditworthiness of our reinsurers were to deteriorate due to an adverse event affecting the reinsurance industry, such as a large number of major catastrophes, actual uncollectible amounts could be significantly greater than our provision for uncollectible reinsurance. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and our liquidity. Given the various considerations used to estimate our uncollectible provision, we cannot precisely quantify the effect a specific industry event may have on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. However, based on the composition (particularly the average credit quality) of the reinsurance recoverable balance at December 31, 2005, we estimate that a ratings downgrade of one notch for all rated reinsurers (e.g. from A to A or A to BBB+) could increase our provision for uncollectible reinsurance by approximately $200 million, assuming no other changes relevant to the calculation. While a rating downgrade would result in an increase in our provision for uncollectible reinsurance and a charge to earnings in that period, a downgrade in and of itself does not imply that we will not ultimately collect all of the ceded reinsurance recoverable from the reinsurers in question. Refer to Reinsurance for more information. Investments Our fixed maturity investments are classified as either available for sale or held to maturity. Our available for sale portfolio is reported at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in shareholders equity as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Fair value is determined using the quoted market price of these securities provided by either independent pricing services, or when such prices are not available, by reference to broker or underwriter bid indications. We regularly review our impaired investments (i.e., those debt securities in which fair value is below amortized cost or those equity securities in which fair value is below cost) for a possible other than temporary impairment. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record the decline as an unrealized loss in our shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the book value of the investment and record a realized loss in our consolidated statement of operations. An impairment is considered other than temporary unless we have the ability and intent to hold the investment to recovery of fair value up to the cost of the investment, and evidence indicating the cost of the investment is recoverable within a reasonable period outweighs evidence to the contrary. The determination as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary principally requires the following critical judgments: i) the circumstances that require management to make a specific assessment as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary, such as the time period an investment has been in a loss position and the significance of the decline; and ii) for those securities to be assessed, whether we have the ability and intent to hold the security through an expected recovery period, absent a significant change in facts that is expected to have a material adverse effect on either the financial markets or the financial position of the issuer. With respect to securities where the decline in value is determined to be temporary and the securitys value is not written down, a subsequent decision may be made to sell that security and realize a loss. Subsequent decisions on security sales could be made based on changes in liquidity needs (i.e., arising from a large insured loss such as a catastrophe), internal risk management considerations, the financial condition of the issuer or its industry, market conditions, and new investment opportunities. Day to day management of the majority of our investment portfolio is 46 outsourced to third party investment managers. While these investment managers may, at a given point in time, believe that the preferred course of action is to hold securities with unrealized losses until such losses are recovered, the dynamic nature of portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell the security and realize the loss based upon new circumstances such as those related to the changes described above. We believe that subsequent decisions to sell such securities are consistent with the classification of the majority of our portfolio as available for sale. The gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2005, for all securities in a loss position was $239 million. Because our investment portfolio is the largest component of consolidated assets and a multiple of shareholders equity, adverse changes in economic conditions subsequent to the balance sheet date could result in other than temporary impairments that are material to our financial condition and operating results. Such economic changes could arise from overall changes in the financial markets, specific changes to industries, companies, or foreign governments in which we maintain relatively large investment holdings. Further, an increase in interest rates could result in an increased number of fixed maturities for which we cannot support the intent to hold to recovery. More information regarding our process for reviewing our portfolio for possible impairments can be found in the section entitled Net Realized Gains (Losses). Deferred tax assets Many of our insurance businesses operate in income tax paying jurisdictions. We provide for income taxes in accordance with the provisions of FAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities primarily result from temporary differences between the amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities separately for each tax paying component (an individual entity or group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes) in each tax jurisdiction. At December 31, 2005, our net deferred tax asset was $1.3 billion. (See Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). At each balance sheet date, management assesses the need to establish a valuation allowance that reduces deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that all, or some portion, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance is based on all available information including projections of future taxable income from each tax paying component in each tax jurisdiction, principally derived from business plans and available tax planning strategies. Projections of future taxable income incorporate several assumptions of future business and operations that are apt to differ from actual experience. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates that resulted in our forecast of future taxable income for each tax paying component proves to be incorrect, an additional valuation allowance could become necessary. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. At December 31, 2005, the valuation allowance of $87 million (including $29 million with respect to foreign tax credits) reflects managements assessment that it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized due to the inability of certain foreign subsidiaries to generate sufficient taxable income or the inability to utilize foreign tax credits. Derivatives FAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (FAS 133) establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. FAS 133 requires that all derivatives be recognized as either assets or liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and be measured at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in our net income. Our principal participation in derivative instruments is as follows: i) To sell protection to customers as either the writer of a derivative financial instrument or an insurance or reinsurance contract that meets the definition of a derivative under FAS 133. For 2005 and 2004, the reinsurance of guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIBs) in our life reinsurance operation was our primary product falling into this category. We believe that the most meaningful presentation of these derivatives is to reflect cash inflows or revenue as net premiums earned, and to record estimates of future cash outflows as incurred losses. When we determine that a future cash payment is probable, we establish reserves for the loss. Other components of fair value are reflected in other assets or other liabilities in the balance sheet and related changes in fair value reflected in net realized gains (losses) in the income statement. We generally hold these derivative contracts to maturity. Where we hold a derivative to maturity, the cumulative unrealized gains and losses will net to zero if we incur no losses on that contract. Refer to Note 6(c) to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of this product and related accounting treatment; and 47 ii) To mitigate our own financial risks, principally arising from our investment holdings, products sold, or assets and liabilities held in foreign currencies. For these instruments, changes in assets or liabilities measured at fair value are recorded as net realized gains or losses in the consolidated income statement. Derivative instruments used for this purpose include interest rate futures, equity futures based on the Standard & Poors (S&P) Index, options, interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts primarily to manage duration and foreign currency exposure, enhance our portfolio yield or obtain an exposure to a particular financial market. In addition, as part of our investing activities, we purchase to be announced mortgage backed securities (TBAs), which are derivatives. Open derivatives as of the balance sheet date are reported at fair value based on market quotes or valuations provided to us by third party investment managers using market data. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, we did not designate any such derivatives as accounting hedges. The fair value of derivative instruments depends on a number of factors including changes in interest rates, changes in equity markets, changes in credit markets and for GMIB reinsurance, changes in the allocation of investments underlying annuitant account value. Where available, we use quoted market prices to determine the fair value of these instruments. If the quoted prices are not available, the fair value is estimated using valuation models for each type of instrument. Internal valuation models include the use of management estimates and current market information. These models may be developed by third parties or internally based on market conventions for similar transactions, depending on the circumstances. These models and related assumptions are continuously reevaluated by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon improvements in modeling techniques and availability of more timely market information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the assumptions used in the valuation models to determine the fair value of these derivative products, actual experience may differ from the estimates reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements, and the differences may be material. Refer to Item 7A for a more detailed discussion of the sensitivity of our GMIB products to market factors. Fair value adjustments attributed to all our derivative transactions are included in our net realized gains (losses). With respect to derivatives sold, we recorded a net realized gain of $29 million and a net realized loss of $13 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2005 and 2004, the net realized gains included $18 million and $10 million for GMIB reinsurance, respectively. In 2004, the change in fair value was related to many factors, including a loss of approximately $25 million related to the reversal of unrealized gains upon the termination of several credit default swaps and the sale of Assured Guaranty. In 2003, we held a few other, relatively illiquid, index based derivative instruments that were reported at fair value. In early 2004, these contracts were terminated at a gain in conjunction with the sale of Assured Guaranty. Refer to Net Realized Gains (Losses) for more information. Goodwill Goodwill, which represents the excess of the cost of our acquisitions over the tangible net assets we acquired, was $2.7 billion at December 31, 2005. The ACE INA acquisition comprises approximately 80 percent of this balance. FAS 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, primarily addresses accounting for goodwill and intangible assets subsequent to their acquisition. Pursuant to FAS 142, goodwill is not amortized to income but instead, is subject to a periodic evaluation of impairment. It is our policy to test goodwill as well as other intangible assets for other than temporary impairments on an annual basis. Goodwill is assigned to applicable reporting units of acquired entities based on goodwill recognized at acquisition. Impairment tests are performed annually for each acquired entity giving rise to goodwill. The most significant reporting units are the domestic and international divisions of ACE INA, which were acquired in 1999; ACE Tempest Res catastrophe businesses acquired in 1996 and 1998; and Tarquin Limited acquired in 1998. There are other reporting units that resulted from smaller acquisitions that are also assessed annually. The transitional impairment test of goodwill determined that there was no impairment in goodwill in 2002. In our impairment tests, we principally use both an earnings model, that includes relevant financial data of comparable companies to the reporting unit being tested, such as the relationship of price to book value for recent transactions and market valuations of publicly traded companies, and an estimation of fair value based on present value of estimated net cash flows. We must assess whether the current fair value of our operating units is at least equal to the fair value used in the determination of goodwill. In doing this, we make assumptions and estimates about the profitability attributable to our operating segments, as this is important in assessing whether an impairment has occurred. As part of our ongoing management assessments, we regularly analyze our operating companies in an effort to maximize future cash flows and profitability. During 2005, we completed the sale of a wholly owned service company which, at 48 the time of the sale, was carrying goodwill of $4 million on their financial statements. In addition, goodwill increased by $7 million due to the acquisition of the remaining 49 percent minority interest in a company which is now owned 100 percent by ACE. In 2004, we recorded a goodwill impairment of $13 million primarily as a result of a review conducted during the first quarter which led to a write down of goodwill relating to our Lloyds life syndicate. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates made in assessing the fair value of acquired entities prove to be incorrect, goodwill carried on our balance sheet could be materially overstated. This would cause us to write down the carrying value of goodwill, resulting in a charge to earnings in the period recorded. Accordingly, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period the charge is taken. In 2002, we purchased approximately 22 percent of a Chinese insurance company, Huatai Insurance Company (Huatai). We account for our ownership interest in Huatai under the equity method of accounting. At December 31, 2005, our carrying value for this investment is approximately $149 million, which includes goodwill of approximately $97 million. Based on Huatais current business plan and the current state of the Chinese insurance market, we have determined that our investment in Huatai, inclusive of goodwill, is not impaired at December 31, 2005. Risk transfer In the ordinary course of business, we both purchase, or cede, and sell, or assume, P&C reinsurance protection. For both ceded and assumed reinsurance, risk transfer requirements as per FAS No. 113, Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short Duration and Long Duration Contracts (FAS 113), must be met in order to obtain reinsurance accounting, principally resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract as premium and losses. If risk transfer requirements are not met, a contract is to be accounted for as a deposit, typically resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. We also apply similar risk transfer requirements to determine whether certain commercial insurance contracts should be accounted for as insurance or a deposit. Contracts that include fixed premium (i.e., premium not subject to adjustment based on loss experience under the contract) for fixed coverage generally transfer risk and do not require judgment. Reinsurance and insurance contracts that include both significant risk sharing provisions, such as adjustments to premiums or loss coverage based on loss experience, and relatively low policy limits as evidenced by a high proportion of maximum premium assessments to loss limits, can require considerable judgment to determine whether or not risk transfer requirements are met. For such contracts, often referred to as finite or structured products, we require that risk transfer be specifically assessed for each contract by developing expected cash flow analyses at contract inception. To support risk transfer, the cash flow analyses must support the fact that a significant loss is reasonably possible, such as a scenario in which the ratio of the net present value of losses divided by the net present value of premiums equals or exceeds 110 percent. For purposes of cash flow analyses, we generally use a risk free rate of return consistent with the expected average duration of loss payments. In addition, to support insurance risk, we must prove the reinsurers risk of loss varies with that of the reinsured and or support various scenarios under which the assuming entity can recognize a significant loss. To ensure risk transfer requirements are routinely assessed, quantitative risk transfer analyses and memoranda supporting risk transfer are developed by underwriters for all structured products. Furthermore, throughout 2004, such assessments were reviewed and approved by Corporate Accounting. Beginning in December 2004, we formed a Structured Transaction Review Committee that has the responsibility of both reviewing risk transfer assessments and other relevant accounting matters for our structured products. With respect to ceded reinsurance, we entered into a few multi year excess of loss retrospectively rated contracts, principally in 2002, which provided coverage during 2004 and 2003. These contracts principally provide severity protection for specific product divisions. Because traditional one year reinsurance coverage had become relatively costly, these contracts were generally entered into to secure a more cost effective reinsurance program. All of these contracts transferred risk and have been accounted for as reinsurance. In addition, we maintain a few aggregate excess of loss reinsurance contracts that were principally entered into prior to 2003, such as the National Indemnity Company (NICO) contracts referred to in the section entitled, Asbestos and Environmental Liabilities. In 2002, we commenced a policy to discontinue the purchase of all finite reinsurance contracts, at both the corporate and product division level. Subsequent to the ACE INA acquisition, we have not purchased any retroactive ceded reinsurance contracts. With respect to assumed reinsurance and insurance contracts, products giving rise to judgments regarding risk transfer are primarily sold by our financial solutions businesses, included in our Financial Services segment. Such 49 products principally include multi year retrospectively rated contracts and loss portfolio transfers. Because transfer of insurance risk is generally a primary client motivation for purchasing these products, relatively few P&C insurance and reinsurance contracts have historically been written for which we concluded that risk transfer criteria had not been met. For certain insurance contracts that have been reported as deposits, the insured desired to self insure a risk but was required, legally or otherwise, to purchase insurance so that claimants would be protected by a licensed insurance company in the event of non payment from the insured. A significant portion of ACE Tempest Re USAs business is written through quota share treaties (approximately $502 million of net premiums earned in 2005, comprised of $324 million of first dollar quota share treaties and $178 million of excess quota share treaties), some of which are categorized as structured products (approximately $98 million of net premiums earned in 2005). Structured quota share treaties typically contain relatively low aggregate policy limits, a feature that reduces loss coverage in some manner, and a profit sharing provision. Accounting standard setters for both GAAP and statutory reporting are currently contemplating risk transfer matters as well as accounting models that could ultimately require the bifurcation of structured quota share, and perhaps other quota share contracts not currently categorized as structured, into a reinsurance and financing component. New guidance in this area has the potential to have a significant impact on the amount of premiums and losses recognized under these contracts. Results of Operations Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 The discussions that follow include tables, which show both our consolidated and segment operating results for the three years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. In presenting our segment operating results, we have discussed our performance with reference to underwriting results, which is a non GAAP measure. We consider this measure, which may be defined differently by other companies, to be important in understanding our overall results of operations. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other (income) expense, interest expense, income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. Underwriting results should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Consolidated Operating Results (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Net premiums written $ 11,792 $ 11,496 $ 10,268 Net premiums earned 11,748 11,110 9,727 Net investment income 1,264 1,013 900 Net realized gains 76 197 265 Total revenues $ 13,088 $ 12,320 $ 10,892 Losses and loss expenses 8,571 7,690 6,167 Life and annuity benefits 143 175 182 Policy acquisition costs 1,670 1,565 1,350 Administrative expenses 1,261 1,265 1,189 Interest expense 174 183 177 Other (income) expense (32 ) 3 34 Total expenses $ 11,787 $ 10,881 $ 9,099 Income before income tax 1,301 1,439 1,793 Income tax expense 273 286 311 Net income $ 1,028 $ 1,153 $ 1,482 Net premiums written, which reflect the premiums we retain after purchasing reinsurance protection, increased three percent in 2005, compared with 2004. Our P&C business (which excludes our Life and Financial Services businesses) increased two percent. The increase was primarily driven by strong production in the U.S. casualty operations of the 50 Insurance North American segment, partially offset by a decline in net premiums written at ACE Global Markets. Net premiums written increased 12 percent in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to growth in P&C business due to broader market presence and growth in personal accident business. ACE conducts business internationally and in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the approximate effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of P&C net premiums written and earned for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. 2005 2004 Net premiums written: Growth in original currency 1% 18% Foreign exchange effect 1% 3% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 2% 21% Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency 6% 21% Foreign exchange effect 1% 2% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 7% 23% The following table provides a consolidated breakdown of net premiums earned by line of business for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 % of total 2004 % of total 2003 % of total Property and all other $ 3,250 28% $ 3,425 31% $ 3,030 31% Casualty 6,563 56% 5,806 52% 4,503 46% Personal accident (A&H) 1,242 10% 1,133 10% 920 10% Total P&C 11,055 94% 10,364 93% 8,453 87% Financial Services 445 4% 520 5% 1,087 11% Life Insurance and Reinsurance 248 2% 226 2% 187 2% Net premiums earned $ 11,748 100% $ 11,110 100% $ 9,727 100% Net premiums earned reflect the portion of net premiums written that were recorded as revenues for the period as the exposure period expires. Driven primarily by growth in production of U.S. casualty business over the last several years, net premiums earned in our P&C business increased seven percent in 2005, compared with 2004. Our Financial Services business reported a decrease in net premiums earned of 14 percent in 2005, compared with 2004, which included $104 million of net premiums earned from Assured Guaranty (prior to the IPO). The decrease in Financial Services net premiums earned was partially offset by premiums earned on multi year contracts in connection with catastrophe losses. Consistent with the trend in net premiums written, the overall increase in net premiums earned was 14 percent in 2004, compared with 2003. Net investment income increased 25 percent in 2005, compared with 2004, and 12 percent in 2004 compared with 2003. These increases in net investment income are primarily due to positive operating cash flows and proceeds from the public offering, which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. The sale of Assured Guaranty during 2004 had the effect of reducing the average invested asset base for Financial Services, which resulted in lower net investment income for that segment. In evaluating our P&C and Financial Services businesses we use the combined ratio, the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio. We calculate these ratios by dividing the respective expense amounts by net premiums earned. We do not calculate these ratios for the life business as we do not use these measures to monitor or manage that business. The combined ratio is determined by adding the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio. A combined ratio under 100 percent indicates underwriting income, and a combined ratio exceeding 100 percent indicates underwriting losses. 51 The following table shows our consolidated loss and loss expense ratio, policy acquisition ratio, administrative expense ratio and combined ratio for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. 2005 2004 2003 Loss and loss expense ratio 74.5% 70.7% 64.6% Policy acquisition cost ratio 14.3% 14.2% 14.0% Administrative expense ratio 10.8% 11.5% 12.4% Combined ratio 99.6% 96.4% 91.0% Our loss and loss expense ratio increased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to increased catastrophe losses and net adverse prior period development. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses, A&E reserve strengthening and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. 2005 2004 2003 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 74.5% 70.7% 64.6% Catastrophe losses 11.4% 4.7% 1.2% A&E reserve strengthening 4.3% Adverse prior period development 0.7% 0.8% 1.7% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 62.4% 60.9% 61.7% We recorded $1.4 billion in net catastrophe losses in 2005, compared with $499 million in 2004, and $112 million in 2003. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we recorded a net increase in A&E and other run off reserves of $465 million comprising A&E reserve increases of $554 million (including a provision for uncollectible reinsurance of $95 million) and favorable prior period development of $89 million in other run off reserves. Prior period development arises from changes to loss estimates recognized in the current year that relate to loss reserves first reported in previous calendar years and excludes the effect of losses from the development of earned premium from previous accident years. For purposes of analysis and disclosure, management views prior period development to be changes in the nominal value of loss estimates from period to period and excludes changes in loss estimates that do not arise from the emergence of claims, such as those related to uncollectible reinsurance, interest, or foreign currency. Accordingly, specific items excluded from prior period development include the following: gains/losses related to foreign currency translation that affect both the valuation of unpaid losses and loss expenses and losses incurred; losses recognized from the early termination or commutation of reinsurance agreements that principally relate to the time value of money; changes in the value of reinsurance business assumed reflected in losses incurred but principally related to the time value of money and losses that arise from changes in estimates of earned premiums from prior accident years. We experienced $86 million of net adverse prior period development in 2005, compared with $82 million (excluding A&E reserve strengthening) and $174 million in 2004, and 2003, respectively. The remaining increase in the loss and loss expense ratio for 2005 was primarily the result of changes in business mix in our Global Reinsurance and Insurance North American segments. Global Reinsurance has been growing its non catastrophe P&C lines while Insurance North American has been increasing its participation in casualty lines. Refer to Segment Operating Results for more information. Our policy acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes, underwriting and other costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of premium. Administrative expenses include all other operating costs. Our policy acquisition costs ratio has increased over the last three years primarily due to changes in business mix. Our administrative expense ratio has declined over the last three years, primarily due to the increase in net premiums earned. Additionally, for 2005, administrative expenses were reduced by the release of an accrual in Insurance North American and higher net profits from ACE USAs ESIS (claims services) operation, which we include in administrative expenses. Interest expense decreased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to the $75 million of Capital Re LLC preferred securities which were outstanding in 2004, and redeemed on July 12, 2004. Additionally, in 2004 we issued $500 million of 5.875 percent notes and repaid $400 million ACE INA 8.2 percent notes. 52 Our effective tax rate on net income, which we calculate as income tax expense divided by income before income tax, was 21 percent in 2005 compared with 20 percent in 2004 and 17 percent in 2003. The increase in the last two years, compared with 2003, was primarily a result of incurring a substantial portion of the catastrophe charges in lower tax jurisdictions, causing our income to decline without a commensurate decrease in income tax expense. The effective tax rate on 2005 catastrophe losses was 18 percent, compared with 14 percent in 2004. The effective tax rate for 2005 was approximately 5 percentage points lower due to the favorable impact of the American Jobs Creation Act, which resulted in an income tax benefit of $69 million. Refer to American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 for more information. In 2004, we incurred approximately $13 million in income tax expense related to U.S. federal income taxes from the transfer of our U.S. financial and mortgage guaranty operations to Assured Guaranty and attributed to the sale of our Assured Guaranty shares. The A&E reserve strengthening resulted in tax benefits of $163 million in 2004, which partially reduced our overall effective tax rate on net income. Our effective tax rate is dependent upon the mix of earnings from different jurisdictions with various tax rates; a change in the geographic mix of earnings would change the effective tax rate. Segment Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 Our business consists of five segments: Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, Global Reinsurance, Financial Services and Life Insurance and Reinsurance. For more information on each of our segments, including products and distribution, refer to the section entitled, Segment Information, under item 1. Insurance North American (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Net premiums written $ 5,450 $ 5,101 $ 4,050 Net premiums earned 5,285 4,679 3,689 Losses and loss expenses 4,118 3,898 2,541 Policy acquisition costs 492 447 380 Administrative expenses 409 451 402 Underwriting income (loss) $ 266 $ (117 ) $ 366 Net investment income 565 469 415 Net realized gains (losses) (6 ) 126 53 Interest expense 21 21 21 Other expense 14 5 14 Income tax expense 208 82 194 Net income $ 582 $ 370 $ 605 Loss and loss expense ratio 77.9% 83.3% 68.9% Policy acquisition cost ratio 9.3% 9.6% 10.3% Administrative expense ratio 7.7% 9.6% 10.9% Combined ratio 94.9% 102.5% 90.1% Net premiums written for the Insurance North American segment increased seven percent in 2005 compared with 2004. This increase was primarily driven by ACE USAs risk management, medical liability and workers compensation businesses and ACE Westchester Specialtys casualty lines. These gains were partially offset by lower net premiums written for property business, due in large part to higher reinstatement premiums in connection with catastrophe losses. ACE Bermuda experienced weak market conditions for professional lines business in 2005, compared with 2004. Insurance North Americans net premiums written increased 26 percent in 2004, compared with 2003. This increase was related to robust demand for casualty business combined with higher retention of gross premiums written in 2004, compared with 2003. 53 The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance North Americans net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 % of total 2004 % of total 2003 % of total Property and all other $ 1,249 24% $ 1,280 27% $ 1,102 29% Casualty 3,854 73% 3,225 69% 2,446 67% Personal accident (A&H) 182 3% 174 4% 141 4% Net premiums earned $ 5,285 100% $ 4,679 100% $ 3,689 100% (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 ACE USA $ 3,501 $ 3,011 $ 2,216 ACE Westchester Specialty 1,385 1,242 1,061 ACE Bermuda 399 426 412 Net premiums earned $ 5,285 $ 4,679 $ 3,689 ACE USAs net premiums earned increased 16 percent in 2005, compared with 2004. ACE Risk Management reported strong demand for its custom coverage solutions for large companies and construction projects while relatively new casualty units offering workers compensation and medical liability coverage also contributed to ACE USAs growth in 2005, compared with 2004. These gains were partially offset by higher reinstatement premiums in connection with catastrophe losses in 2005. ACE USAs net premiums written increased 36 percent in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to growth experienced in the casualty lines in 2003 and early 2004. ACE Westchester Specialtys net premiums earned increased 12 percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to growth in casualty business (particularly in 2004 and 2005), partially offset by higher reinstatement premiums in connection with catastrophe losses. ACE Westchester Specialty reported an increase in net premiums earned of 17 percent in 2004, compared with 2003. This increase primarily reflected higher casualty writings as well as increased agriculture coverage, reflecting growth in new business. ACE Bermudas net premiums earned decreased six percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to a decline in professional lines production. Strong competition in the professional lines market has led to rate reductions and in some cases under priced business, which ACE Bermuda has declined. Unfavorable market conditions for excess property business and reinstatement premiums also contributed to the decline in net premiums earned, partially offset by increased excess liability production in 2005, compared with 2004. ACE Bermuda reported a three percent increase in net premiums earned in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to growth in excess liability and professional lines. Insurance North Americans loss and loss expense ratio decreased in 2005, compared with 2004. This decrease was primarily due to an A&E reserve strengthening in 2004, partially offset by higher catastrophe losses in 2005. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses, A&E reserve strengthening and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. 2005 2004 2003 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 77.9% 83.3% 68.9% Catastrophe losses 7.1% 2.9% 0.5% A&E reserve strengthening 9.8% Adverse prior period development 2.4% 4.2% 2.5% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 68.4% 66.4% 65.9% Insurance North Americans net catastrophe losses for 2005 were $317 million compared with $126 million in 2004 and $20 million in 2003. The 2004 loss and loss expense ratio was negatively impacted by the A&E and other run off reserve strengthening, which resulted in a before tax charge of $459 million, including the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, for Insurance North American. The net additions comprised A&E reserve increases of $548 million 54 including the provision for uncollectible reinsurance of $95 million and favorable prior period development of $89 million in other run off reserves. We experienced $125 million of net adverse prior period development in 2005, representing 1.4 percent of the segments unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at January 1, 2005. This compares with 2004 net adverse prior period development of $195 million (excluding A&E), representing 2.9 percent of the segments unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at January 1, 2004. The 2005 prior period development was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, the most significant of which were: Adverse development of $171 million on certain sub portfolios of long tail business, written principally during accident years 1998 2002 in our U.S. operations. In particular; Run off program business including aggregate excess workers compensation exposure, general liability and automobile liability ($59 million in accident years 1999 2002); Excess general liability business written on a portfolio of large corporate accounts ($38 million across accident years 1998 2001); Professional liability business, mainly related to a run off nursing care program ($21 million for accident years 1999 2002); Pool participations covering workers compensation business assumed on both a voluntary and involuntary basis. ($35 million in accident years 2004 and prior). The development followed completion of reserve studies that reflected higher than anticipated actual loss experience compared with the expectation from the previous reserving basis. In the case of the excess general liability and professional liability business, the development arose following the completion of a detailed claims review that identified the need for significant case reserve changes on a number of accounts. Adverse development of $99 million in the ACE Bermuda professional lines book on accident years 2002 and prior following a claims and legal review of information received on several previously notified claims. Adverse development of $84 million mostly on the 2001 and 2002 accident years relating to changes in the legal and claim positions on a small number of financial guarantee contracts. Favorable development of $107 million on lines with short tail exposures (property, inland marine, and workers compensation catastrophe) resulting from our standard quarterly reserving process. Favorable development arose from the better than expected emergence of actual claims relative to expectations used to establish reserves. A majority of the favorable development arose from accident year 2004. Favorable development of $70 million in the ACE Bermuda excess liability book on accident years 2002 and prior due to a number of successful claim settlements during the year. Favorable development of $47 million on specialty business including agriculture, aviation, satellites and political risk due to lower than anticipated loss emergence during the year, mainly related to more recent accident years, primarily the 2004 accident year. The 2004 net adverse prior period development of $195 million was mainly driven by development on long tail lines for accident years 2002 and prior, most notably $163 million on U.S. run off workers compensation business and $98 million on the ACE Bermuda professional lines business. Partially offsetting this adverse development was $181 million of favorable prior period development on lines with short tail exposures principally related to accident year 2003. Net adverse development of $103 million was incurred in 2003, primarily from long tail lines. The remaining increase in the loss and loss expense ratio in the three years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, was principally the result of casualty lines comprising a higher proportion of net premiums earned. Due to their longer claim pay out duration, casualty lines exhibit a higher loss and loss expense ratio relative to other types of business. Insurance North Americans policy acquisition cost ratio decreased in 2005, compared with 2004, as higher acquisition costs on ACE Westchester Specialtys crop business was offset by lower direct and contingent commissions at ACE USA and lower commission costs on ACE Bermudas core lines of business. Administrative expenses decreased in 2005, compared with 2004. Although administrative expenses continue to increase as a result of higher costs to support business growth and recently established casualty units, in 2005 these costs were offset by the release of $42 million in accruals and an increase of $4 million in net revenues reported from ACE USAs ESIS operation. Administrative expenses increased in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to increased staffing costs (primarily underwriting and support unit personnel) and technology spending, related to servicing the growth in Insurance 55 North Americans product lines. The increase in net premiums earned over the last three years has had the effect of decreasing this segments administrative expense ratio. Insurance Overseas General (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Net premiums written $ 4,195 $ 4,335 $ 3,773 Net premiums earned 4,239 4,296 3,659 Losses and loss expenses 2,583 2,423 2,182 Policy acquisition costs 836 800 681 Administrative expenses 566 544 487 Underwriting income $ 254 $ 529 $ 309 Net investment income 319 224 166 Net realized gains (losses) 51 47 (6 ) Other expense 16 25 15 Income tax expense 107 232 99 Net income $ 501 $ 543 $ 355 Loss and loss expense ratio 60.9% 56.4% 59.6% Policy acquisition cost ratio 19.7% 18.6% 18.6% Administrative expense ratio 13.4% 12.7% 13.3% Combined ratio 94.0% 87.7% 91.5% Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written decreased three percent in 2005, compared with 2004. This decrease was primarily due to a decline in production combined with higher reinstatement premiums at ACE Global Markets, partially offset by gains on conversion of the U.S. dollar against the British pound sterling and the Euro (see table below for impact of foreign exchange on net premiums written and earned). ACE International reported stable net premiums written in 2005, compared with 2004. Net premiums written increased 15 percent in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar and growth in business across most of ACE Internationals operations. The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 % of total 2004 % of total 2003 % of total Property and all other $ 1,299 31% $ 1,442 34% $ 1,221 33% Casualty 1,880 44% 1,895 44% 1,659 46% Personal accident (A&H) 1,060 25% 959 22% 779 21% Net premiums earned $ 4,239 100% $ 4,296 100% $ 3,659 100% (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 ACE Europe $ 1,865 $ 1,934 $ 1,466 ACE Asia Pacific 545 485 387 ACE Far East 378 382 367 ACE Latin America 416 355 297 ACE International 3,204 3,156 2,517 ACE Global Markets 1,035 1,140 1,142 Net premiums earned $ 4,239 $ 4,296 $ 3,659 Insurance Overseas General reported a one percent decrease in net premiums earned in 2005, compared with 2004. Increases at ACE Asia Pacific and ACE Latin America were offset by weak market conditions at ACE Europe and ACE 56 Global Markets. Higher reinstatement premiums and reinsurance costs, also led to lower net premiums earned for 2005. Net premiums earned increased 17 percent in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily driven by strong growth at ACE Europe and also due to appreciation in the U.S. dollar. ACE Internationals net premiums earned increased two percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to the relative position of the U.S. dollar, as strong A&H growth was more than offset by lower P&C writings. ACE Europes 2005 decline in production was primarily driven by weak U.K. market conditions for P&C business, and to a lesser extent A&H. Competitive pricing in the U.K. resulted in lower rates, deterioration in terms and reduced levels of new business. ACE Asia Pacific and ACE Latin America reported solid growth in net premiums earned in 2005, driven by robust demand for A&H products. ACE Asia Pacific experienced success in using innovative distribution channels to meet customer demand. ACE Global Markets net premiums earned decreased nine percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to reinstatement premiums and a decline in production across most of ACE Global Markets portfolio of products, particularly property and professional lines. Insurance Overseas General conducts business internationally and in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the approximate effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of net premiums written and earned for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. 2005 2004 Net premiums written: Growth in original currency (6)% 8% Foreign exchange effect 3% 7% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars (3)% 15% Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency (3)% 13% Foreign exchange effect 2% 4% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars (1)% 17% Insurance Overseas Generals loss and loss expense ratio increased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to higher catastrophe losses. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses, and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. 2005 2004 2003 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 60.9% 56.4% 59.6% Catastrophe losses 5.2% 1.4% 0.3% Adverse (favorable) prior period development 0.1% (0.5)% 1.5% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 55.6% 55.5% 57.8% Net catastrophe losses for 2005 were $201 million, compared with $53 million and $10 million for 2004 and 2003, respectively. We experienced $5 million of net adverse development in 2005, representing 0.1 percent of the segments unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at January 1, 2005. This compares with 2004 net favorable prior period development of $17 million (includes $6 million adverse development relating to A&E), representing 0.4 percent of the segments unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at January 1, 2004. The 2005 prior period development was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, the most significant of which were: Favorable development of $94 million on short tail property and fire lines. These reserve changes were made as part of our regular quarterly reserving process and arose from better than expected emergence of actual claims relative to expectations. This movement mainly related to accident years 2003 and 2004. Adverse development of $41 million on ACEs share of a consortium reinsuring U.S. workers compensation business during the late 1990s. The adverse development arose following the completion of a financial and actuarial review of information received from the client. Adverse development of $62 million on professional lines business due to case reserve increases on a number of large claims. This adverse development was mainly related to accident years 2001 through 2003. 57 The 2004 net favorable prior period development was driven by favorable development on certain short tail lines of $103 million being offset by moderate adverse movements on a number of sub portfolios including aviation, casualty, political risk and A&H business. Net adverse prior period development of $55 million for 2003 was driven by $54 million of adverse prior period development on specialty lines, including marine and satellite and also $38 million on casualty lines related to the lengthening of development patterns. This adverse prior period development was partially offset by $47 million of favorable movements on short tail property and fire lines. Insurance Overseas Generals policy acquisition ratio increased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to changes in business mix (increase in A&H, which typically attracts higher commission rates than other business), increased commissions on certain P&C lines in ACE Europe and the impact of reinstatement premiums paid. This segments policy acquisition ratio was stable in 2004, compared with 2003. Insurance Overseas Generals administrative expense ratio increased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to the depreciation of the U.S. dollar, increased costs to support business opportunities and to a lesser extent the decline in net premiums earned. These increases were partially offset by improvements at ACE Global Markets due to a decline in Lloyds costs as a result of our reduced capacity through Syndicate 2488 and lower Lloyds levies. This segments administrative expense ratio improved in 2004, compared with 2003, due to increased net premiums earned coupled with the reduction in Lloyds costs. Global Reinsurance (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Net premiums written $ 1,546 $ 1,518 $ 1,229 Net premiums earned 1,531 1,389 1,105 Losses and loss expenses 1,402 973 560 Policy acquisition costs 307 271 211 Administrative expenses 60 65 62 Underwriting income (loss) $ (238 ) $ 80 $ 272 Net investment income 173 126 87 Net realized gains (losses) (4 ) 27 54 Interest expense 3 Other (income) expense 4 (1 ) (3 ) Income tax expense 11 14 14 Net income (loss) $ (87 ) $ 220 $ 402 Loss and loss expense ratio 91.6% 70.1% 50.6% Policy acquisition cost ratio 20.1% 19.5% 19.1% Administrative expense ratio 3.9% 4.6% 5.6% Combined ratio 115.6% 94.2% 75.3% Global Reinsurances net premiums written increased two percent in 2005, compared with 2004. Inward reinstatement premiums were mostly offset by weak market conditions for property and property catastrophe business (primarily in the first half of 2005), and lower casualty rates in Europe. This segments net premiums written increased 24 percent in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to higher non catastrophe P&C production at ACE Tempest Re USA and ACE Tempest Re Europe, partially offset by a decrease in property catastrophe business at ACE Tempest Re Bermuda. The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Global Reinsurances net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 % of total 2004 % of total 2003 % of total Property and all other $ 354 23% $ 374 27% $ 311 28% Casualty 829 54% 686 49% 399 36% Property catastrophe 348 23% 329 24% 395 36% Net premiums earned $ 1,531 100% $ 1,389 100% $ 1,105 100% 58 (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 ACE Tempest Re Europe $ 295 $ 303 $ 259 ACE Tempest Re USA 887 751 468 ACE Tempest Re Bermuda 349 335 378 Net premiums earned $ 1,531 $ 1,389 $ 1,105 Global Reinsurances net premiums earned increased 10 percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to higher inward reinstatement premiums and casualty earnings on business written in prior periods. Non catastrophe P&C business has represented a growing proportion of Global Reinsurances net premiums written over the last several years, and in general, has experienced more favorable market conditions over this time period compared with catastrophe lines. Net premiums earned increased 26 percent in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to the growing proportion of non catastrophe P&C business. ACE Tempest Re Europe reported a three percent decrease in net premiums earned in 2005, compared with 2004. Marine and energy reinstatement premiums were more than offset by unfavorable market conditions for casualty business. ACE Tempest Re Europe reported a 17 percent increase in net premiums earned in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily on the strength of casualty business written in 2003 and early 2004, offset by weakness in property catastrophe and aviation lines. ACE Tempest Re USAs net premiums earned increased 18 percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to casualty earnings on business written in prior periods, inward reinstatement premiums and new property policies written in 2005. ACE Tempest Re USA reported a 60 percent increase in net premiums earned in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to increased casualty business written and higher renewal rates. ACE Tempest Re Bermuda reported a four percent increase in net premiums earned in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to higher inward reinstatement premiums and improved market conditions for property catastrophe business in the second half of the year. ACE Tempest Re Bermuda reported an 11 percent decrease in net premiums earned in 2004, compared with 2003 as a market wide decline in rates on property catastrophe business, combined with our underwriting discipline resulted in downward pressure on premium production. The loss and loss expense ratio increased in 2005 compared with 2004, primarily due to increased catastrophe losses. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. 2005 2004 2003 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 91.6% 70.1% 50.6% Catastrophe losses 37.7% 22.2% 7.4% Favorable prior period development (1.4)% (4.4)% (2.5)% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 55.3% 52.3% 45.7% Global Reinsurance recorded $601 million in net catastrophe losses in 2005, primarily related to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. This segments net catastrophe losses for 2004 and 2003 were $309 million and $82 million, respectively. We experienced $22 million of net favorable prior period development in 2005, representing 1.4 percent of the segments unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at January 1, 2005. This compares with 2004 net favorable prior period development of $61 million, representing 6.6 percent of the segments unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at January 1, 2004. The 2005 favorable prior period development related primarily to property and other short tail lines and resulted from a difference between the actual and expected claims emergence used to establish reserves for the 2003 and 2004 accident years. Net favorable prior period development of $27 million was experienced in 2003. The favorable prior period development experienced in both 2004 and 2003 was primarily due to better than expected claims experience on property and other short tail lines. The remaining increase in the loss and loss expense ratio for 2005, compared with 2004, and for 2004 compared with 2003, was primarily related to the shift in mix of business that resulted from growth in non catastrophe P&C business at ACE Tempest Re USA and ACE Tempest Re Europe. Non catastrophe P&C business typically exhibits higher loss ratios than property catastrophe business (except in periods with high catastrophe losses). 59 Global Reinsurances policy acquisition cost ratio increased as a result of changes in business mix, partially offset by increased inward reinstatement premiums which do not incur acquisitions costs. This segments policy acquisition ratio increased in 2004, compared with 2003, due to changes in business mix. The administrative expense ratio decreased in 2005 and 2004, primarily due to increased net premiums earned. Financial Services The Financial Services segment consists of our financial solutions business and our proportionate share of Assured Guarantys earnings, which was 100 percent through April 28, 2004, and approximately 35 percent thereafter. Certain products (principally credit protection oriented) issued by the Financial Services segment have been determined to meet the definition of a derivative under FAS 133. Refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Derivatives for more information. From April 29, 2004, our proportionate share of Assured Guarantys earnings is reflected in Other (income) expense in our consolidated statement of operations. The equity in net income recorded from Assured Guaranty in 2005 and 2004, was $68 million and $45 million, respectively. Additionally, in 2005, we recorded our share of a loss recovery resulting from Assured Guarantys settlement of a long standing litigation matter. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Net premiums written $ 353 $ 316 $ 1,028 Net premiums earned 445 520 1,087 Losses and loss expenses 459 388 884 Policy acquisition costs 11 23 61 Administrative expenses 18 39 84 Underwriting income (loss) $ (43 ) $ 70 $ 58 Net investment income 133 147 201 Net realized gains (losses) 22 (17 ) 191 Interest expense 5 6 Other (income) expense (65 ) (25 ) (1 ) Income tax expense 16 35 64 Net income $ 161 $ 185 $ 381 Loss and loss expense ratio 103.0% 74.6% 81.3% Policy acquisition cost ratio 2.6% 4.3% 5.6% Administrative expense ratio 4.0% 7.5% 7.8% Combined ratio 109.6% 86.4% 94.7% Financial Services reported a 12 percent increase in net premiums written in 2005, compared with 2004. The increase related primarily to premiums on retrospectively rated multi year contracts in connection with catastrophe losses. Net premiums written and earned were increased by $148 million in connection with multi year contracts consistent with the accounting guidance under EITF 93 6. EITF 93 6 requires that companies writing multi year contracts recognize an asset to the extent that the ceding company has an obligation to pay cash to the reinsurer that would not have been required absent experience under the contract. To the extent premiums are owed irrespective of future coverage under the contract, the related premium is earned. Net premiums earned decreased 14 percent in 2005, compared with 2004, which included $104 million of net premiums earned from Assured Guaranty, prior to the IPO. Excluding the premiums written on multi year contracts, Financial Services reported a decline in production in 2005, compared with 2004, which reflects the decrease in underwriting opportunities in some lines of business. Premium volume in the financial solutions business can vary significantly from period to period and therefore premiums written in any one period are not indicative of premiums to be written in future periods. This segment reported a decrease in net premiums written and earned of 69 percent and 52 percent, respectively, in 2004, compared with 2003. The decline was primarily a result of the sale of Assured Guaranty and decline in loss portfolio transfers production. Financial Services reported an underwriting loss in 2005, primarily due to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, which contributed $92 million to this segments underwriting loss. Partially offsetting the underwriting loss was a loss recovery in connection with the long standing litigation matter (in addition to our share of Assured Guarantys 60 recovery, discussed above), which added $16 million to this segments underwriting income in 2005. In connection with products accounted for using the deposit method of accounting, we recorded $9 million and $10 million of non refundable fees in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Financial Services segment reported an increase in underwriting income of 21 percent in 2004, compared with 2003. The increase was mainly driven by a lower loss and loss expense ratio in our financial guaranty operations prior to the IPO of Assured Guaranty. We experienced $22 million of net favorable prior period development in 2005, representing 1.0 percent of the segments unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at January 1, 2005. This compares with 2004 net favorable prior period development of $29 million, representing 1.0 percent of the segments unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at January 1, 2004. The 2005 favorable prior period development principally relates to $29 million of favorable development related to a financial guarantee reinsurance contract that provides default coverage for a diversified portfolio of securities. During 2005, the portfolio subject to coverage was substantially reduced and actual losses, representing the shortfall between cash paid to settle securities and stated principal and interest amounts, were lower than corresponding loss reserves held for those securities. This favorable development was slightly reduced by moderate reserve increases on a few contracts that aggregate to $7 million. The favorable prior period development in 2004 was primarily due to lower than expected loss emergence on multi year excess of loss contracts. The adverse prior period development in 2003 of $43 million arose principally on the structured finance lines of business due to credit deterioration in assumed collateralized debt obligations. Life Insurance and Reinsurance We assess the performance of our life insurance and reinsurance business based on life underwriting income which includes net investment income. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Net premiums written $ 248 $ 226 $ 188 Net premiums earned 248 226 187 Life and annuity benefits 143 175 182 Policy acquisition costs 24 24 17 Administrative expenses 19 11 6 Net investment income 36 33 33 Life underwriting income 98 49 15 Net realized gains (losses) 19 7 (21 ) Income tax expense (benefit) (2 ) (2 ) (1 ) Net income (loss) $ 119 $ 58 $ (5 ) Life underwriting income increased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to the decrease in life and annuity benefits. In 2005, life and annuity benefits declined primarily due to the decrease in group long term disability business (discontinued in 2002), which typically incurs higher benefit ratios than other types of business and also experienced a reserve strengthening in 2004. Additionally, favorable underlying account experience reduced the expected value of future benefit payments under variable annuity contracts. Net premiums earned benefited from continued growth in variable annuity business, offset by the continued decrease in production of long term disability business. Net realized gains increased in 2005, compared with 2004, and consisted primarily of fair value adjustments on guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIBs), which occur due to changes in the level and volatility of interest rates and equity markets. The fair value gain of $18 million on GMIBs in 2005, includes changes in some assumptions used to calculate the fair value of the GMIB liability primarily related to expectations of future policyholder lapse and mortality rates in various economic scenarios. The impact of the changes in assumptions was a $108 million decrease in the fair value of the GMIB liability recorded during the second quarter of 2005. These changes in assumptions were prompted by emerging experience and are in line with industry standards; such changes may occur periodically. On September 30, 2005, we entered into a derivative transaction, which has the effect of reducing our net exposure to equity and interest rate market movements. The derivative has an expiration date of September 30, 2015 and an associated premium payment of $31 million. Refer to Item 7A for more information. 61 Life underwriting income improved in 2004, compared with 2003, primarily due to the increase in net premiums earned, combined with lower life and annuity benefits. Net premiums earned increased in 2004 primarily due to higher variable annuity production, while life and annuity benefits declined due to the increased proportion of premium volume from variable annuity products, which typically have lower expected benefit pay outs than other business. Net Investment Income Years Ended December 31 (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Insurance North American $ 565 $ 469 $ 415 Insurance Overseas General 319 224 166 Global Reinsurance 173 126 87 Financial Services 133 147 201 Life Insurance and Reinsurance 36 33 33 Corporate and Other 38 14 (2 ) Net investment income $ 1,264 $ 1,013 $ 900 Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors, including the amounts and timing of inward and outward cash flows, the level of interest rates and changes in overall asset allocation. Net investment income increased 25 percent in 2005, compared with 2004, and 13 percent in 2004, compared with 2003. The increase in net investment income is primarily due to several years of positive operating cash flows which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. Additionally, for the current year our invested asset base was increased by the proceeds from our public offering in October 2005. Partially offsetting the growth trend in net investment income was the sale of Assured Guaranty in 2004, which reduced the average invested asset base for Financial Services and resulted in a decline in net investment income for that segment over the last two years. The investment portfolios average market yield on fixed maturities was 5.0 percent at December 31, 2005, compared with 4.1 percent and 4.0 percent at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The following table shows the return on average invested assets for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Average invested assets $ 29,118 $ 24,129 $ 19,372 Net investment income 1,264 1,013 900 Return on average invested assets 4.3% 4.2% 4.7% Net Realized Gains (Losses) Our investment strategy takes a long term view, and our investment portfolio is actively managed to maximize total return within certain specific guidelines, designed to minimize risk. The majority of our investment portfolio is available for sale and reported at fair value. During the first quarter of 2005, we transferred securities that we have the ability and intent to hold to maturity or redemption from the available for sale classification to the held to maturity classification. The transfer was made at the fair value at the date of transfer (refer to Investments for more information). Our held to maturity investment portfolio is reported at amortized cost. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when other than temporary impairments are recorded on invested assets. Additionally, net income is impacted through the reporting of changes in the fair value of derivatives, including financial futures, options, swaps, GMIB reinsurance, and credit default swaps. Changes in unrealized appreciation and depreciation on available for sale securities, which result from the revaluation of securities held, are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. 62 The following table presents our pre tax net realized gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Fixed maturities and short term investments $ (45 ) $ 113 $ 100 Equity securities 76 84 (41 ) Other investments 4 (21 ) (25 ) Currency 1 21 Derivatives: Financial futures, options, swaps 12 33 34 Fair value adjustment on insurance derivatives 29 (13 ) 176 Subtotal derivatives 41 20 210 Total net realized gains (losses) $ 76 $ 197 $ 265 Subject to investment guidelines approved by our Finance and Investment Committee of the Board of Directors (relating to asset classes, credit quality, and liquidity), our investment managers generally have the ability to sell securities from our available for sale investment portfolio when they determine that an alternative security with comparable risks is likely to provide a higher investment return, considering the realized gain or loss on sale and differential in future investment income. Often, sales of individual securities occur when investment managers conclude there are changes in the credit quality of a particular security or, for other reasons, market value is apt to deteriorate. Further, we may sell securities when we conclude it is prudent to reduce a concentration in a particular issuer or industry. Therefore, sales volume may increase in a volatile credit market in which credit spreads and thus the market value of fixed maturity investments are subject to significant changes in a short period of time. The interest rate environment will tend to have a limited effect on sales volume but extreme conditions could have an effect on the magnitude of realized gains or losses. For example, in a declining rate environment, the market value of securities increase, resulting in a greater likelihood of net realized gains and we would therefore tend to reduce the average duration of our fixed maturity investment portfolio. An increasing rate environment would tend to have the opposite effect. The effect of a high level of realized losses or gains for a particular period will tend to be offset by increases or decreases in investment income, respectively, in subsequent periods. From a liquidity perspective, our greatest risk is that we could be forced to sell a large volume of securities at a loss (i.e., in a high interest rate environment) to meet operating needs and are thus unable to reinvest proceeds to recoup such losses with future investment income (refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information). FAS 133 requires us to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet and measure them at fair value. We record the gains and losses resulting from the fair value measurement of derivatives in net realized gains (losses). We participate in derivative instruments in two principal ways as follows: i) to offer protection to others as the seller or writer of the derivative, such as our GMIB reinsurance contracts that are treated as derivatives for accounting purposes; and ii) to mitigate our own risk, principally arising from investment holdings. We do not consider either type of transaction to be speculative. In 2005, we recorded net realized gains of $41 million on derivative transactions. This compares with net realized gains of $20 million and $210 million, in 2004 and 2003, respectively. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates and equity indices on the fair value of derivatives and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. With respect to our GMIB reinsurance and credit derivatives, we record a portion of the change in fair value in future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts and unpaid loss and loss expenses, respectively, representing our best estimate of loss pay outs related to fees or premiums earned, and a portion in net realized gains (losses), representing other changes in fair value. The fair value adjustments related to GMIB reinsurance and credit derivatives included in net realized gains (losses) in 2005 was net realized gains of $29 million. The fair value adjustments related to GMIB reinsurance and credit derivatives included in net realized gains (losses) in 2004 and 2003 were net realized losses of $13 million and net realized gains of $176 million, respectively. The change in fair values related to GMIB reinsurance was realized gains of $18 million in 2005, compared with $10 million in 2004. The gain or loss created by the estimated fair value adjustment will rise or fall each period based on estimated market pricing and may not be an indication of ultimate claims. Fair value is defined as the amount at which an asset or liability could be bought or sold 63 in a current transaction between willing parties. We generally plan to hold derivative financial instruments to maturity. Where we hold derivative financial instruments to maturity, these fair value adjustments would generally be expected to reverse resulting in no gain or loss over the entire term of the contract. However, in the event that we terminate a derivative contract prior to maturity, as a result of a decision to exit a line of business or for risk management purposes, the difference between the final settlement of cash inflows and outflows and financial statement accruals for premiums and losses will be reflected as premiums earned and losses incurred, respectively. Additionally, at termination, any unrealized gain or loss, previously classified as a realized gain or loss, will be reversed and classified as a realized loss or gain, respectively. The changes in the fair value of GMIBs are determined using internal valuation models. Such valuations require considerable judgment and are subject to significant uncertainty. The valuation of these products is subject to fluctuations arising from, among other factors, changes in interest rates, changes in the equity markets, and changes in the allocation of the investments underlying annuitants account value. These models and the related assumptions are continually reviewed by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon improvements in modeling techniques and availability of more timely information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. Refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Derivatives for more information. The net realized gain of $12 million on financial futures, options, and swaps in 2005, was primarily driven by gains on derivative transactions structured to manage our investment portfolios credit and interest rate risks. In 2004 and 2003, we experienced net realized gains of $33 million and $34 million, respectively, related to financial futures, options, spread lock swaps and interest rate swaps. We use foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the effect of fluctuating foreign currencies on certain non U.S. dollar holdings in our portfolio that are not specifically matching foreign currency liabilities. These contracts are not designated as specific hedges and we record all realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts as net realized gains (losses) in the period in which the currency values change. We regularly review our investment portfolio for possible impairment based on criteria including economic conditions, credit loss experience and issuer specific developments. If there is a decline in a securitys net realizable value, we must determine whether that decline is temporary or other than temporary. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record it as an unrealized loss in our shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the book value of the investment and record a net realized loss in our statement of operations. The decision to recognize a decline in the value of a security carried at fair value as other than temporary rather than temporary has no impact on our book value. Once a security is identified as having a potential other than temporary impairment, we determine whether or not cost will ultimately be recovered and whether we have the intent and ability to hold the security until an expected recovery period, absent a significant change in facts that is expected to have a material adverse financial effect on the issuer. The process of determining whether a decline in value is temporary or other than temporary requires considerable judgment and differs depending on whether or not the security is traded on a public market as well as by type of security. We review all of our fixed maturities and equity securities for potential impairment each quarter. See Note 3 g) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for criteria we consider in assessing potential impairment. Note 3 g) also includes a table which summarizes all of our securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2005. Our net realized gains in 2005, included write downs of $88 million, as a result of conditions which caused us to conclude that the decline in fair value was other than temporary. This compares with write downs of $39 million and $121 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. A breakdown of write downs by security type is included in Note 3 h) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Income and Expense Items Years Ended December 31 (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Equity in net income of partially owned companies $ (60 ) $ (41 ) $ (6 ) Minority interest expense 16 22 18 Other 12 9 16 Goodwill impairment 13 6 Other (income) expense $ (32 ) $ 3 $ 34 64 Other income in 2005, primarily comprises our equity in net income of Assured Guaranty (included in equity in net income of partially owned companies), and minority interest expense due to profitability associated with our consolidated joint ventures. Other expense in 2004 included $8 million in compensation expense in connection with the settlement of ACE stock awards held by employees of Assured Guaranty. Additionally, in 2004, we recognized $13 million of goodwill impairments, following a review of our goodwill balance during the first quarter of 2004. In 2005, we did not recognize goodwill impairment but we reported a net increase in our goodwill balance of $3 million, primarily due to our purchase of the remaining interest of a previously partially owned subsidiary. The other expense for 2003 related to charges for commutation of a reinsurance contract. Investments Our principal investment objective is to ensure that funds are available to meet our insurance and reinsurance obligations. Within this broad liquidity constraint, the purpose of our investment portfolios structure is to maximize total return subject to specifically approved guidelines of overall asset classes, credit quality, liquidity and volatility of expected returns. Our investment portfolio is invested primarily in fixed income securities with an average credit quality of AA, as rated by the independent investment rating service S&P. The portfolio is externally managed by independent, professional investment managers. The average duration of our fixed income securities, including the effect of options and swaps, declined to 2.9 years at December 31, 2005, compared with 3.4 years at December 31, 2004. We estimate that a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would reduce our book value by approximately $824 million. Our other investments principally comprise direct investments, investment funds and limited partnerships. Given the significant growth in our investment portfolio over the last several years, as well as our continued efforts to manage the diversification of the portfolio on an enterprise wide basis, we have implemented a strategy to hold to maturity certain fixed maturity securities that are considered essential holdings in a diversified portfolio of our size. Because we have the intent to hold such securities to maturity, they have been reclassified from available for sale to held to maturity in our consolidated balance sheet. A transfer of such securities with a carrying value (fair value) of $3.2 billion was made during the quarter ended March 31, 2005. The unrealized appreciation (depreciation) at the date of the transfer continues to be reported in a separate component of stockholders equity and is being amortized over the remaining life of the security as an adjustment of yield in a manner consistent with the amortization of any premium or discount. The unrealized appreciation on the date of transfer was $16 million (this balance was $10 million at December 31, 2005). Our debt securities include fixed maturity securities, which are classified as either held to maturity or available for sale. Securities classified as held to maturity are securities that we have the ability and intent to hold to maturity or redemption and are carried at amortized cost. All other debt securities and our equity securities are classified as available for sale and are carried at fair value. The net unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on securities available for sale, plus the unamortized unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on debt securities transferred to the held to maturity portfolio, less related deferred income taxes, are included in accumulated other comprehensive income. The following table shows the fair value and cost/amortized cost of our invested assets at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Fair Value Cost/Amortized Cost Fair Value Cost/Amortized Cost Fixed maturities available for sale $ 24,285 $ 24,273 $ 22,891 $ 22,422 Fixed maturities held to maturity 3,055 3,076 Short term investments 2,299 2,299 2,163 2,163 29,639 29,648 25,054 24,585 Equity securities 1,507 1,280 1,265 1,061 Other investments 755 672 606 544 Total investments $ 31,901 $ 31,600 $ 26,925 $ 26,190 We also gain exposure to equity markets through the use of derivative instruments. Our exposure through equity derivatives was nil and $131 million at December 31, 2005, and 2004, respectively. The fair value of our total investments increased $5 billion during the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily due to investment of positive cash 65 flows from operations and the proceeds from our public offering, partially offset by unrealized depreciation of $386 million, mainly on fixed maturities, due to an overall increase in U.S. interest rates during the period. The following tables show the market value of our fixed maturities and short term investments at December 31, 2005 and 2004. The first table lists investments according to type and the second according to S&P credit rating. December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Market Value Percentage ofTotal Market Value Percentage ofTotal Treasury $ 1,956 6% $ 1,551 7% Agency 1,506 5% 1,547 7% Corporate 7,646 26% 7,614 30% Mortgage backed securities 8,363 28% 5,034 20% Asset backed securities 1,981 7% 1,225 5% Municipal 504 2% 566 2% Non US 5,384 18% 5,376 21% Cash and cash equivalents 2,299 8% 2,141 8% Total $ 29,639 100% $ 25,054 100% December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Market Value Percentage ofTotal Market Value Percentage ofTotal AAA $ 18,985 64% $ 13,890 55% AA 2,108 7% 2,634 11% A 4,350 15% 4,397 18% BBB 2,083 7% 2,275 9% BB 945 3% 774 3% B 1,106 4% 1,041 4% Other 62 43 Total $ 29,639 100% $ 25,054 100% In accordance with our investment process, we invest in below investment grade securities through dedicated investment portfolios managed by external investments managers that have investment professionals specifically dedicated to this asset class. At December 31, 2005, our fixed income investment portfolio included below investment grade and non rated securities which, in total, comprised approximately seven percent of our fixed income portfolio. We define a security as being below investment grade if it has an S&P credit rating of BB or less. Our below investment grade and non rated portfolio includes approximately 800 issues, with the top 15 holdings making up approximately 11 percent of the $2.2 billion balance at December 31, 2005. The highest single exposure in this portfolio of securities is $23 million. Below investment grade securities have different characteristics than investment grade corporate debt securities. Risk of loss from default by the borrower is greater with below investment grade securities. Below investment grade securities are generally unsecured and are often subordinated to other creditors of the issuer. Also, issuers of below investment grade securities usually have higher levels of debt and are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions such as recession or increasing interest rates, than are investment grade issuers. We reduce the overall risk in the below investment grade portfolio, as in all investments, through careful credit analysis, strict investment policy guidelines, and diversification by issuer and or guarantor as well as by industry. Restricted Assets We are required to maintain assets on deposit with various regulatory authorities to support our insurance and reinsurance operations. These requirements are generally promulgated in the statutory regulations of the individual jurisdictions. The assets on deposit are available to settle insurance and reinsurance liabilities. We also utilize trust funds in certain large transactions where the trust funds are set up for the benefit of the ceding companies and generally take the place of Letter of Credit (LOC) requirements. We also have investments in segregated portfolios primarily 66 to provide collateral or guarantees for LOCs and debt instruments. (See Notes 7 and 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements) The following table identifies the value of restricted assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 Deposits with U.S. regulatory authorities $ 921 $ 857 Deposits with non U.S. regulatory authorities 2,065 1,866 Assets used for collateral or guarantees 910 894 Trust funds 2,255 1,950 $ 6,151 $ 5,567 Deposits with non U.S. regulatory authorities increased eleven percent in 2005, compared with 2004, due to higher asset balances in support of our Lloyds Syndicate 2488. All syndicate assets are restricted under Lloyds Trust Deeds. Additionally, with respect to one reinsurance contract, premiums had been deposited in a trust, invested in fixed maturities, for which an ACE affiliate in Bermuda provided an interest rate guarantee. Based on these guarantees, ACE concluded that it had the majority of the risks and rewards of ownership for the trust. ACE has consolidated these trust assets of approximately $171 million effective January 1, 2004, the date we adopted FIN 46 (R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. At December 31, 2005, the amount consolidated in connection with these trust assets was $163 million. Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses We establish reserves for the estimated unpaid ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses under the terms of our policies and agreements. These reserves take into account estimates both for claims that have been reported and for IBNR, and include estimates of expenses associated with processing and settling claims. The table below presents a roll forward of our unpaid losses and loss expenses for the year ended December 31, 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Losses ReinsuranceRecoverable Net Losses Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 31,483 $ 13,966 $ 17,517 Losses and loss expenses incurred 13,319 4,748 8,571 Losses and loss expenses paid (8,745 ) (3,376 ) (5,369 ) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) (1,002 ) (741 ) (261 ) Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 35,055 $ 14,597 $ 20,458 The process of establishing reserves for claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments. Our estimates and judgments may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed; as new or improved methodologies are developed; or as current laws change. Catastrophe losses significantly impacted our total reserves 2005 included gross and net catastrophe losses of $3.0 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. The following table shows our total reserves segregated between case reserves and IBNR reserves. December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Case reserves $ 15,422 $ 5,889 $ 9,533 $ 14,797 $ 6,003 $ 8,794 IBNR 19,633 8,708 10,925 16,686 7,963 8,723 Total $ 35,055 $ 14,597 $ 20,458 $ 31,483 $ 13,966 $ 17,517 67 The following table segregates the reserves by components including casualty, property, personal accident and other at December 31, 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Casualty Case reserves $ 2,961 $ 952 $ 2,009 Expenses 157 23 134 IBNR 3,120 1,701 1,419 Subtotal 6,238 2,676 3,562 Property Case reserves 9,581 3,697 5,884 Expenses 2,368 1,152 1,216 IBNR 16,054 6,814 9,240 Subtotal 28,003 11,663 16,340 Personal accident Case reserves 335 65 270 Expenses 20 20 IBNR 459 193 266 Subtotal 814 258 556 Total Case reserves 12,877 4,714 8,163 Expenses 2,545 1,175 1,370 IBNR 19,633 8,708 10,925 Total $ 35,055 $ 14,597 $ 20,458 Assumed Reinsurance At December 31, 2005, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.4 billion, consisting of $790 million of case reserves and $1.6 billion of IBNR. For 2005, increases in Global Reinsurances net unpaid losses and loss expenses were partially offset by claim payments made in connection with third quarter 2004 storms. Prior to 2000, our reinsurance operations had been concentrated in the property catastrophe reinsurance market. For catastrophe business, we principally estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses on an event basis by considering various sources of information including specific loss estimates reported by our cedants, ceding company and overall industry loss estimates reported by our brokers, and our internal data regarding reinsured exposures related to the geographical location of the event. The latter internal analysis enables us to establish catastrophe reserves for known events with more certainty at an earlier date than would be the case if we solely relied on reports from third parties to determine carried reserves. In 2000, we began writing casualty lines of reinsurance in the United States, and to a lesser extent, Europe, Asia, and Australia. Given the long tail nature of this business, these new lines have both increased the amount of reserves in the Global Reinsurance segment as well as the uncertainty in the loss estimation process. For our casualty reinsurance business, we generally rely on ceding companies to report claims and then use that data as a key input to estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses. Due to the reliance on claims information reported by ceding companies, as well as other factors, the estimation of unpaid losses and loss expenses for assumed reinsurance includes certain risks and uncertainties that are unique relative to our direct insurance business. These include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: The reported claims information could be inaccurate. Typically, a lag exists between the reporting of a loss event to a ceding company and its reporting to us as a reinsurance claim. The use of a broker to transmit financial information from a ceding company to us increases the reporting lag. Because most of our reinsurance business is produced by brokers, ceding companies generally first submit claim and other financial information to brokers, who then report the proportionate share of such information 68 to each reinsurer of a particular treaty. The reporting lag generally results in a longer period of time between the date a claim is incurred and the date a claim is reported compared with direct insurance operations. Therefore, the risk of delayed recognition of loss reserve development is higher for assumed reinsurance than for direct insurance lines. The historical claims data for a particular reinsurance agreement can be limited relative to our insurance business in that there may be less historical information available. Additionally, for many coverages, such as excess of loss contracts, there may be relatively few expected claims in a particular year so the actual number of claims may be susceptible to significant variability. In such cases, the actuary often relies on industry data from several recognized sources. We mitigate the above risks in several ways. In addition to routine analytical reviews of ceding company reports to ensure reported claims information appears reasonable, we perform regular underwriting and claims audits of certain ceding companies to ensure reported claims information is accurate, complete, and timely. As appropriate, audit findings are used to adjust claims in the reserving process. We also use our knowledge of the historical development of losses from individual ceding companies to adjust the level of adequacy we believe exists in the reported ceded losses. On occasion, there will be differences between our carried loss reserves and unearned premium reserves and the amount of loss reserves and unearned premium reserves reported by the ceding companies. This is due to the fact that we only receive consistent and timely information from ceding companies with respect to case reserves. For IBNR, we use historical experience and other statistical information, depending on the type of business, to estimate the ultimate loss (see Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses for more information). We estimate our unearned premium reserve by applying estimated earning patterns to net premiums written for each treaty based upon that treatys coverage basis (i.e. risks attaching or losses occurring). At December 31, 2005, the case reserves reported to us by our ceding companies were $767 million, compared with the $790 million we recorded. We do, on occasion, post additional case reserves in addition to the amounts reported by our cedants when our evaluation of the ultimate value of a reported claim is different than the evaluation of that claim by our cedant. Within the Insurance North American segment, we also have exposure to certain liability reinsurance lines that have been in run off since 1994. Unpaid losses and loss expenses relating to this run off reinsurance business resides within the Brandywine Division of our Insurance North American segment. Most of the remaining unpaid losses and loss expense reserves for the run off reinsurance business relate to asbestos and environmental claims. (Refer to Asbestos and Environmental Liabilities for more information) Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E. These A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to changes in the legal, social and economic environment. We have not assumed any such changes in setting the value of our A&E reserves, which include provision for both reported and IBNR claims. Our exposure to A&E claims principally arises out of liabilities acquired when we purchased Westchester Specialty in 1998 and the P&C business of CIGNA in 1999, with the larger exposure contained within the liabilities acquired in the CIGNA transaction. In 1996, prior to our acquisition of the P&C business of CIGNA, the Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner approved a plan to restructure INA Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Restructuring) which included the division of Insurance Company of North America (INA) into two separate corporations: (1) an active insurance company that retained the INA name and continued to write P&C business and (2) an inactive run off company, now called Century Indemnity Company (Century). As a result of the division, predominantly all A&E and certain other liabilities of INA were allocated to Century and extinguished, as a matter of Pennsylvania law, as liabilities of INA. As part of the Restructuring, the A&E liabilities of various U.S. affiliates of INA were reinsured to Century, and Century and certain other run off companies having A&E and other liabilities were contributed to Brandywine Holdings Corporation (Brandywine Holdings). As part of the 1999 acquisition of the P&C business of CIGNA, we acquired Brandywine Holdings and its various subsidiaries. See the Brandywine Run Off Entities section below for additional information. 69 The table below presents a roll forward of our consolidated loss and allocated loss expense reserves for A&E exposures, excluding the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, for the year ended December 31, 2005. Asbestos Environmental Total (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 3,872 $ 1,809 $ 735 $ 585 $ 4,607 $ 2,394 Losses and allocated expenses incurred 12 2 2 1 14 3 Losses and allocated loss expenses paid (219 ) (53 ) (113 ) (68 ) (332 ) (121 ) Foreign currency revaluation (24 ) (7 ) (24 ) (7 ) Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 3,641 $ 1,751 $ 624 $ 518 $ 4,265 $ 2,269 Net figures in the above table reflect third party reinsurance other than reinsurance provided by National Indemnity Company under three aggregate excess of loss contracts described below (collectively, the NICO contracts). With certain exceptions, the NICO contracts provide coverage primarily for our net A&E incurred losses and allocated loss expenses within the limits of coverage and above the retention levels of the NICO contracts. These exceptions include losses arising from the operations of ACE Overseas General and participations by ACE Bermuda as a co reinsurer or retrocessionaire in the NICO contracts. Brandywine Run off Impact of NICO Contracts The A&E net loss and allocated loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005 of $2.3 billion shown in the above table are comprised of $1.8 billion in reserves held by Brandywine run off companies, $211 million of reserves held by Westchester Specialty, and $242 million of reserves held by other ACE companies. The following table presents a more detailed roll forward of net loss and allocated loss adjustment expense reserves in respect of Brandywine operations only, including the impact of the Brandywine NICO Agreement, (as defined below). Brandywine NICO Net of NICO (in millions of U.S. dollars) A&E Other* Total Coverage Coverage Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 1,916 $ 1,361 $ 3,277 $ 2,073 $ 1,204 Losses and allocated expenses incurred 5 (33 ) (28 ) (28 ) Losses and allocated loss expenses paid (105 ) (125 ) (230 ) (211 ) (19 ) Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 1,816 $ 1,203 $ 3,019 $ 1,862 $ 1,157 * Other consists primarily of workers compensation, non A&E general liability losses and bad debt reserves on all subject business. 70 Westchester Specialty Impact of NICO Contracts As part of the acquisition of Westchester Specialty in 1998, NICO provided a 75 percent pro rata share of $1 billion of reinsurance protection on losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred on or before December 31, 1996 in excess of a retention of $721 million (the 1998 NICO Agreement). NICO has also provided an 85 percent pro rata share of $150 million of reinsurance protection on losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses incurred on or before December 31, 1992 in excess of a retention of $755 million (the 1992 NICO Agreement). At December 31, 2005, the remaining unused incurred limit under the 1998 NICO Agreement was $489 million. The 1992 NICO Agreement is exhausted on an incurred basis. The following presents a roll forward of net loss and loss adjustment expense reserves in respect of 1996 and prior Westchester Specialty operations that are the subject business of the NICO covers. Westchester Specialty NICO Net of NICO (in millions of U.S. dollars) A&E Other* Total Coverage Coverage Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 220 $ 227 $ 447 $ 379 $ 68 Losses and allocated expenses incurred 13 13 9 4 Losses and allocated loss expenses paid (9 ) (30 ) (39 ) (13 ) (26 ) Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 211 $ 210 $ 421 $ 375 $ 46 * Other consists primarily of non A&E general liability and products liability losses. Reserve Reviews We performed a ground up review of our consolidated A&E liabilities as of September 30, 2005. The comprehensive evaluation indicated a number of adjustments to particular account reserve balances but the overall result of the review indicated that no adjustment to total reserves was required. This internal review followed a review conducted last year by a team of external actuaries who performed an evaluation as to the adequacy of the reserves of Century and its two U.S. insurance subsidiaries, ACE American Reinsurance Company (ACE American Re) and Century Reinsurance Company (Century Re), both Pennsylvania insurers. The external review was conducted in accordance with the Brandywine Restructuring Order, which requires that an external actuarial review of Centurys reserves be completed every two years. The studies were completed early in 2005 and adjustments consistent with the best estimate of the internal review were recorded as of December 31, 2004. Activity in the period since completing the studies has not indicated a need to further adjust ultimate A&E reserves as of December 31, 2005. Our A&E reserves are not discounted and do not reflect any anticipated changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. Reserving Considerations For asbestos, we face claims relating to policies issued to manufacturers, distributors, installers and other parties in the chain of commerce for asbestos and products containing asbestos. Claims can be filed by individual claimants or group of claimants with the potential for hundreds of individual claimants at one time. Claimants will generally allege damages across an extended time period which may coincide with multiple policies for a single insured. Our definition of an asbestos claim count is a policyholder asbestos cause of action, with claims for bodily injury and property damage tracked separately. For example, an asbestos manufacturer who faces products liability claims alleging bodily injury from exposure to their product would generate one count regardless of the number of policies we may have issued or the actual numbers of underlying claimants alleging bodily injury damages. Environmental claims present exposure for remediation and defense costs associated with property damage as a result of pollution. It is common, especially for larger defendants, to be named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at multiple sites. Our environmental claim count definition is based on policyholder by site numbers. For example, if a policyholder were named as a PRP at ten pollution sites we would track this as ten claim counts. In addition, should we have multiple policyholders identified as PRPs at the same waste site, each would constitute a separate claim count. 71 The table below summarizes count information for asbestos and environmental claims for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, for direct policies only, and excludes claims from assumed reinsurance. 2005 2004 Asbestos (by causative agent) Open at the beginning of year 1,340 1,318 Newly reported 118 190 Closed or otherwise disposed 109 168 Open at end of year 1,349 1,340 Environmental (by site) Open at the beginning of year 7,172 8,588 Newly reported 345 549 Closed or otherwise disposed 615 1,965 Open at end of year 6,902 7,172 In 2005, the number of newly reported asbestos counts declined to 118 versus 190 new claims in 2004, a decrease of 38 percent. The total pending asbestos claims at December 31, 2005 were 1,349 as shown in the table above, a one percent increase over pending claims at December 31, 2004. In 2005, the number of newly reported environmental claims continued the downward decline experienced in recent years. The number of new sites in 2005 was 345, representing a decline of 37 percent over the 549 new sites reported in 2004. Total pending environmental claims at December 31, 2005 were 6,902, a four percent decline from the prior year. Following are gross and net survival ratios for our asbestos loss and ALAE reserves at December 31, 2005. The net ratios reflect third party reinsurance other than the aggregate excess reinsurance provided under the NICO contracts. These survival ratios are calculated by dividing the asbestos loss and ALAE reserves by the average asbestos loss and ALAE payments for the three most recent calendar years (3 year survival ratio), and by asbestos loss and ALAE payments in 2005 (1 year survival ratio). The survival ratios provide only a very rough measure of reserve adequacy and are significantly impacted by a number of factors such as aggressive settlement practices, variations in gross to ceded relationships within the asbestos claims and levels of coverage provided. We therefore urge caution in using these very simplistic ratios to gauge reserve adequacy and note that the 1 year survival ratios, particularly, are likely to move considerably from year to year for the reasons just described. The 1 year net survival ratio, for example, was heavily impacted by a single large cession of paid losses in 2005 that is not likely to repeat. 3 Year Survival Ratios 1 Year Survival Ratios Gross Net Gross Net 13.1 14.2 16.7 33.0 Brandywine Run off Entities As part of the acquisition of the CIGNA P&C business, NICO provided $2.5 billion of reinsurance protection to Century on all Brandywine loss and loss adjustment expense reserves and on the A&E reserves of various ACE INA insurance subsidiaries reinsured by Century (in each case, including uncollectible reinsurance). The benefits of this NICO contract (the Brandywine NICO Agreement) flow to the other Brandywine companies and to the ACE INA insurance subsidiaries through reinsurance agreements between those companies and Century. The Brandywine NICO Agreement was exhausted on an incurred basis with the increase in the A&E reserves in the fourth quarter of 2002. In addition to housing a significant portion of our A&E exposure, the Brandywine operations include run off liabilities related to various insurance and reinsurance businesses. The following companies comprise ACEs Brandywine operations: Century, a Pennsylvania insurer, Century Re, ACE American Re, Brandywine Reinsurance Company S.A. N.V., a Belgium insurer (Brandywine SANV), Century International Reinsurance Company Ltd., a Bermuda insurer (CIRC), and Brandywine Reinsurance Company (UK) Ltd., a U.K. insurer (BRUK). All of the Brandywine companies are direct or indirect subsidiaries of Brandywine Holdings except for BRUK, which is a direct subsidiary of ACE INA International Holdings, Ltd. (ACE INA International Holdings). BRUKs liabilities have been ceded to Century through CIRC. 72 The U.S. based ACE INA companies assumed two contractual obligations in respect of the Brandywine operations in connection with the Restructuring: a dividend retention fund obligation and a surplus maintenance obligation in the form of an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement. In accordance with the Brandywine restructuring order, INA Financial Corporation established and funded a dividend retention fund (the Dividend Retention Fund) consisting of $50 million plus investment earnings. The full balance of the Dividend Retention Fund was contributed to Century as of December 31, 2002. To the extent future dividends are paid by INA Holdings Corporation to its parent, INA Financial Corporation, and to the extent INA Financial Corporation then pays such dividends to INA Corporation, a portion of those dividends must be withheld to replenish the principal of the Dividend Retention Fund to $50 million within five years. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, no such dividends were paid, and therefore no replenishment of the Dividend Retention Fund occurred. The obligation to maintain and to replenish the Dividend Retention Fund as necessary and to the extent dividends are paid is ongoing until ACE INA receives prior written approval from the Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner to terminate the fund. In addition, the ACE INA insurance subsidiaries are obligated to provide insurance coverage to Century in the amount of $800 million under an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement (the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement) if the statutory capital and surplus of Century falls below $25 million or if Century lacks liquid assets with which to pay claims as they become due, after giving effect to the contribution of the balance, if any, of the Dividend Retention Fund. Coverage under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement was triggered as of December 31, 2002 following contribution of the balance of the Dividend Retention Fund, because Centurys capital and surplus fell below $25 million at December 31, 2002. Effective December 31, 2004, ACE INA Holdings contributed $100 million to Century in exchange for a surplus note. After giving effect to the contribution and issuance of the surplus note, the statutory surplus of Century at December 31, 2005 was $25 million and approximately $465 million in statutory basis losses were ceded to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement. Century reports the amount ceded under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement in accordance with statutory accounting principles, which differ from GAAP by, among other things, allowing Century to discount its asbestos and environmental reserves. For GAAP reporting purposes, intercompany reinsurance recoverables related to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement are eliminated in consolidation. To estimate ACEs remaining claim exposure under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement under GAAP, we adjust the statutory cession to exclude the discount embedded in statutory loss reserves. At December 31, 2005, approximately $793 million in GAAP basis losses were ceded under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement, leaving a remaining limit of coverage under that agreement of approximately $7 million. While we believe ACE has no legal obligation to fund losses above the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement limit of coverage, ACEs consolidated results would nevertheless continue to report any losses above the limit of coverage for so long as those Brandywine companies remain consolidated subsidiaries of ACE. Uncertainties Relating to ACEs Ultimate Brandywine Exposure In addition to the Dividend Retention Fund and Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement commitments described above, certain ACE entities are primarily liable for asbestos, environmental and other exposures that they have reinsured to Century. Accordingly, if Century were to become insolvent and ACE were to lose control of Century, some or all of the recoverables due to these ACE companies from Century could become uncollectible, yet those ACE entities would continue to be responsible to pay claims to their insureds or reinsureds. Under such circumstances, ACE would recognize a loss in its consolidated statement of operations. As of December 31, 2005, the aggregate reinsurance balances ceded by the active ACE companies to Century were approximately $1.6 billion. At December 31, 2005, Centurys carried gross reserves (including reserves ceded by the active ACE companies to Century) were $4.5 billion. We believe the intercompany reinsurance recoverables, which relate to liabilities payable over many years (i.e., 25 years or more), are not impaired at this time. A substantial portion of the liabilities ceded to Century by its affiliates have in turn been ceded by Century to NICO and, as of December 31, 2005, approximately $1.9 billion of cover remains on a paid basis. The impact of the transaction described below would reduce the balance due from Century to active ACE Companies by $90 million. Should Centurys loss reserves experience adverse development in the future and should Century be placed into rehabilitation or liquidation, the reinsurance recoverables due to Centurys affiliates would be payable only after the payment in full of certain expense and liabilities, including administrative expenses and direct policy liabilities. Thus, the intercompany reinsurance recoverables would be at risk to the extent of the shortage of assets remaining to pay these recoverables. As of December 31, 2005, reserves ceded by Century to the active ACE companies and other amounts owed to Century by the ACE active companies were approximately $800 million in the aggregate. 73 In a lawsuit filed in California state court in December 1999 (AICCO, Inc v. Insurance Company of North America, et al.) certain competitors of ACE USA challenged the validity of the Restructuring under Californias Unfair Competition Law, Business and Professions Code Section 17200 (UCL). The lawsuit claims that the Restructuring is not applicable to California policyholders under the UCL because it constituted a transfer of liabilities without the consent of the policyholders. The suit also claims that the notice of the Restructuring was misleading. In November 2004, the voters of California approved Proposition 64 amending the UCL by, among other things, requiring that lawsuits brought under the UCL be brought by plaintiffs who have suffered actual injury as a result of the challenged business practice. In response to a motion to dismiss brought by ACE USA, the court ruled in February 2005 that the competitors/plaintiffs who brought this suit have not alleged actual injury as required by Proposition 64 and dismissed the suit. Plaintiffs filed a timely notice of appeal on May 5, 2005. Pending Sale of Certain Brandywine Companies On January 5, 2005, Century and ACE INA International Holdings entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with Randall & Quilter Investment Holdings Limited (R&Q), which provides for the sale of ACE American Re, BRUK and Brandywine SANV to R&Q. Closing of the sale is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including without limitation the obtaining of all necessary consents and approvals from third parties, including the Pennsylvania Insurance Department and the Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom, and the commutation of certain affiliate reinsurance agreements. In connection with certain of these commutations, Centurys assumed loss reserves would be reduced and an associated amount of coverage would become available under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement. The Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom granted approval for the transaction on February 27, 2006. We are considering potential options for the disposition of other Brandywine entities, including a possible sale of Century. There can be no assurance that any such sale or other disposition will be consummated. Legislative Initiatives On May 26, 2005, the Senate Judiciary Committee passed out of committee legislation to move all U.S. asbestos bodily injury claims to a federal trust for compensation in accordance with an established set of medical criteria and claim values. The trust would be funded by asbestos defendants and their insurers. As currently proposed, ACE would be one of the insurer participants. The full Senate began consideration of the bill in early February 2006. A budget point of order was raised asserting that the bill would cost the federal government more than $5 billion over a ten year period in violation of a congressional limit on spending. On February 14, 2006, the Senate failed to obtain the 60 votes necessary to waive the budget point of order which has the effect of sending the bill back to the Senate Judiciary Committee. While a second vote on the budget point of order is possible, at this point passage of the trust does not appear likely. Reinsurance One of the ways we manage our loss exposure is through the use of reinsurance. While reinsurance agreements are designed to limit our losses from large exposures and permit recovery of a portion of direct unpaid losses, reinsurance does not relieve us of our liability to our insureds. Accordingly, the losses and loss expense reserves on our balance sheet represent our total unpaid gross losses. The reinsurance recoverable represents anticipated recoveries of a portion of those gross unpaid losses as well as amounts recoverable from reinsurers with respect to claims paid. The table below presents our net reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) December 312005 December 312004 Reinsurance recoverable on paid losses and loss expenses $ 1,191 $ 1,210 Provision for uncollectible reinsurance on paid losses and loss expenses (336 ) (309 ) Reinsurance recoverable on future policy benefits 11 15 Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses 15,048 14,585 Provision for uncollectible reinsurance on unpaid losses and loss expenses (451 ) (619 ) Net reinsurance recoverable $ 15,463 $ 14,882 74 Our reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses increased in 2005, primarily due to catastrophe losses which added approximately $1.4 billion to the balance. This impact was partially offset by the novation of approximately $600 million of reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses as intended under our 1999 agreement in connection with the purchase of CIGNAs P&C businesses. During 2005, we wrote off approximately $130 million of reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses (and associated provision for uncollectible reinsurance of the same amount) which we believe to be uncollectible. This action had no impact on our net income. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate cash flows sufficient to meet short term and long term cash requirements of its business operations. As a holding company, ACE Limited possesses assets that consist primarily of the stock of its subsidiaries, and of other investments. In addition to net investment income, our cash flows currently depend primarily on dividends or other statutorily permissible payments. Historically, these dividends and other payments have come from our Bermuda based operating subsidiaries, which we refer to as our Bermuda subsidiaries. As an insurance company, one of our principal responsibilities to our clients is to ensure that we have ready access to funds to settle large unforeseen claims. Given anticipated growth in premiums and a lengthening of the average duration of our claim liabilities due to a higher proportionate growth in long tail relative to short tail business, we expect that positive cash flow from operations (underwriting activities and investment income) will be sufficient to cover cash outflows under most loss scenarios through 2006. To further ensure the sufficiency of funds to settle unforeseen claims, we hold a certain amount of invested assets in cash and short term investments and maintain available credit facilities (see section entitled, Credit Facilities, below). In addition, for certain insurance, reinsurance, or deposit contracts that tend to have relatively large and reasonably predictable cash outflows, such as loss portfolio contracts, we attempt to establish dedicated portfolios of assets that are duration matched with the related liabilities. With respect to the duration of our overall investment portfolio, we manage asset durations to both maximize return given current market conditions and provide sufficient liquidity to cover future loss payments. In a low interest rate environment, the overall duration of our fixed maturity investments tends to be shorter and in a high interest rate environment, such durations tend to be longer. Given the current low rate environment, at December 31, 2005, the average duration of our fixed maturity investments (2.9 years) is less than the average expected duration of our insurance liabilities (4.0 years). Despite our safeguards, if paid losses accelerated beyond our ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows, we might need to either liquidate a portion of our investment portfolio or arrange for financing. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could be several significant catastrophes occurring in a relatively short period of time or large scale uncollectible reinsurance recoverables on paid losses (as a result of coverage disputes, reinsurers credit problems or decreases in the value of collateral supporting reinsurance recoverables). Additional strain on liquidity could occur if the investments sold to fund loss payments were sold at depressed prices. Because each subsidiary focuses on a more limited number of specific product lines than is collectively available from the ACE group of companies, the mix of business tends to be less diverse at the subsidiary level. As a result, the probability of a liquidity strain, as described above, may be greater for individual subsidiaries than when liquidity is assessed on a consolidated basis. If such a liquidity strain were to occur in a subsidiary, we could liquidate a portion of the portfolio as well as be required to contribute capital to the particular subsidiary and or curtail dividends from the subsidiary to support holding company operations. The payments of dividends or other statutorily permissible distributions from our operating companies are subject to the laws and regulations applicable to each jurisdiction, as well as the need to maintain capital levels adequate to support the insurance and reinsurance operations, including financial strength ratings issued by independent rating agencies, which are discussed below. During 2005, we were able to meet all of our obligations, including the payment of dividends declared on our Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares, with our net cash flow and dividends received. Should the need arise, we generally have access to the capital markets (which we accessed in 2005, refer to Capital Resources for more information) and other available credit facilities. We assess which subsidiaries to draw dividends from based on a number of factors. Considerations such as regulatory and legal restrictions as well as the subsidiarys financial condition are paramount to the dividend decision. The legal restrictions on the payment of dividends from retained earnings by our Bermuda subsidiaries are currently 75 satisfied by the share capital and additional paid in capital of each of the Bermuda subsidiaries. During 2005, ACE Bermuda and ACE Tempest Life Reinsurance Ltd declared and paid dividends of $548 million and $32 million, respectively. During 2004, ACE Bermuda and ACE Tempest Life Reinsurance Ltd declared and paid dividends of $227 million and $259 million, respectively. We expect that a majority of our cash inflows in 2006 will be from our Bermuda subsidiaries. The payment of any dividends from ACE Global Markets or its subsidiaries is subject to applicable U.K. insurance laws and regulations. In addition, the release of funds by Syndicate 2488 to subsidiaries of ACE Global Markets is subject to regulations promulgated by the Society of Lloyds. ACE INAs U.S. insurance subsidiaries may pay dividends, without prior regulatory approval, subject to restrictions set out in state law of the subsidiarys domicile (or, if applicable, commercial domicile). Typically, restrictions state that dividends may only be paid from earned surplus (unassigned funds) and are subject to (i) certain limitations based upon the policyholder surplus and or net income or investment income of the insurer (specific threshold set by state law of insurers domicile); (ii) total dividends paid during a twelve month period, and (iii) the maintenance of minimum capital requirements. ACE INAs international subsidiaries are also subject to insurance laws and regulations particular to the countries in which the subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations sometimes include restrictions that limit the amount of dividends payable without prior approval of regulatory insurance authorities. ACE Limited did not receive any dividends from ACE Global Markets or ACE INA in 2005 and 2004. The debt issued by ACE INA to provide partial financing for the ACE INA acquisition and for other operating needs is serviced by statutorily permissible distributions by ACE INAs insurance subsidiaries to ACE INA as well as other group resources. Our consolidated sources of funds consist primarily of net premiums written, net investment income and proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. Funds are used primarily to pay claims, operating expenses, dividends and for the purchase of investments. After satisfying our cash requirements, excess cash flows from these underwriting and investing activities are invested. Our insurance and reinsurance operations provide liquidity in that premiums are received in advance, sometimes substantially in advance, of the time claims are paid. Generally cash flows are affected by claim payments that, due to the nature of our operations, may comprise large loss payments on a limited number of claims and which can fluctuate significantly from period to period. The irregular timing of these loss payments can create significant variations in cash flows from operations between periods. Refer to the section entitled, Contractual obligations and commitments for our estimate for future claim payments by period. Sources of liquidity include cash from operations, routine sales of investments and financing arrangements. Our consolidated net cash flows from operating activities were $4.3 billion in 2005, compared with $4.9 billion in 2004. These amounts reflect net income for each period, adjusted for non cash items and changes in working capital. Net income decreased $125 million in 2005, compared with 2004. Primarily due to the significant catastrophe losses (and related payments) over the last two years, our net losses and loss expenses paid increased to $5.4 billion in 2005, compared with $4.8 billion for the same period in 2004. Our consolidated net cash flows used for investing activities were $5.6 billion in 2005 compared with $4.9 billion in 2004. For the indicated periods, net cash flows used for investing activities were related principally to purchases of fixed maturities. Net purchases of fixed maturities were $5.5 billion in 2005, compared with $5.1 billion in 2004. In 2005, net cash flows used for investing activities benefited from the net proceeds of the public offering of approximately $1.5 billion. Net cash flows used for investing activities in 2004, included $959 million from the sale of Assured Guaranty (net of cash sold of $82 million). Our consolidated net cash flows from financing activities were $1.3 billion in 2005, compared with consolidated net cash flows used for financing activities of $155 million in 2004. For the current year, cash flows from financing activities increased due to our public offering, and due to an increase in proceeds from the exercise of options for Ordinary Shares. Although our ongoing operations continue to generate positive cash flows, our cash flows are currently impacted by a large book of loss reserves from businesses in run off. The run off operations generated negative operating cash flows of $170 million in 2005, compared with $88 million in 2004. Both internal and external forces influence our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Claim settlements, premium levels and investment returns may be impacted by changing rates of inflation and other economic conditions. In many cases, significant periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, may lapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us and the settlement of the liability for that 76 loss. We believe that our cash balances, cash flow from operations, routine sales of investments and the liquidity provided by our credit facilities, as discussed below, are adequate to meet expected cash requirements. In order to enhance cash management efficiency, during the first quarter of 2006 we entered into an agreement to implement a multi currency notional cash pooling program with a bank provider. In this program, participating ACE entities (based on regulatory approval) establish deposit accounts in different currencies with the bank provider and, each day, the credit or debit balances in each account are notionally translated into a single currency (US dollars in our case) and then notionally pooled. The bank extends overdraft credit to any participating ACE entity as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts at the end of each day is at least zero. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not co mingled between legal entities. This program is particularly effective during periods of short term timing mismatches between expected inflows and outflows of cash by currency. ACE entities may incur overdraft balances as a means to address such mismatches, and any overdraft balances incurred under this program by an ACE entity would be guaranteed by ACE Limited (up to $50 million in the aggregate) and classified as short term debt on our balance sheet. ACE Limited has negotiated a dedicated credit facility to support this program. ACE and its subsidiaries are assigned debt and financial strength (insurance) ratings from internationally recognized rating agencies, including S&P, A.M. Best, Moodys Investors Service and Fitch IBCA. The ratings issued on our companies by these agencies are announced publicly and are available directly from the agencies. Our internet site, acelimited.com, also contains some information about our ratings, which can be found under the Investor Information tab. Financial strength ratings represent the opinions of the rating agencies on the financial strength of a company and its capacity to meet the obligations of insurance policies. Independent ratings are one of the important factors that establish our competitive position in the insurance markets. The rating agencies consider many factors in determining the financial strength rating of an insurance company, including the relative level of statutory surplus necessary to support the business operations of the company. These ratings are based upon factors relevant to policyholders, agents and intermediaries and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities. Debt ratings apply to short term and long term debt as well as preferred stock. These ratings are assessments of the likelihood that we will make timely payments of principal and interest and preferred stock dividends. It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies may reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. In addition, our insurance and reinsurance operations could be adversely impacted by a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, including a possible reduction in demand for our products in certain markets. Capital Resources Capital resources consist of funds deployed or available to be deployed to support our business operations. The following table summarizes the components of our capital resources at December 31, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) December 31 2005 December 31 2004 Short term debt $ 300 $ 146 Long term debt 1,811 1,849 Total debt 2,111 1,995 Trust preferred securities 309 412 Preferred Shares 557 557 Ordinary shareholders equity 11,255 9,288 Total shareholders equity 11,812 9,845 Total capitalization $ 14,232 $ 12,252 Ratio of debt to total capitalization 14.8% 16.3% Ratio of debt plus trust preferreds to total capitalization 17.0% 19.6% We believe our financial strength provides us with the flexibility and capacity to obtain funds externally through debt or equity financing on both a short term and long term basis. Our ability to access the capital markets is dependent on, 77 among other things, market conditions and our perceived financial strength. We have accessed both the debt and equity markets from time to time. On October 4, 2005, we completed a public offering of 32.91 million Ordinary Shares (which included the over allotment option of 4.29 million Ordinary Shares) at a price per share of $45.58, for total gross proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion. We are using the net proceeds of the offering for growth opportunities in the global insurance and reinsurance markets. As part of our capital management program, in November 2001, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of any ACE issued debt or capital securities including Ordinary Shares, up to $250 million. At December 31, 2005, this authorization had not been utilized. During 2004, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC relating to the issuance of up to $1.5 billion of certain types of debt and equity securities. This registration became effective during the first quarter of 2005, and was exhausted upon completion of our approximately $1.5 billion public offering in October 2005. We generally maintain shelf capacity at all times, in order to allow capital market access for refinancing as well as for unforeseen capital needs. Consistent with this policy, on December 16, 2005, we filed an unlimited shelf registration statement under the SECs new securities reform rules. The automatic shelf registration expires in December 2008. Shareholders Equity The following table analyzes the movements in our shareholders equity for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 2003 Balance, beginning of year $ 9,845 $ 8,823 $ 6,271 Net income 1,028 1,153 1,482 Change in net unrealized appreciation on investments, net of income tax (317 ) (50 ) 208 Dividends declared Ordinary Shares (267 ) (233 ) (204 ) Dividends declared Preferred Shares (45 ) (45 ) (22 ) Cumulative translation adjustments (91 ) 99 107 Issuance of Ordinary Shares 1,465 Other movements, net 194 98 123 Dividends declared Mezzanine equity (10 ) Issuance of Preferred Shares 557 Conversion of Mezzanine equity 311 Balance, end of year $ 11,812 $ 9,845 $ 8,823 Our book value per Ordinary Share increased to $34.81 at December 31, 2005, compared with $32.65 at December 31, 2004. Shareholders equity increased $2 billion in 2005, primarily due to net income and the proceeds of the public offering, partially offset by unrealized depreciation on our investment portfolio and dividends declared. On January 14, 2005, and April 14, 2005, we paid dividends of 21 cents per Ordinary Share to shareholders of record on December 31, 2004 and March 31, 2005, respectively. On July 14, 2005, October 14, 2005, and January 12, 2006, we paid dividends of 23 cents per Ordinary Share to shareholders of record on June 30, 2005, September 30, 2005, and December 30, 2005, respectively. We have paid dividends each quarter since we became a public company in 1993. However, the declaration, payment and value of future dividends on Ordinary Shares is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our profits, financial requirements and other factors, including legal restrictions on the payment of dividends and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. Dividends on the Preferred Shares are payable quarterly, when and if declared by our Board of Directors, in arrears on March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1 of each year. In 2005, we paid dividends of $4.875 per Preferred Share (which translates to $48.75 cents per Depositary Share) on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1, to shareholders of record on February 28, May 31, August 31, and November 30, respectively. 78 Contractual Obligations and Commitments The table below shows our contractual obligations and commitments including our payments due by period at December 31, 2005: Payments Due By Period (in millions of U.S. dollars) Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5 Years Payment amounts determinable from the contract Deposit liabilities $ 350 $ 81 $ 114 $ 49 $ 106 Operating leases 360 58 98 76 128 Short term debt 300 300 Long term debt 1,811 823 374 614 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Interest on debt obligations 1,371 154 217 167 833 Total obligations in which payment amounts are determinable from the contract 4,501 593 1,252 666 1,990 Payment amounts not determinable from the contract Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts 35,055 7,693 9,279 5,058 13,025 Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 39,556 $ 8,286 $ 10,531 $ 5,724 $ 15,015 The above table excludes pension obligations, funding commitments to limited partnerships and future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts. Minimum funding requirements for our pension obligations are immaterial over the next year. Subsequent funding commitments are apt to vary due to many factors and are difficult to estimate at this time. In connection with our investments in limited partnerships, we have commitments that may require funding of up to $153 million over the next several years. As the timing of payment of these commitments is unknown, we have excluded the amounts from the above table. We establish reserves for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts, including, but not limited to, guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDBs) and GMIBs. Payment amounts related to these reserves must be estimated and are not determinable from the contract. We estimate that on a discounted basis, we expect to pay $521 million associated with these obligations, the majority of which will be paid in excess of five years. In addition, the above table excludes our Preferred Shares, issued in 2003, which have no fixed repayment terms. We may redeem the Preferred Shares at any time after May 30, 2008, at a redemption value of $25 per depository share (each of which represent one tenth of one of Preferred Share) or at any time under certain limited circumstances. Refer to Note 9 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our Preferred Shares. Deposit Liabilities Deposit liabilities of $350 million include reinsurance deposit liabilities of $212 million and contract holder deposit funds of $138 million. Contract holder deposit funds represent a liability for investment contracts sold that do not meet the definition of an insurance contract under FAS No. 97, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments. The investment contracts are sold with a guaranteed rate of return. The proceeds are then invested with the intent of realizing a greater return than is called for in the investment contracts. Additional information with respect to deposit liabilities is contained in Note 2 j) of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating Lease Commitments We lease office space in most countries in which we operate under operating leases that expire at various dates through December 2033. We renew and enter into new leases in the ordinary course of business as required. 79 Short term Debt From time to time, we use securities repurchase agreements as a source of short term liquidity. Under these repurchase agreements, we agree to sell securities and repurchase them at a future date for a predetermined price, thereby creating liquidity. The covenants of our existing credit facilities limit our borrowing under repurchase agreements to $1 billion. At December 31, 2005, no repurchase agreements were outstanding. Included in short term debt at December 31, 2005 was ACE INAs $300 million, 8.3 percent notes due in August 2006. In June 1999, we arranged certain commercial paper programs. The programs use revolving credit facilities as back up facilities and (following a reduction in program size by ACE Limited and ACE INA during the second quarter of 2005), provide for up to $600 million in commercial paper issuance (subject to the availability of back up facilities, which currently total $600 million) at each of ACE Limited and ACE INA. At December 31, 2005, there was no commercial paper outstanding. Long term Debt Our total long term debt of $1.8 billion is described in detail in Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2005, ACE European Holdings No. 2 Limited entered into a &pound;100 million syndicated five year term loan agreement and ACE Australia Holdings PTY Limited entered into an AUD $100 million syndicated two year term loan agreement. Obligations of both borrowers under each loan agreement were guaranteed by ACE Limited. Both loan agreements are unsecured and repayable on maturity. The total proceeds were used to retire indebtedness of ACE INA Holdings Inc. and for general corporate purposes. In August 2005, due to favorable low interest terms, ACE American borrowed $10 million from the Pennsylvania Industrial Development Authority (PIDA) at a rate of 2.75 percent due September 1, 2020. The proceeds from PIDA were restricted for purposes of defraying construction costs on a new office building. Principle and interest are payable on a monthly basis. The current balance outstanding is $10 million. Long term debt for 2005 also includes a reclassified loan of $5 million from the City of Philadelphia under the Urban Development Action Grant (UDAG). Both of these loans support real estate used in the day to day operations of subsidiaries. Additionally, the ACE INA issued $300 million, 8.3 percent notes due August 15, 2006, were reclassified from long term debt to short term debt. The following instruments have specific collateral triggers. In 1998, ACE US Holdings issued $250 million of unsecured senior notes that mature in October 2008. In December 1999, ACE INA issued $300 million of unsecured subordinated notes that mature in December 2009 we repaid $100 million of this outstanding amount during 2002. We have a $450 million credit default swap in place that has the economic effect of reducing our cost of borrowing associated with these two issuances. The minimum collateral in connection with the credit default swap is $158 million. The actual collateral can be higher depending on the credit quality of securities pledged. Under these transactions, we would be required to provide collateral of $450 million if S&P downgraded our debt rating to BB+ or lower, or downgraded ACE Bermudas financial strength rating to BBB or lower. Although there can be no assurance, we believe it is unlikely that either of these two events will occur. In the event that we terminate either of the swaps prematurely, we would be liable for certain transaction costs. The counter party in each swap is a highly rated major financial institution and management does not anticipate non performance. Trust Preferred Securities During 1999 and 2000, we issued $800 million of trust preferred securities. The funds generated from these issues were used to partially finance the ACE INA acquisition. In 2002, $400 million of the trust preferred securities matured and were repaid. In 2005 and 2004, we repaid an additional $175 million ($100 million ACE INA trust preferred securities in 2005 and $75 million Capital Re trust preferred securities in 2004). The securities outstanding consist of $300 million of trust preferred securities issued by a special purpose entity (a trust) that is wholly owned by us. The sole assets of the special purpose entities are debt instruments issued by one or more of our subsidiaries. The special purpose entity looks to payments on the debt instruments to make payments on the preferred securities. We have guaranteed the payments on these debt instruments. The trustees of the trust include one or more of our officers and at least one independent trustee, such as a trust company. Our officers serving as trustees of the trust do not receive any compensation or other remuneration for their services in such capacity. The full $309 million of outstanding trust preferred stock (calculated as $300 million as discussed above plus our equity share of the trust) is shown on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability. Additional information with respect to the trust preferred securities is contained in Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. 80 Estimated Gross Loss Payments under Insurance and Reinsurance Contracts We are obligated to pay claims under insurance and reinsurance contracts for specified loss events covered under those contracts. As a P&C insurance and reinsurance company, such loss payments represent our most significant future payment obligation. In contrast to other contractual obligations, cash payments are not determinable from the terms specified within the contract. For example, we do not ultimately make a payment to our counterparty for many insurance and reinsurance contracts (i.e., when a loss event has not occurred) and if a payment is to be made, the amount and timing cannot be determined from the contract. In the table above, we estimate payments by period relating to our gross liability for unpaid losses and loss expenses included in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2005 and do not take reinsurance recoverables into account. These estimated loss payments are inherently uncertain and the amount and timing of actual loss payments are likely to differ from these estimates and the differences could be material. Given the numerous factors and assumptions involved in both estimates of losses and loss expense reserves and related estimates as to the timing of future losses and loss expense payments in the table above, differences between actual and estimated loss payments will not necessarily indicate a commensurate change in ultimate loss estimates. Credit Facilities As our Bermuda subsidiaries are not admitted insurers and reinsurers in the U.S., the terms of certain U.S. insurance and reinsurance contracts require them to provide letters of credit (LOCs) to clients. In addition, ACE Global Markets is required to satisfy certain U.S. regulatory trust fund requirements which can be met by the issuance of LOCs. LOCs may also be used for general corporate purposes and for Funds at Lloyds. The following table shows our credit facilities by credit line, usage, expiry date and purpose at December 31, 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Credit Line(1) Usage Expiry Date Unsecured Liquidity Facilities ACE Limited(2) $ 600 $ 64 Dec. 2010 Secured Operational LOC Facilities ACE Limited 500 303 July 2010 Other(3) 71 71 Various Unsecured Operational LOC Facilities ACE Limited 1,000 753 July 2010 Unsecured Capital Facilities ACE Limited(4) 655 489 Dec. 2010 Total $ 2,826 $ 1,680 (1) Certain facilities are guaranteed by operating subsidiaries and or ACE Limited. (2) Commercial paper back up facility may also be used for LOCs. (3) These facilities are issued in the name of ACE European Group Limited, Lloyds Syndicate 2488 and Century Indemnity Reinsurance Company. (4) Supports ACE Global Markets 2005 underwriting capacity of &pound;400 million (approximately $689 million) for Lloyds Syndicate 2488 there is an expectation that this facility will be fully utilized during 2006. With the exception of the LOC facilities noted under Other, the facilities noted above require that we maintain certain covenants, all of which have been met at December 31, 2005. These covenants include: (i) maintenance of a minimum consolidated net worth in an amount not less than the Minimum Amount. For the purpose of this calculation, the Minimum Amount is an amount equal to the sum of the base amount (currently $6.4 billion) plus 25 percent of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter, ending after the date on which the current base amount became effective, plus 50 percent of any increase in consolidated net worth during the same period, attributable to the issuance of ordinary and preferred shares. The Minimum Amount is subject to an annual reset provision; and (ii) maintenance of a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of not greater than 0.35 to 1. Under this covenant, debt does not include trust preferred securities or mezzanine equity, except where the ratio of the sum of trust preferred securities and mezzanine equity to total capitalization is greater than 15 percent. In this circumstance, the amount greater than 15 percent would be included in the debt to total capitalization ratio. 81 At December 31, 2005, (a) the minimum consolidated net worth requirement under the covenant described in (i) above was $7.4 billion and our actual consolidated net worth as calculated under that covenant was $11.5 billion; and (b) our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 0.15 to 1. In addition to these covenants, the ACE Global Markets capital facility requires that collateral be posted if the financial strength rating of ACE falls to S&P BBB+ or lower. Our failure to comply with the covenants under any credit facility would, subject to grace periods in the case of certain covenants, result in an event of default. This could require us to repay any outstanding borrowings or to cash collateralize letters of credit under such facility. A failure by ACE Limited (or any of its subsidiaries) to pay an obligation due for an amount exceeding $50 million would result in an event of default under all of the facilities described above. American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act (the Act) was signed into law by the President of the United States. The Act provides for the election of a special one time tax deduction of 85 percent of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated (as defined in the Act) under a Domestic Reinvestment Plan (DRP) to its United States parent corporation in either the parents last tax year that began before the enactment date, or the first tax year that begins during the one year period beginning on the date of enactment. The Act was subsequently modified by several tax technical correction provisions included in the Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005. We will apply the provisions of the Act (as modified) to certain of our subsidiaries for the 2005 tax year. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we repatriated foreign earnings of $500 million subject to DRPs that qualify for preferential treatment under the Act. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the tax benefit under the Act associated with these repatriations is $69 million and is a result of the reduction of the net deferred tax liability associated with these repatriated earnings. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 q) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Market Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. We are exposed to potential loss to various market risks, including changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Further, through the writings of certain products such as credit derivatives (through our approximately 35 percent ownership of Assured Guaranty) and GMIB and GMDB products, we are exposed to deterioration in the credit markets, decreases in interest rates and declines in the equity markets. Our investment portfolio consists of both fixed income and equity securities, denominated in both U.S. and foreign currencies, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our fixed income and all of our equity securities are classified as available for sale, and as such changes in interest rates, equity prices or foreign currency exchange rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Nevertheless, changes in interest rates and equity prices effect consolidated net income when, and if, a security is sold or impaired. From time to time, we also use investment derivative instruments such as futures, options, interest rate swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage the duration of our investment portfolio and foreign currency exposures and also to obtain exposure to a particular financial market. In addition, as part of our investing activity, we purchase TBAs. These instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are sensitive to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity security prices. Changes in the fair value of TBAs are included in our net realized gains or losses and therefore have an immediate effect on both our net income and shareholders equity. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, our notional exposure to investment derivative instruments was $17 billion and $4 billion, respectively. The increase in 2005 was primarily due to the use of derivative financial instruments to manage duration and credit risk and the growth size of the investment portfolio. We seek to mitigate market risk using a number of techniques, including maintaining and managing the assets and liabilities of our international operations consistent with the foreign currencies of the underlying insurance and reinsurance businesses, thereby limiting exchange rate risk to net assets denominated in foreign currencies. Also, from 82 time to time, we enter into derivative financial instruments for the purpose of managing certain investment portfolio exposures. The following is a discussion of our primary market risk exposures at December 31, 2005. Our policies to address these risks in 2005 were not materially different from 2004. We do not currently anticipate significant changes in our primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. Interest rate risk Our exposure to interest rate risk is primarily concentrated in our fixed income portfolio, our debt obligations and to a lesser extent, our GMIB reinsurance business. Changes in investment values attributable to interest rate changes are mitigated by corresponding and partially offsetting changes in the economic value of our insurance reserves and debt obligations. We monitor this exposure through periodic reviews of our asset and liability positions. The following table shows the impact on the market value of our fixed income portfolio of an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points applied instantly across the yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario) at December 31, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 Fair value of fixed income portfolio $ 29,639 $ 25,054 Pre tax impact of 100 basis point increase in interest rates $ 824 $ 800 Percentage of total fixed income portfolio at fair value 2.8% 3.2% Changes in interest rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Although our debt, preferred stock, and trust preferred securities (collectively, referred to as debt obligations) are reported at amortized value and not adjusted for fair value changes, changes in interest rates could have a material impact on their fair value, albeit there is no immediate impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table shows the impact on the market value of our debt obligations of a decrease in interest rates of 100 basis points applied instantly across the yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario) at December 31, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 Fair value of debt obligations $ 2,992 $ 3,147 Impact of 100 basis point decrease in interest rates $ 218 $ 250 Percentage of total debt obligations at fair value 7.3% 8.0% Variations in market interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of prepayments due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual results could differ from those reflected in the tables. Our net income is directly impacted by changes in the fair value of GMIBs. For example, net realized gains of $18 million and $10 million were reported for GMIB reinsurance in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The change in the fair value of GMIBs are determined using internal valuation models. Such valuations require considerable judgment and are subject to significant uncertainty. The valuation of these products is subject to fluctuations arising from, among other factors, changes in interest rates, changes in the equity markets, and changes in the allocation of the investments underlying annuitants account value. These models and the related assumptions are continually reviewed by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon improvements in modeling techniques and availability of more timely information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. On September 30, 2005, we entered into a derivative transaction, which has the effect of reducing our net exposure to equity market movements and to a lesser extent, interest rate market movements related to GMIBs. The derivative has an expiration date of September 30, 2015. Including the effect of the derivative, we estimate that based on in force annuities covered by GMIB reinsurance treaties at December 31, 2005, a downward parallel shift of the yield curve of 100 basis points would result in an unrealized losses of approximately $82 million. This estimated change in fair value would be recorded as net realized losses in our net income. The gain or loss created by the estimated fair 83 value adjustment will rise or fall each period based on estimated market pricing and may not be an indication of ultimate claims. Equity price risk Our portfolio of equity securities, which we carry on our balance sheet at fair value, has exposure to price risk. This risk is defined as the potential loss in fair value resulting from adverse changes in stock prices. In addition, we attain exposure to the equity markets through the use of derivative instruments, which also have exposure to price risk. Our U.S. equity portfolio is correlated with the S&P 500 index and changes in that index would approximate the impact on our portfolio. Our international equity portfolio has exposure to a broad range of non U.S. equity markets. The following table provides more information on our exposure to equity price risk at December 31, 2005 and 2004. (millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 Fair value of equity securities $ 1,507 $ 1,265 Fair value of equity derivative instruments 131 Total equity exposure $ 1,507 $ 1,396 Pre tax impact of 10 percent decline in market prices for equity exposures $ 151 $ 140 Changes in fair value of the derivative equity instruments are recorded as net realized gains (losses) in the consolidated statements of operations. Changes in the fair value of our equity portfolio are recorded as unrealized appreciation (depreciation) and are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. As discussed above, our net income is directly impacted by changes in the fair value of GMIBs. Including the derivative purchased as an economic hedge for market risks of GMIBs as discussed above and based on in force annuities covered by GMIB reinsurance treaties at December 31, 2005, we estimate that a 10 percent decline in the S&P index would result in an unrealized loss of approximately $12 million. This estimated change in fair value would be recorded as net realized losses in our net income. The gain or loss created by the estimated fair value adjustment will rise or fall each period based on estimated market pricing and may not be an indication of ultimate claims. Foreign currency exchange rate risk Many of our non U.S. companies maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Therefore, foreign exchange rate risk is generally limited to net assets denominated in those foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. Locally required capital levels are invested in home currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements, and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk for us are the British pound sterling, the Euro and the Canadian dollar. The following table provides more information on our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk at December 31, 2005 and 2004. (millions of U.S. dollars) 2005 2004 Fair value of net assets denominated in foreign currencies $ 995 $ 1,555 Percentage of fair value of total net assets 8.4% 15.8% Pre tax impact of hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of U.S. dollar $ 90 $ 141 
 
