Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For the years ended December 31, (in millions of U.S. dollars, except share, per share data andselected data) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Operations data: Net premiums earned $ 11,825 $ 11,748 $ 11,110 $ 9,727 $ 6,904 Net investment income 1,601 1,264 1,013 900 812 Net realized gains (losses) (98 ) 76 197 265 (489 ) Losses and loss expenses 7,070 8,571 7,690 6,167 4,973 Life and annuity benefits 123 143 175 182 158 Policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses 3,171 2,924 2,824 2,539 1,879 Interest expense 176 174 183 177 193 Other (income) expense (35 ) (25 ) 9 34 36 Income tax expense (benefit) 522 273 286 311 (112 ) Income before cumulative effect 2,301 1,028 1,153 1,482 100 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income tax) 4 Net income 2,305 1,028 1,153 1,482 100 Dividends on Preferred Shares (45 ) (45 ) (45 ) (26 ) Dividends on Mezzanine equity (10 ) (26 ) Net income available to holders of Ordinary Shares $ 2,260 $ 983 $ 1,108 $ 1,446 $ 74 Diluted earnings per share before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle(1) $ 6.90 $ 3.31 $ 3.88 $ 5.25 $ 0.27 Diluted earnings per share(1) $ 6.91 $ 3.31 $ 3.88 $ 5.25 $ 0.27 Balance sheet data (at end of period): Total investments $ 36,601 $ 31,842 $ 26,925 $ 22,555 $ 17,555 Cash 565 512 498 559 661 Total assets 67,135 62,440 56,183 49,317 43,874 Net unpaid losses and loss expenses 22,008 20,458 17,517 14,674 11,988 Net future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts 508 510 494 477 433 Long term debt 1,560 1,811 1,849 1,349 1,749 Trust preferred securities 309 309 412 475 475 Total liabilities 52,857 50,628 46,338 40,494 37,292 Mezzanine equity 311 Shareholders equity 14,278 11,812 9,845 8,823 6,271 Book value per share $ 42.03 $ 34.81 $ 32.65 $ 29.53 $ 23.87 Selected data Loss and loss expense ratio(2) 61.2% 74.5% 70.7% 64.6% 73.7% Underwriting and administrative expense ratio(3) 26.9% 25.0% 25.6% 26.4% 27.5% Combined ratio(4) 88.1% 99.5% 96.3% 91.0% 101.2% Net loss reserves to capital and surplus ratio(5) 157.7% 177.5% 182.9% 171.7% 198.1% Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 327,232,022 297,299,883 285,485,472 275,655,969 269,870,023 Cash dividends per share $ 0.98 $ 0.90 $ 0.82 $ 0.74 $ 0.66 (1) Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income available to holders of Ordinary Shares by weighted average shares outstanding diluted. (2) The loss and loss expense ratio is calculated by dividing the losses and loss expenses by net premiums earned excluding life insurance and reinsurance premiums. Net premiums earned for life insurance and reinsurance were $274 million, $248 million, $226 million, $187 million, and $158 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. (3) The underwriting and administrative expense ratio is calculated by dividing the policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses by net premiums earned excluding life insurance and reinsurance premiums. (4) The combined ratio is the sum of the loss and loss expense ratio and the underwriting and administrative expense ratio. (5) The net loss reserves to capital and surplus ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of the net unpaid losses and loss expenses and net future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts by shareholders equity. 35 Table of Contents ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity and capital resources as of and for the year ended December 31, 2006. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes presented on pages F 1 to F 72 of this Form 10 K. Overview ACE Limited (ACE) is a Bermuda based holding company incorporated with limited liability under the Cayman Islands Companies Law. ACE and its direct and indirect subsidiaries are a global property and casualty insurance and reinsurance organization, servicing the insurance needs of commercial and individual customers in more than 140 countries and jurisdictions. Our product and geographic diversification differentiates us from the vast majority of our competitors and has been a source of stability during periods of industry volatility. Our long term business strategy focuses on sustained growth in book value achieved through a combination of underwriting and investment income. By doing so, we provide value to our clients and shareholders through the utilization of our substantial capital base in the insurance and reinsurance markets. Our senior management team is well seasoned in the insurance industry and its attention to operational efficiency, maintaining balance sheet strength, and enforcing strong underwriting and financial discipline across the whole organization has laid the foundation for sustained earnings and book value growth. We are organized along a profit center structure by line of business and territory that does not necessarily correspond to corporate legal entities. Profit centers can access various legal entities, subject to licensing and other regulatory rules. Profit centers are expected to generate an underwriting income and appropriate risk adjusted returns. This corporate structure has facilitated the development of management talent by giving each profit centers senior management team the necessary autonomy within underwriting authorities to make operating decisions and create products and coverages needed by its target customer base. We are an underwriting organization and senior management is focused on delivering underwriting profit. We strive to achieve underwriting income by only writing policies which we believe adequately compensate us for the risk we accept. We will not sacrifice underwriting income for growth. Distinction in service is an additional area of focus and a means to set us apart from our competition. As an insurance and reinsurance company, we generate gross revenues from two principal sources: premiums and investment income. Cash flow is generated from premiums collected and investment income received less paid losses and loss expenses, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses. Invested assets are generally held in liquid, investment grade fixed income securities of relatively short duration. We invest in equity securities in the U.S. and international markets. A small portion of our assets are held in less liquid or higher risk assets in an attempt to achieve higher risk adjusted returns. Claims payments in any short term period are highly unpredictable due to the random nature of loss events and the timing of claims awards or settlements. The value of investments held to pay future claims is subject to market forces such as the level of interest rates, stock market volatility and credit events such as corporate defaults. The actual cost of claims is also volatile based on loss trends, inflation rates, court awards and catastrophes. We believe that our cash balances, our highly liquid investments, credit facilities and reinsurance protection provide sufficient liquidity to meet any unforeseen claim demands that might occur in the year ahead. The insurance industry is highly competitive, with many companies offering similar coverage. The rates, terms and conditions related to the products we offer have historically changed depending on the timing of the insurance cycle. During periods of excess underwriting capacity, as defined by availability of capital, competition can result in lower pricing and less favorable terms and conditions. During periods of reduced underwriting capacity, pricing and terms and conditions are generally more favorable. Industry losses from natural catastrophes were comparatively low in 2006. During 2005 and 2004, the insurance industry experienced unprecedented natural catastrophe losses primarily from severe hurricane activity. We incurred net pre tax catastrophe losses of $17 million in 2006, compared with $1.3 billion and $510 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. We believe that major hurricanes like Hurricane Katrina will increase in frequency and have adjusted the models we use to measure catastrophe risk to reflect this, which in turn led to an adjustment in the prices we charge. We also enacted a series of internal risk management activities as set forth by our Enterprise Risk Management Committee to temper the amount of catastrophe risk we will assume. In the U.S., state governments responsibility to approve rates insurers charge for certain catastrophe coverages is undermined by populist political pressure to 36 Table of Contents disallow rate increases, thereby distorting the true economic costs that should be borne by those living and working in catastrophe prone areas and forcing insurers to exit markets or restrict coverage. Insurance Industry Investigations and Related Matters Information on the insurance industry investigations and related matters is set forth in Note 12 f) to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements include amounts that, either by their nature or due to requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), are determined using best estimates and assumptions. While we believe that the amounts included in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect our best judgment, actual amounts could ultimately materially differ from those currently presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe the items that require the most subjective and complex estimates are: unpaid loss and loss expense reserves, including asbestos and environmental reserves (A&E); reinsurance recoverable, including our provision for uncollectible reinsurance; impairments to the carrying value of our investment portfolio; the valuation of deferred tax assets; the fair value of certain derivatives; the valuation of goodwill; and assessment of risk transfer for certain structured insurance and reinsurance contracts. We believe our accounting policies for these items are of critical importance to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion provides more information regarding the estimates and assumptions required to arrive at these amounts and should be read in conjunction with the sections entitled: Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities, Reinsurance, Investments, Net Realized Gains (Losses) and Other Income and Expense Items. Unpaid losses and loss expenses As an insurance and reinsurance company, we are required, by applicable laws and regulations and U.S. GAAP, to establish loss and loss expense reserves for the estimated unpaid portion of the ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses under the terms of our policies and agreements with our insured and reinsured customers. The estimate of the liabilities includes provision for claims that have been reported but unpaid at the balance sheet date (case reserves) and for future obligations from claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR) at the balance sheet date (IBNR may also include a provision for additional development on reported claims in instances where the case reserve is viewed to be insufficient). The loss reserve also includes an estimate of expenses associated with processing and settling these unpaid claims (loss expenses). At December 31, 2006, our unpaid loss and loss expense reserves were $35.5 billion. With the exception of certain structured settlements, for which the timing and amount of future claim payments are reliably determinable, our loss reserves are not discounted for time value. In connection with such structured settlements, we carry reserves of $118 million (net of discount). The table below presents a roll forward of our unpaid losses and loss expenses for the indicated periods. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Losses ReinsuranceRecoverable NetLosses Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 31,483 $ 13,966 $ 17,517 Losses and loss expenses incurred 13,319 4,748 8,571 Losses and loss expenses paid (8,745) (3,376) (5,369) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) (1,002) (741) (261) Balance at December 31, 2005 35,055 14,597 20,458 Losses and loss expenses incurred 9,902 2,832 7,070 Losses and loss expenses paid (9,230) (3,771) (5,459) Sale of certain run off reinsurance subsidiaries (789) (317) (472) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) 579 168 411 Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 35,517 $ 13,509 $ 22,008 37 Table of Contents The process of establishing loss reserves for property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments based on circumstances known at the date of accrual. The following table shows our total reserves segregated between case reserves and IBNR reserves at December 31, 2006 and 2005. December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Case reserves $ 15,592 $ 6,135 $ 9,457 $ 15,422 $ 5,889 $ 9,533 IBNR 19,925 7,374 12,551 19,633 8,708 10,925 Total $ 35,517 $ 13,509 $ 22,008 $ 35,055 $ 14,597 $ 20,458 The following table segregates the loss reserves by components including property and all other, casualty and personal accident (A&H) at December 31, 2006 and 2005. In the table below, loss expenses are defined to include unallocated loss adjustment expenses and allocated loss adjustment expenses. For certain lines, in particular ACE International products, loss adjustment expenses are included in IBNR and not broken out separately. December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Property and all other Case reserves $ 3,137 $ 1,306 $ 1,831 $ 2,961 $ 952 $ 2,009 Loss expenses 167 34 133 157 23 134 IBNR 2,509 979 1,530 3,120 1,701 1,419 Subtotal 5,813 2,319 3,494 6,238 2,676 3,562 Casualty Case reserves 8,889 3,255 5,634 9,581 3,697 5,884 Loss expenses 3,023 1,469 1,554 2,368 1,152 1,216 IBNR 16,926 6,268 10,658 16,054 6,814 9,240 Subtotal 28,838 10,992 17,846 28,003 11,663 16,340 A&H Case reserves 351 69 282 335 65 270 Loss expenses 25 2 23 20 20 IBNR 490 127 363 459 193 266 Subtotal 866 198 668 814 258 556 Total Case reserves 12,377 4,630 7,747 12,877 4,714 8,163 Loss expenses 3,215 1,505 1,710 2,545 1,175 1,370 IBNR 19,925 7,374 12,551 19,633 8,708 10,925 Total $ 35,517 $ 13,509 $ 22,008 $ 35,055 $ 14,597 $ 20,458 The judgments used to estimate unpaid loss and loss expense reserves require different considerations depending upon the individual circumstances underlying the insured loss. For example, the reserves established for an excess casualty claim, asbestos and environmental claims, losses from major catastrophic events or the IBNR for product lines will each require different assumptions and judgments to be made. Necessary judgments are based on numerous factors, and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methodologies are developed or as current laws change. Hence, ultimate loss payments will differ from the estimate of the ultimate liability made at the balance sheet date. Changes to our previous estimates of prior year loss reserves can impact the reported calendar year underwriting results by worsening our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be deficient or improving our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be redundant. The potential for variation in loss reserves is impacted by numerous factors, which we explain below. We establish loss and loss expense reserves to cover our liabilities from claims for all of the insurance and reinsurance business that we write. For those claims reported by insureds or ceding companies to the Company prior 38 Table of Contents to the balance sheet date, case reserves are established by claims personnel as appropriate based on the circumstances of the claim(s), standard claim handling practices and professional judgment. In respect of those claims that have been incurred but not reported prior to the balance sheet date, there is by definition limited actual information to form the reserve estimate and reliance is placed upon historical loss experience and actuarial methods to project the ultimate loss obligations and the corresponding amount of IBNR. Furthermore, for our assumed reinsurance operation, Global Reinsurance, an additional case reserve may sometimes be established above the amount notified by the ceding company if the notified case reserve is judged to be insufficient by Global Reinsurances claims department (refer to Assumed Reinsurance, below). We have actuarial staff within each of our operating segments who analyze loss reserves and regularly project estimates of ultimate losses and the required IBNR reserve. IBNR reserve estimates are generally calculated by first projecting the ultimate amount of expected claims for a product line and subtracting paid losses and case reserves for reported claims. The judgments involved in projecting the ultimate losses may involve the use and interpretation of various actuarial projection methods as well as more qualitative factors that may impact the ultimate value of the losses such as actual loss experience, loss development patterns, and industry data. In addition, since standard actuarial projection methods place reliance on the extrapolation of historical data and patterns, the estimate of the IBNR reserve also requires judgment by actuaries and management to consider the impact from more contemporary and subjective factors. Amongst some of the factors that might be considered are changes in business mix or volume, changes in ceded reinsurance structures, reported and projected loss trends, inflation, legal environment and the terms and conditions of the contracts sold to our insured parties. Typically for each product line, one or more standard actuarial reserving methods may be used to estimate ultimate losses and loss expenses and from these estimates a single point estimate is selected. Exceptions to the use of standard actuarial projection methods occur for individual claims of significance that require complex legal, claims and actuarial analysis and judgment (for example, A&E account projections or high excess casualty accounts in litigation). In addition, claims arising from catastrophic events require evaluation based upon our exposure at the time of the event and the circumstances of the catastrophe and its post event impact that do not utilize standard actuarial loss projection methods. The standard actuarial reserving methods may include, but are not necessarily limited to, paid and reported loss development, expected loss ratio and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. A general description of these methods is provided below. In addition, we may use other recognized actuarial methods and approaches depending upon the product line characteristics and available data. The historical loss and premium data required for these projections should be sufficiently homogenous such that the projections of future loss emergence from historical loss development patterns are representative of the underlying business. For example, to improve data homogeneity, we may group product line data further by similar risk attribute (for example, geography, coverage such as property versus liability exposure or origin year), project losses for these homogenous groups and then combine these results to provide the overall product line estimate. The premium and loss data is aggregated by origin year (e.g., the year in which the losses were incurred or accident year) and annual or quarterly periods subsequent to the origin year. Implicit in the standard accepted actuarial methodologies that we generally utilize is the need for two fundamental assumptions: first, the expected loss ratio for each origin year (i.e., accident, report or underwriting) and second, the pattern in which losses are expected to emerge over time for each origin year. The expected loss ratio for any particular origin year is selected giving consideration to a number of potential factors including historical loss ratios adjusted for intervening premium and loss trends, industry benchmarks, the results of policy level loss modeling at the time of underwriting and other more subjective considerations of the product line and external environment as noted above. For the more recent origin years, the expected loss ratio for a given origin year is established at the start of the origin year as part of the planning process, this analysis is performed in conjunction with underwriters and management. The expected loss ratio method arrives at an ultimate loss estimate by taking this estimate of the initial expected ultimate loss ratio and multiplying by the corresponding premium base. This method is most commonly used for immature origin periods on product lines where the actual paid or reported loss experience is not yet credible enough to override our initial expectations of the ultimate loss ratio. In addition, the expected loss ratio may be modified should underlying assumptions such as loss trend or premium rate changes differ from the original assumptions, even if no credible loss experience has emerged. Our assumed paid and reported development patterns provide a benchmark against which the actual emerging loss experience can be monitored. Where possible, development patterns are selected based on historical loss 39 Table of Contents emergence by origin year with appropriate allowance for changes in business mix, claims handling process or ceded reinsurance that are likely to lead to a discernible difference between the rate of historical and future loss emergence. For product lines where the historical data is viewed to have low statistical credibility, the selected development patterns will also reflect relevant industry benchmarks and or experience from similar product lines written elsewhere in the Company. This typically arises for product lines that are relatively immature or high severity/low frequency portfolios and for which our historical experience exhibits considerable volatility and or lacks credibility. The paid and reported loss development methods convert the assumed loss emergence pattern to a set of multiplicative factors which are then applied to actual paid or reported losses to arrive at an estimate of ultimate losses for each period. Due to their multiplicative nature, the paid and reported loss development methods magnify deviations between actual and expected loss emergence. Therefore, these methods tend to be favored for more mature origin periods and for those portfolios where the loss emergence has been relatively consistent over time. The Bornhuetter Ferguson method is essentially a combination of the expected loss ratio method and the loss development method, under which the loss development method is given more weight as the origin year matures. This approach allows a logical transition between the expected loss ratio method which is generally utilized at earlier maturities and the loss development methods which are favored at latter maturities. We usually apply this method using reported loss data. The applicability of reserve methods will also be determined by the attachment point of the policy or contract with the insured or ceding company. In the case of low attachment points typical of primary or working layer reinsurance, the experience will tend to be more frequency driven. These product types allow for the standard actuarial methods to be used in determining loss reserve levels, as it is often customary to have the appropriate historical record and volume of claims experience to rely upon. In the case of high attachment points typical of excess or excess of loss reinsurance, the experience will tend to be severity driven, as only a loss of significant size will enter the layer. For structured or unique contracts, most common to the financial solutions business and, to a lesser extent, our reinsurance business, the standard actuarial methods need to be tempered with an analysis of each contracts terms, original pricing information, subsequent internal and external analyses of the ongoing contracts, market exposures and history, and qualitative input from claims managers. Our recorded reserves represent managements best estimate of the provision for future unpaid claims. Each product line has an actuarial reserve review performed and a provisional best estimate is established at the reviews conclusion. The process to select the provisional best estimate, when more than one estimate is available, may differ across product lines. However, the objective of such a process is to determine a single best estimate that we believe represents a better estimate than any other. Such an estimate is viewed to support the most likely outcome of ultimate loss settlements and is determined based on several factors including, but not limited to: segmentation of data to provide sufficient homogeneity and credibility for loss projection methods; extent of internal historical loss data, and industry where required; historical variability of loss estimates compared with actual loss experience; and nature and extent of underlying assumptions. Depending on the facts and circumstances of each product line, the determination of a single best estimate may be accomplished by selecting a single point estimate when one estimate is determined to reflect a better estimate than the other point estimates or using a probability weighted average approach when more than one estimate is viewed to be reasonable. For example, an actuary may base the selected estimate on loss projections developed using an incurred loss development approach instead of a paid loss development approach as the best estimate when reported losses are viewed to be a more credible indication of the ultimate loss compared with paid losses. The availability of estimates by different projection techniques will depend upon the product line, the underwriting circumstances and the maturity of the loss emergence. For a well established product line with sufficient volume and history, the selected best estimate may be drawn from a weighting of paid and reported loss development and or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. However, for a new long tailed product line with limited Company data and experience, the emerging loss experience will unlikely have sufficient stability to allow selection of loss development or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and reliance will be placed upon the initial expected loss ratio method as the selected best estimate until the experience matures. The actuaries evaluation process to determine a best estimate involves collaboration with underwriting, claims, legal and finance departments and culminates with the input of reserve committees. Each business unit reserve committee includes the participation of the relevant parties from actuarial, finance, claims and executive management and has the responsibility for finalizing and approving the point estimate to be used as our best estimate. Reserves are further 40 Table of Contents reviewed by ACEs Chief Actuary and senior management. Management does not build in any specific provision for uncertainty in addition to the actuaries best estimate in establishing reserves. We do not calculate a range of loss reserve estimates for our individual loss reserve studies. In particular, ranges are not necessarily a true reflection of the potential volatility between loss reserves estimated at the balance sheet date and the ultimate settlement value of losses. This is due to the fact that an actuarial range is developed based on known events as of the valuation date whereas actual volatility or prior period development has historically been reported in subsequent Consolidated Financial Statements, in part from events and circumstances that were unknown as of the original valuation date. While we believe that our recorded reserves are reasonable and represent managements best estimate for each individual study as of the current valuation date, future changes to our view of the ultimate liabilities are possible. If the past is any indication of the future and using recent actual claims emergence excluding A&E, we estimate that our carried loss reserves at December 31, 2006, are unlikely to differ from the ultimate settlement of these liabilities by more than ten percent of the currently recorded amounts, either positively or negatively. Historically, including A&E reserve charges, our reserves have developed in excess of ten percent of recorded amounts. Refer to Analysis of Losses and Loss Expense Development, under Item 1 for a summary of historical volatility between estimated loss reserves and ultimate loss settlements. We perform internal loss reserve studies for all product lines at least once a year; the timing of such studies varies throughout the year. External loss reserve studies are performed periodically and compared to our internal results. Additionally, for each product line, we review each quarter the emergence of actual losses relative to expectations used in reserving. If warranted from findings in loss emergence tests, we will accelerate the timing of our product line reserve studies. The time period between the date of loss occurrence and the final payment date of the ensuing claim(s) is referred to as the claim tail. The following is a discussion of specific reserving considerations for both short tail and long tail product lines. In this section we reference the nature of recent prior period development to give a high level understanding of how these considerations translate through the reserving process into financial decisions. Refer to Segment Operating Results for more information on prior period development. Short tail business Short tail business describes product lines for which losses are usually known and paid shortly after the loss actually occurs. This would include, for example, most property, personal accident, aviation hull and automobile physical damage policies that are written. Due to the short reporting development pattern for these product lines, our estimate of ultimate losses from any particular accident period responds quickly to the latest loss data. We will typically assign credibility to methods that incorporate actual loss emergence, such as the paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, sooner than would be the case for long tail lines at a similar stage of development from the origin year. The reserving process for short tail losses arising from catastrophic events typically involves the determination by the claims department, in conjunction with underwriters and actuaries, of our exposure and likely losses immediately following an event and the subsequent regular refinement of those losses as our insureds provide updated actual loss information. For short tail lines, the bulk of prior period development movements made in the 2006 calendar year related to the 2005 accident year. Specifically, the Insurance North American and Global Reinsurance segments experienced adverse development related to 2005 catastrophes and the Insurance Overseas General segment experienced favorable development due to lower than anticipated loss emergence during 2006. In both instances, these prior period movements were primarily the result of changes to the ultimate loss estimates for the 2005 accident year to better reflect the latest reported loss data rather than any changes to underlying actuarial assumptions. Long tail business Long tail business describes lines of business for which specific losses may not be known for some period and claims can take significant time to emerge. This includes most casualty lines such as general liability, directors and officers liability (D&O) and workers compensation. There are many factors contributing to the uncertainty and volatility of long tail business. Among these are: Given the recent expansion of this business, our historical loss data and experience is often too immature to place reliance upon for reserving purposes. Instead, particularly for newer lines of business, reserve methods are based on industry loss ratios or industry benchmark development patterns that are anticipated to reflect the nature and coverage of the underwritten business and its future development. For new or growing lines of business, actual loss 41 Table of Contents experience is apt to differ from industry loss statistics that are based on averages as well as loss experience of previous underwriting years; The inherent uncertainty of the estimated duration of the paid and reporting loss development patterns beyond the historical record requires that professional judgment be used in the determination of the length of the patterns based on the historical data and other information; The inherent uncertainty of assuming historical paid and reporting loss development patterns on older origin years will be representative of subsequent loss emergence on newer origin years. For example, changes in establishing case reserves can distort reported loss development patterns or changes in ceded reinsurance structures by origin year can distort the development of paid and reported losses; The possibility of future litigation, legislative or judicial change that might impact future loss experience relative to prior loss experience relied upon in loss reserve analyses; Loss reserve analyses typically require loss or other data be grouped by common characteristics in some manner. If data from two combined lines of business exhibit different characteristics, such as loss payment patterns, the credibility of the reserve estimate could be affected. Additionally, since casualty lines of business can have significant intricacies in the terms and conditions afforded to the insured, there is an inherent risk as to the homogeneity of the underlying data used in performing reserve analyses. The applicability of the price change data used to estimate ultimate loss ratios for most recent origin years. In contrast to short tail lines, the prior period development in 2006 for long tail lines of business arose across a number of accident years in the Insurance North American and Insurance Overseas General segments, typically more removed from the recent accident years. The movements were generally the result of actual loss emergence within the 2006 calendar year that differed materially from the expected loss emergence and these deviations were significant enough in certain product lines to warrant revising the projections. However, for a number of long tail portfolios, to the extent that actual loss emergence in calendar year 2006 differed from our expectation in the more recent origin years, the deviation was not seen as sufficiently credible to alter either our ultimate loss selections or the set of actuarial assumptions underlying the reserving review for that particular portfolio. Such judgments were made with due consideration to the factors impacting reserve uncertainty as discussed above. We continually evaluate our reserve estimates taking into account current information. We estimate the ultimate loss amounts by projecting losses as of the valuation date using loss development patterns derived from historical data. In addition, a tail factor is applied to the projected loss amount to reflect further potential development beyond the period of historical record. While we believe our reserve for unpaid losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2006, is adequate, new information or trends, such as judicial action broadening the scope of coverage or expanding liability, may lead to future developments in ultimate losses and loss expenses significantly greater or less than the reserve provided, which could have a material adverse effect on future operating results. Particularly significant variables for which a change in assumption could have a material effect on unpaid losses and loss expenses include, but are not limited to, the items discussed above. As noted previously, our best estimate of required loss reserves for most portfolios is judgmentally selected for each origin year after considering the results from any number of reserving methodologies rather than being a purely mechanical process. Therefore, it is difficult to convey, in a simple and quantitative manner, the impact that a change to a single assumption will have on our best estimate. In the examples shown below, we attempt to give an indication of the potential impact by isolating a single change for a specific reserving method that would be pertinent in establishing the best estimate for the product line described. We consider each of the following sensitivity analyses to represent a reasonably likely deviation in the underlying assumption. Insurance North American Given the long reporting and paid development pattern, the tail factors used to project actual current losses to ultimate losses for claims covered by our inactive middle market workers compensation business requires considerable judgment that could be material to consolidated loss and loss expense reserves. Specifically, when applying the paid loss development method, a one percent change in the tail factor (i.e., 1.04 changed to either 1.05 or 1.03) would cause a change of approximately $50 million, either positively or negatively, for the projected net loss and loss expense reserves. This is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $300 million. Our ACE Bermuda operations write predominantly high excess liability coverage on an occurrence first reported basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $300 million and limits of $100 million gross or less) and D&O and other professional liability coverage on a claims made basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $100 million 42 Table of Contents and limits of $50 million gross or less). Claims development for this business can vary significantly for individual claims and historically could vary by as much as $50 million per claim for professional liability and $100 million per claim for excess liability depending on the nature of the loss. Insurance Overseas General Certain long tail lines, such as casualty and professional lines, are particularly susceptible to changes in loss trend and claim inflation. Heightened perceptions of tort and settlement awards around the world are increasing the demand for these products as well as contributing to the uncertainty of the reserving estimates. Our reserving methods rely heavily on loss development patterns estimated from historical data and while we attempt to adjust such factors for known changes in the current tort environment, it is possible that such factors may not entirely reflect all recent trends in tort environments. For example, when applying the reported loss development method, the lengthening by six months of our selected loss development patterns would increase reserve estimates on long tail casualty and professional lines by approximately $240 million. This movement is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $3.0 billion. Global Reinsurance Typically, there is inherent uncertainty around the length of paid and reporting development patterns, especially for certain casualty lines such as excess workers compensation or general liability, which may take up to 30 years to fully develop. This uncertainty is accentuated by the need to supplement client development patterns with industry development patterns as justified by the credibility of the data. The underlying source and selection of the final development pattern can thus have a significant impact on the selected net losses and loss expenses ultimate. For example, a twenty percent slowing or quickening (shortening or lengthening as above) of the development patterns used for U.S. long tail lines would cause the loss reserve estimate derived by the reported Bornhuetter Ferguson method for these lines to change by approximately $115 million. This movement is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $1.4 billion. Assumed Reinsurance At December 31, 2006, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.6 billion, consisting of $778 million of case reserves and $1.8 billion of IBNR. In comparison, at December 31, 2005, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.4 billion, consisting of $790 million of case reserves and $1.6 billion of IBNR. Prior to 2000, our reinsurance operations had been concentrated in the property catastrophe reinsurance market. For catastrophe business, we principally estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses on an event basis by considering various sources of information, including specific loss estimates reported by our cedants, ceding company and overall industry loss estimates reported by our brokers, and our internal data regarding reinsured exposures related to the geographical location of the event. Our internal data analysis enables us to establish catastrophe reserves for known events with more certainty at an earlier date than would be the case if we solely relied on reports from third parties to determine carried reserves. In 2000, we began writing casualty lines of reinsurance in the United States, and to a lesser extent, Europe, Asia, and Australia. Given the long tail nature of this business, these new lines have both increased the amount of reserves in the Global Reinsurance segment as well as the uncertainty in the loss estimation process. For our casualty reinsurance business, we generally rely on ceding companies to report claims and then use that data as a key input to estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses. Due to the reliance on claims information reported by ceding companies, as well as other factors, the estimation of unpaid losses and loss expenses for assumed reinsurance includes certain risks and uncertainties that are unique relative to our direct insurance business. These include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: The reported claims information could be inaccurate; Typically, a lag exists between the reporting of a loss event to a ceding company and its reporting to us as a reinsurance claim. The use of a broker to transmit financial information from a ceding company to us increases the reporting lag. Because most of our reinsurance business is produced by brokers, ceding companies generally first submit claim and other financial information to brokers, who then report the proportionate share of such information to each reinsurer of a particular treaty. The reporting lag generally results in a longer period of time between the date a claim is incurred and the date a claim is reported compared with direct insurance operations. Therefore, the risk of 43 Table of Contents delayed recognition of loss reserve development is higher for assumed reinsurance than for direct insurance lines; The historical claims data for a particular reinsurance contract can be limited relative to our insurance business in that there may be less historical information available. Furthermore, for certain coverages provided by products, such as excess of loss contracts, there may be relatively few expected claims in a particular year so the actual number of claims may be susceptible to significant variability. In such cases, the actuary often relies on industry data from several recognized sources. We mitigate the above risks in several ways. In addition to routine analytical reviews of ceding company reports to ensure reported claims information appears reasonable, we perform regular underwriting and claims audits of certain ceding companies to ensure reported claims information is accurate, complete, and timely. As appropriate, audit findings are used to adjust claims in the reserving process. We also use our knowledge of the historical development of losses from individual ceding companies to adjust the level of adequacy we believe exists in the reported ceded losses. On occasion, there will be differences between our carried loss reserves and unearned premiums reserves and the amount of loss reserves and unearned premiums reserves reported by the ceding companies. This is due to the fact that we receive consistent and timely information from ceding companies only with respect to case reserves. For IBNR, we use historical experience and other statistical information, depending on the type of business, to estimate the ultimate loss (see Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses for more information). We estimate our unearned premiums reserve by applying estimated earning patterns to net premiums written for each treaty based upon that treatys coverage basis (i.e., risks attaching or losses occurring). At December 31, 2006, the case reserves reported to us by our ceding companies were $754 million, compared with the $778 million we recorded. Our policy is to post additional case reserves in addition to the amounts reported by our cedants when our evaluation of the ultimate value of a reported claim is different than the evaluation of that claim by our cedant. Within the Insurance North American segment, we also have exposure to certain liability reinsurance lines that have been in run off since 1994. Unpaid losses and loss expenses relating to this run off reinsurance business resides within the Brandywine Division of our Insurance North American segment. Most of the remaining unpaid losses and loss expense reserves for the run off reinsurance business relate to asbestos and environmental claims. (Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information.) Asbestos and Environmental Reserves Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are liabilities for asbestos and environmental claims and expenses (A&E). These claims are principally related to claims arising from remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites and bodily injury claims related to exposure to asbestos products and environmental hazards. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to the recent legal environment, including specific settlements that may be used as precedents to settle future claims. Our A&E reserves and our range of estimates are not discounted and do not reflect any anticipated changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. Accordingly, our A&E reserves make no allowance for future state or federal asbestos reforms, such as those currently being contemplated. During 2006, we conducted an internal, ground up review of our consolidated A&E liabilities as of June 30, 2006. During the same period, a team of external actuaries performed an evaluation as to the adequacy of the reserves of Century and those liabilities of ACE American Reinsurance Company (ACE American Re) retained and not sold. The Century external review was conducted in accordance with the Brandywine Restructuring Order, which requires that an external actuarial review of Centurys reserves be completed every two years. As a result of the internal review, we concluded that our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations were adequate and, therefore, no change to the carried net reserve was required, while the gross loss reserves increased by approximately $250 million. The conclusions of the external review provided estimates of ultimate gross and net Brandywine liabilities that are lower than the same study in 2004. As a result, the difference in net loss reserves between the internal and external studies has narrowed to approximately $150 million ($100 million after tax) from $300 million ($180 million after tax in 2004). There are many complex variables that we consider when estimating the reserves for our inventory of asbestos accounts and these variables may directly impact the predicted outcome. We believe the most significant variables relating to our A&E reserves include assumptions regarding trends with respect to claim severity and the frequency of higher severity claims, the ability of a claimant to bring a claim in a state in which they have no residency or exposure, the ability of a policyholder to claim the right to non products coverage, whether high level excess policies have the potential to be accessed given the policyholders claim trends and liability situation, and payments to unimpaired claimants and the potential liability of peripheral defendants. Based on the policies, the facts, the law and a careful 44 Table of Contents analysis of the impact that these factors will likely have on any given account, we estimate the potential liability for indemnity, policyholder defense costs and coverage litigation expense. The results in asbestos cases announced by other carriers may well have little or no relevance to us because coverage exposures are highly dependent upon the specific facts of individual coverage and resolution status of disputes among carrier, policyholder and claimants. Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information. Reinsurance recoverable Reinsurance recoverable includes the balances due to us from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses, and is presented net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is determined based upon a review of the financial condition of the reinsurers and other factors. We determine the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses using actuarial estimates as well as a determination of our ability to cede unpaid losses and loss expenses under existing reinsurance contracts. The recognition of a reinsurance recoverable asset requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves our estimation based on the amount of gross reserves and the percentage of that amount which may be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR, which is a major component of the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, is generally developed as part of our loss reserving process and consequently, its estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross IBNR (refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses). The second judgment involves our estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that we may ultimately be unable to recover from reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable asset and, in turn, shareholders equity. Changes in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance are reflected in net income. Although the contractual obligation of individual reinsurers to pay their reinsurance obligations is based on specific contract provisions, the collectability of such amounts requires estimation by management. The majority of the balance we have accrued as recoverable will not be due for collection until sometime in the future, in some cases several decades from now. Over this period of time, economic conditions and operational performance of a particular reinsurer may impact their ability to meet these obligations and while they may continue to acknowledge their contractual obligation to do so, they may not have the financial resources or willingness to fully meet their obligation to us. To estimate the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, the reinsurance recoverable must first be determined for each reinsurer. This determination is based on a process rather than an estimate, although an element of judgment must be applied. As part of the process, ceded IBNR is allocated to reinsurance contracts because ceded IBNR is not generally calculated on a contract by contract basis. The allocations are generally based on premiums ceded under reinsurance contracts, adjusted for actual loss experience and historical relationships between gross and ceded losses. If actual experience varies materially from historical experience, including that used to determine ceded premium, the allocation of reinsurance recoverable by reinsurer will change. While such change is unlikely to result in a large percentage change in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, it could, nevertheless, have a material effect on our net income in the period recorded. Generally, we use a default analysis to estimate uncollectible reinsurance. The primary components of the default analysis are reinsurance recoverable balances by reinsurer, net of collateral, and default factors used to estimate the probability that the reinsurer may be unable to meet its future obligations in full. The definition of collateral for this purpose requires some judgment and is generally limited to assets held in an ACE only beneficiary trust, letters of credit, and liabilities held by us with the same legal entity for which we believe there is a right of offset. We do not currently include multi beneficiary trusts. However, we have several reinsurers that have established multi beneficiary trusts for which certain of our companies are beneficiaries. The determination of the default factor is principally based on the financial strength rating of the reinsurer and a corresponding default factor applicable to the financial strength rating. Default factors require considerable judgment and are determined using the current financial strength rating, or rating equivalent, of each reinsurer as well as other key considerations and assumptions. Significant considerations and assumptions include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: For reinsurers that maintain a financial strength rating from a major rating agency, and for which recoverable balances are considered representative of the larger population (i.e., default probabilities are consistent with similarly rated reinsurers and payment durations conform to averages), the judgment exercised by management to determine 45 Table of Contents the provision for uncollectible reinsurance of each reinsurer is typically limited because the financial rating is based on a published source and the default factor we apply is based on a default factor of a major rating agency applicable to the particular rating class. Default factors applied for financial ratings of AAA, AA, A, BBB, BB, B and CCC, are 0.5 percent, 1.2 percent, 1.9 percent, 4.7 percent, 9.6 percent, 23.8 percent and 49.7 percent, respectively. Because the model we use is predicated on the default factors of a major rating agency, we do not generally consider alternative factors. However, when a recoverable is expected to be paid in a brief period of time by a highly rated reinsurer, such as certain property catastrophe claims, a default factor may not be applied; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are both unrated by a major rating agency and for which management is unable to determine a credible rating equivalent based on a parent, affiliate or peer company, we determine a rating equivalent based on an analysis of the reinsurer that considers an assessment of the creditworthiness of the particular entity, industry benchmarks, or other factors as considered appropriate. We then apply the applicable default factor for that rating class. For balances recoverable from unrated reinsurers for which our ceded reserve is below a certain threshold, we generally apply a default factor of 25 percent; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are either insolvent or under regulatory supervision, we establish a default factor and resulting provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on specific facts and circumstances surrounding each company. Upon initial notification of an insolvency, we generally recognize expense for a substantial portion of all balances outstanding, net of collateral, through a combination of write offs of recoverable balances and increases to the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. When regulatory action is taken on a reinsurer, we generally recognize a default factor by estimating an expected recovery on all balances outstanding, net of collateral. When sufficient credible information becomes available, we adjust the provision for uncollectible reinsurance by establishing a default factor pursuant to information received; For captives and other recoverables, management determines the provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on the specific facts and circumstances. The following table summarizes reinsurance recoverables and the provision for uncollectible reinsurance for each type of recoverable balance at December 31, 2006. (in millions of U.S. dollars) TotalReinsuranceRecoverables Recoverables(Net of UsableCollateral) Provision forUncollectibleReinsurance Type Reinsurers with credit ratings $ 11,739 $ 10,971 $ 207 Reinsurers not rated 673 541 229 Reinsurers under supervision and insolvent reinsurers 293 278 197 Captives 1,316 264 2 Other structured settlements and pools 1,208 1,206 14 Total $ 15,229 $ 13,260 $ 649 At December 31, 2006, the use of different assumptions within our approach could have a material effect on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent the creditworthiness of our reinsurers were to deteriorate due to an adverse event affecting the reinsurance industry, such as a large number of major catastrophes, actual uncollectible amounts could be significantly greater than our provision for uncollectible reinsurance. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and our liquidity. Given the various considerations used to estimate our uncollectible provision, we cannot precisely quantify the effect a specific industry event may have on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. However, based on the composition (particularly the average credit quality) of the reinsurance recoverable balance at December 31, 2006, we estimate that a ratings downgrade of one notch for all rated reinsurers (i.e., from A to A or A to BBB+) could increase our provision for uncollectible reinsurance by approximately $170 million or approximately one percent of the reinsurance recoverable balance, assuming no other changes relevant to the calculation. While a ratings downgrade would result in an increase in our provision for uncollectible reinsurance and a charge to earnings in that period, a downgrade in and of itself does not imply that we will not ultimately collect all of the ceded reinsurance recoverable from the reinsurers in question. Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 46 Table of Contents Investments Our fixed maturity investments are classified as either available for sale or held to maturity. Our available for sale portfolio is reported at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in shareholders equity as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Fair value is determined using the quoted market price of these securities provided by either independent pricing services, or when such prices are not available, by reference to broker or underwriter bid indications. We regularly review our impaired investments (i.e., those debt securities in which fair value is below amortized cost or those equity securities in which fair value is below cost) for a possible other than temporary impairment. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record the decline as an unrealized loss in our shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the book value of the investment and record a realized loss in our consolidated statement of operations. An impairment is considered other than temporary unless we have the ability and intent to hold the investment to recovery of the cost of the investment, and evidence indicating the cost of the investment is recoverable within a reasonable period outweighs evidence to the contrary. The determination as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary principally requires the following critical judgments: i) the circumstances that require management to make a specific assessment as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary, such as the time period an investment has been in a loss position and the significance of the decline; and ii) for those securities to be assessed, whether we have the ability and intent to hold the security through an expected recovery period, absent a significant change in facts that would be expected to have a material adverse effect on either the financial markets or the financial position of the issuer. With respect to securities where the decline in value is determined to be temporary and the securitys value is not written down, a subsequent decision may be made to sell that security and realize a loss. Subsequent decisions on security sales could be made based on changes in liquidity needs (i.e., arising from a large insured loss such as a catastrophe), internal risk management considerations, the financial condition of the issuer or its industry, market conditions, and new investment opportunities. Day to day management of the majority of our investment portfolio is outsourced to third party investment managers. While these investment managers may, at a given point in time, believe that the preferred course of action is to hold securities with unrealized losses until such losses are recovered, the dynamic nature of portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell the security and realize the loss based upon new circumstances such as those related to the changes described above. We believe that subsequent decisions to sell such securities are consistent with the classification of the majority of our portfolio as available for sale. The gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2006, for all securities in a loss position was $143 million with $25.4 million in an unrealized loss position for over 12 months (of which $24 million related to fixed maturities held to maturity). Our net realized losses in 2006 included write downs of $214 million of which $198 million was related to fixed maturities. This compares with write downs of $88 million and $39 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The impairments recorded in 2006 are primarily due to an increase in market interest rates from the date of security purchase and as such, are not credit related. Because our investment portfolio is the largest component of consolidated assets and a multiple of shareholders equity, adverse changes in economic conditions subsequent to the balance sheet date could result in other than temporary impairments that are material to our financial condition and operating results. Such economic changes could arise from overall changes in the financial markets and specific changes to industries, companies, or foreign governments in which we maintain relatively large investment holdings. Further, an increase in interest rates could result in an increased number of fixed maturities for which we cannot support the intent to hold to recovery. More information regarding our process for reviewing our portfolio for possible impairments can be found in the section entitled Net Realized Gains (Losses). Deferred tax assets Many of our insurance businesses operate in income tax paying jurisdictions. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities primarily result from temporary differences between the amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities separately for each tax paying component (an individual entity or group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes) in each tax jurisdiction. At December 31, 2006, our net deferred tax asset was $1.2 billion. (Refer to Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). At each balance sheet date, management assesses the need to establish a valuation allowance that reduces deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that all, or some portion, of the deferred tax 47 Table of Contents assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance is based on all available information including projections of future taxable income from each tax paying component in each tax jurisdiction, principally derived from business plans and available tax planning strategies. Projections of future taxable income incorporate several assumptions of future business and operations that are apt to differ from actual experience. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates that resulted in our forecast of future taxable income for each tax paying component proves to be incorrect, an additional valuation allowance could become necessary. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. At December 31, 2006, the valuation allowance of $35 million (including $24 million with respect to foreign tax credits) reflects managements assessment that it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized due to the inability of certain foreign subsidiaries to generate sufficient taxable income or the inability to utilize foreign tax credits. Derivatives Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (FAS 133) establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. FAS 133 requires that all derivatives be recognized as either assets or liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and be measured at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in net income. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates and equity indices on the fair value of derivatives and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. We do not designate any derivatives as accounting hedges. Our principal participation in derivative instruments is as follows: i) To sell protection to customers as either the writer of a derivative financial instrument or an insurance or reinsurance contract that meets the definition of a derivative. The reinsurance of guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIBs) in our life reinsurance operation is our primary product falling into this category. We believe that the most meaningful presentation of these derivatives is to reflect cash inflows or revenue as net premiums earned, and to record estimates of future cash outflows as incurred losses. When we determine that a future cash payment is probable, we establish reserves for the loss. Other components of fair value are reflected in other assets or other liabilities in the balance sheet and related changes in fair value reflected in net realized gains (losses) in the statement of operations. We generally hold these derivative contracts to maturity. Where we hold a derivative to maturity, the cumulative unrealized gains and losses will net to zero if we incur no losses on that contract. Refer to Note 8 c) to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of this product and related accounting treatment; and ii) To mitigate our financial risks, principally arising from our investment holdings, products sold, or assets and liabilities held in foreign currencies. For these instruments, changes in assets or liabilities measured at fair value are recorded as net realized gains (losses). Derivative instruments used for this purpose include interest rate futures, equity futures, options, interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts entered into primarily to manage duration and foreign currency exposure, enhance our portfolio yield or obtain an exposure to a particular financial market. In addition, as part of our investing activities, we purchase to be announced mortgage backed securities (TBA), which are derivatives. The fair value of derivative instruments depends on a number of factors, including changes in interest rates, changes in equity markets, changes in credit markets and, for GMIB reinsurance, changes in the allocation of the investments underlying annuitant account value. Where available, we use quoted market prices to determine the fair value of these instruments. If the quoted prices are not available, the fair value is estimated using valuation models for each type of instrument. Internal valuation models include the use of management estimates and current market information. These models may be developed by third parties or internally based on market conventions for similar transactions, depending on the circumstances. These models and related assumptions are continuously re evaluated by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon improvements in modeling techniques and availability of more timely market information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the assumptions used in the valuation models to determine the fair value of these derivative products, actual experience may differ from the estimates reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements, and the differences may be material. Fair value adjustments attributed to all our derivative transactions are classified and recorded in our net realized gains (losses). With respect to derivatives sold, we recorded a net realized gain of $7 million and $29 million and a net realized loss of $13 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, the net realized gains 48 Table of Contents included $nil, $18 million and $10 million for GMIB reinsurance, respectively. Refer to Net Realized Gains (Losses) for more information. Goodwill Goodwill, which represents the excess of the cost of our acquisitions over the fair value of net assets we acquired, was $2.7 billion at December 31, 2006. The ACE INA acquisition resulted in approximately 80 percent of this balance. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to a periodic evaluation of impairment. It is our policy to test goodwill as well as other intangible assets for impairments on an annual basis. The impairment tests in 2006, in the aggregate, show a fair value in excess of the carrying value. Goodwill is assigned to applicable reporting units of acquired entities at acquisition. The most significant reporting units are the domestic and international divisions of ACE INA, which were acquired in 1999; ACE Tempest Res catastrophe businesses, acquired in 1996 and 1998; and Tarquin Limited, acquired in 1998. There are other reporting units that resulted from smaller acquisitions that are also assessed annually. In our impairment tests, to estimate the fair value of a reporting unit, we principally use both an earnings model, that considers forecasted earnings and other financial ratios of the reporting unit as well as relevant financial data of comparable companies to the reporting unit such as the relationship of price to earnings for recent transactions and market valuations of publicly traded companies, and an analysis of the present value of estimated net cash flows. We must assess whether the current fair value of our operating units is at least equal to the fair value used in the determination of goodwill. In doing this, we make assumptions and estimates about the profitability attributable to our operating segments, as this is important in assessing whether an impairment has occurred. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates made in assessing the fair value of acquired entities change, goodwill could be materially adjusted. This would cause us to write down the carrying value of goodwill, resulting in a charge to earnings in the period recorded. Accordingly, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period the charge is taken. Risk transfer In the ordinary course of business, we both purchase (or cede), and sell (or assume), P&C reinsurance protection. In 2002, as a matter of policy, we discontinued the purchase of all finite reinsurance contracts. For both ceded and assumed reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met in order to use reinsurance accounting, principally resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract as premiums and losses. If risk transfer requirements are not met, a contract is to be accounted for as a deposit, typically resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. We also apply similar risk transfer requirements to determine whether certain commercial insurance contracts should be accounted for as insurance or a deposit. Contracts that include fixed premium (i.e., premium not subject to adjustment based on loss experience under the contract) for fixed coverage generally transfer risk and do not require judgment. Reinsurance and insurance contracts that include both significant risk sharing provisions, such as adjustments to premiums or loss coverage based on loss experience, and relatively low policy limits as evidenced by a high proportion of maximum premium assessments to loss limits, can require considerable judgment to determine whether or not risk transfer requirements are met. For such contracts, often referred to as finite or structured products, we require that risk transfer be specifically assessed for each contract by developing expected cash flow analyses at contract inception. To support risk transfer, the cash flow analyses must support the fact that a significant loss is reasonably possible, such as a scenario in which the ratio of the net present value of losses divided by the net present value of premiums equals or exceeds 110 percent. For purposes of cash flow analyses, we generally use a risk free rate of return consistent with the expected average duration of loss payments. In addition, to support insurance risk, we must prove the reinsurers risk of loss varies with that of the reinsured and or support various scenarios under which the assuming entity can recognize a significant loss. To ensure risk transfer requirements are routinely assessed, quantitative risk transfer analyses and memoranda supporting risk transfer are developed by underwriters for all structured products. We have established protocols for structured products that include criteria triggering an accounting review of the contract prior to quoting. If any criterion is triggered, a contract must be reviewed by a committee established by each of our operating segments with reporting oversight, including peer review, from our global Structured Transaction Review Committee. 49 Table of Contents With respect to ceded reinsurance, we entered into a few multi year excess of loss retrospectively rated contracts, principally in 2002, some of which remain in force. These contracts principally provide severity protection for specific product divisions. Because traditional one year reinsurance coverage had become relatively costly, these contracts were generally entered into to secure a more cost effective reinsurance program. All of these contracts transferred risk and have been accounted for as reinsurance. In addition, we maintain a few aggregate excess of loss reinsurance contracts that were principally entered into prior to 2003, such as the National Indemnity Company (NICO) contracts referred to in the section entitled, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities. Subsequent to the ACE INA acquisition, we have not purchased any retroactive ceded reinsurance contracts. With respect to assumed reinsurance and insurance contracts, products giving rise to judgments regarding risk transfer are primarily sold by our financial solutions business, included in our Insurance North American segment. While there is currently very little new activity for these products, several contracts remain in force and principally include multi year retrospectively rated contracts and loss portfolio transfers. Because transfer of insurance risk is generally a primary client motivation for purchasing these products, relatively few P&C insurance and reinsurance contracts have historically been written for which we concluded that risk transfer criteria had not been met. For certain insurance contracts that have been reported as deposits, the insured desired to self insure a risk but was required, legally or otherwise, to purchase insurance so that claimants would be protected by a licensed insurance company in the event of non payment from the insured. A significant portion of ACE Tempest Re USAs business is written through quota share treaties (approximately $562 million of net premiums earned in 2006, comprised of $404 million of first dollar quota share treaties and $158 million of excess quota share treaties), some of which are categorized as structured products (approximately $139 million of net premiums earned in 2006). Structured quota share treaties typically contain relatively low aggregate policy limits, a feature that reduces loss coverage in some manner and a profit sharing provision. Accounting standard setters for both GAAP and statutory reporting have undertaken projects to re evaluate risk transfer guidance, including accounting models that could ultimately require the bifurcation of structured quota share treaties into insurance and financing elements, and perhaps other quota share contracts not currently categorized as structured, into a reinsurance and financing component. New guidance in this area has the potential to have a significant impact on the amount of premiums and losses recognized under these contracts but we expect little impact to net income. Results of Operations Years Ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The discussions that follow include tables, which show both our consolidated and segment operating results for the three years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. In presenting our segment operating results, we have discussed our performance with reference to underwriting results, which is a non GAAP measure. We consider this measure, which may be defined differently by other companies, to be important in understanding our overall results of operations. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other (income) expense, interest expense, income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. Underwriting results should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. 50 Table of Contents Consolidated Operating Results (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Net premiums written $ 12,030 $ 11,792 $ 11,496 Net premiums earned 11,825 11,748 11,110 Net investment income 1,601 1,264 1,013 Net realized gains (losses) (98 ) 76 197 Total revenues $ 13,328 $ 13,088 $ 12,320 Losses and loss expenses 7,070 8,571 7,690 Life and annuity benefits 123 143 175 Policy acquisition costs 1,715 1,663 1,559 Administrative expenses 1,456 1,261 1,265 Interest expense 176 174 183 Other (income) expense (35 ) (25 ) 9 Total expenses 10,505 11,787 10,881 Income before income tax 2,823 1,301 1,439 Income tax expense 522 273 286 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 4 Net income $ 2,305 $ 1,028 $ 1,153 Net premiums written, which reflect the premiums we retain after purchasing reinsurance protection, increased two percent in 2006, compared with 2005. The increase was primarily driven by production gains in many of ACE USAs and ACE Westchester Specialtys businesses, A&H growth at ACE International, and increased rates on short tail lines at ACE Global Markets. These increases were partially offset by a decline in international financial solutions business. In addition, ACE International had growth on the P&C side in continental Europe and Latin America offset by declines in the U.K. and Asia Pacific. The year ended December 31, 2005 was impacted by net catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, which reduced net premiums written and earned by $68 million. Additionally, the year ended December 31, 2005, included premiums written and earned of $148 million associated with multi year contracts written in our international financial solutions business which did not recur in 2006. In general, due to favorable industry financial results and growth in capital which have resulted in increased competition, P&C market conditions have deteriorated over the past year, particularly in non catastrophe P&C lines. However, the extent and pace of the deterioration has varied geographically and by line of business. Our global presence and broad product offering have allowed us to continue to be selective and grow lines of business which we believe will produce underwriting income while exiting unprofitable lines. Net premiums written increased three percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to strong production in ACE USAs casualty operations and increased catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, partially offset by a decline in net premiums written at ACE Global Markets. The following table provides a consolidated breakdown of net premiums earned by line of business for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 % of total 2005 % of total 2004 % of total Property and all other $ 3,618 31 % $ 3,560 30 % $ 3,721 34 % Casualty 6,506 55 % 6,698 57 % 6,030 54 % A&H 1,427 12 % 1,242 11 % 1,133 10 % Total P&C 11,551 98 % 11,500 98 % 10,884 98 % Life Insurance and Reinsurance 274 2 % 248 2 % 226 2 % Net premiums earned $ 11,825 100 % $ 11,748 100 % $ 11,110 100 % Net premiums earned reflect the portion of net premiums written that were recorded as revenues for the period as the exposure period expires. Net premiums earned were stable in 2006, compared with 2005 as increases in A&H (15 percent) were offset by significant decreases in financial solutions business, which we include under casualty in the 51 Table of Contents above table. Net premiums earned relating to financial solutions business were $143 million in 2006, compared with $445 million in 2005. Net premiums earned increased six percent in 2005, compared with 2004 primarily due to growth in production of U.S. casualty business, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Assured Guaranty. Net investment income increased 27 percent in 2006, compared with 2005, and 25 percent in 2005, compared with 2004. These increases were primarily due to investment of positive operating cash flows and net proceeds from our approximately $1.5 billion public offering in October 2005, which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. In evaluating our P&C business, we use the combined ratio, the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. We calculate these ratios by dividing the respective expense amounts by net premiums earned. We do not calculate these ratios for the life business as we do not use these measures to monitor or manage that business. The combined ratio is determined by adding the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. A combined ratio under 100 percent indicates underwriting income and a combined ratio exceeding 100 percent indicates underwriting losses. The following table shows our consolidated loss and loss expense ratio, policy acquisition ratio, administrative expense ratio and combined ratio for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. 2006 2005 2004 Loss and loss expense ratio 61.2% 74.5% 70.7% Policy acquisition cost ratio 14.6% 14.2% 14.1% Administrative expense ratio 12.3% 10.8% 11.5% Combined ratio 88.1% 99.5% 96.3% Our loss and loss expense ratio decreased in 2006, compared with 2005, during which we experienced significant catastrophe losses. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses, A&E reserve strengthening and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. 2006 2005 2004 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 61.2% 74.5% 70.7% Catastrophe losses (0.1)% (11.4)% (4.7)% A&E reserve strengthening (4.3)% Prior period development 0.1% (0.7)% (0.8)% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 61.2% 62.4% 60.9% We recorded $17 million in net catastrophe losses in 2006, compared with $1.4 billion in 2005, and $499 million in 2004. In 2005, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. In 2004, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with hurricanes which struck the Caribbean and the U.S. The results of the recent study conducted in 2006 for A&E and other run off reserves resulted in activity between A&E and other with no increase in net reserves. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we recorded net increases in A&E and other run off reserves of $465 million. Prior period development arises from changes to loss estimates recognized in the current year that relate to loss reserves first reported in previous calendar years and excludes the effect of losses from the development of earned premium from previous accident years. We experienced $12 million in net favorable prior period development in 2006, compared with $86 million of net adverse prior period development in 2005, and $82 million of net adverse prior period development (excluding A&E reserve strengthening) in 2004. The favorable prior period development in 2006 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. Amongst these movements was net adverse development of $165 million on catastrophe losses primarily arising from 2005 hurricanes. We also had reserve releases in other short tail lines. In the following segment discussions, prior period development unrelated to catastrophes are discussed in more detail. Our policy acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes, underwriting and other costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of premium. Administrative expenses include all other operating costs. Our policy acquisition costs ratio increased in 2006 primarily due to changes in business mix and the favorable impact 52 Table of Contents in 2005 of net premiums earned on multi year contracts in connection with the significant 2005 catastrophe losses which, generally, did not incur acquisition costs. Our administrative expense ratio increased in 2006, compared with 2005. We have invested in global expansion, including staff additions and infrastructure enhancements at ACE USA, ACE Westchester Specialty, ACE Life and ACE International. Administrative expenses in 2006 also include $80 million related to the settlement with certain governmental agencies from their investigations of various insurance industry practices and $16 million of related legal fees. The 2005 year included $45 million of legal fees related to the investigation. The decrease in the administrative expense ratio in 2005, compared with 2004, was primarily due to the increased net premiums earned. Additionally, for 2005, administrative expenses were reduced by the release of an accrual in Insurance North American and higher net profits from ACE USAs ESIS (claims services) operation, which we include in administrative expenses. Interest expense was stable in 2006, compared with 2005. Interest expense decreased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to the $75 million of Capital Re LLC preferred securities which were outstanding in 2004, and redeemed on July 12, 2004. Additionally, in 2004, we issued $500 million of 5.875 percent notes and repaid $400 million of ACE INA 8.2 percent notes. Our effective tax rate is dependent upon the mix of earnings from different jurisdictions with various tax rates; a change in the geographic mix of earnings would change the effective tax rate. Our effective tax rate on net income, which we calculate as income tax expense divided by income before income tax, was 18 percent in 2006, compared with 21 percent in 2005, and 20 percent in 2004. In 2005 and 2004, a substantial portion of our catastrophe losses occurred in jurisdictions where we do not incur income tax, causing our income to decline without a commensurate decrease in income tax expense. The effective tax rate for 2005 was approximately five percentage points lower due to the favorable impact of the American Jobs Creation Act, which resulted in an income tax benefit of $69 million. No such benefit existed in 2006 or 2004. In 2004, we incurred approximately $13 million in income tax expense related to U.S. federal income taxes from the transfer of our U.S. financial and mortgage guaranty operations to Assured Guaranty and attributed to the sale of our Assured Guaranty shares. Additionally, the A&E reserve strengthening in 2004 resulted in tax benefits of $163 million, which partially reduced our overall effective tax rate on net income for that year. Segment Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 We operate through the following business segments: Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, Global Reinsurance and Life Insurance and Reinsurance. These business segments were determined in accordance with FAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information (FAS 131). Prior to the fourth quarter of 2006, we presented a Financial Services segment. However, since this segment no longer represents a significant part of our operations, we no longer report it separately. We classify the financial solutions business of ACE Financial Solutions and ACE Financial Solutions International (previously included in the Financial Services segment) with the Insurance North American segment. The financial results of our financial guaranty business through April 28, 2004 (the date of the Assured Guaranty initial public offering) and our share of the earnings of Assured Guaranty, were previously included in the Financial Services segment and have been classified into our corporate results. These segment changes were based primarily on the manner in which we manage the business and accountability for results. All prior periods presented have been amended to conform to this new presentation. For more information on each of our segments, including products and distribution, refer to Segment Information, under Item 1. 53 Table of Contents Insurance North American As discussed above, we have made changes to the Insurance North American segment based on how we manage the business. ACE Financial Solutions has been classified into ACE USAs results and ACE Financial Solutions International has been reclassified into ACE Bermudas results, both of which are included in this segment. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Net premiums written $ 5,940 $ 5,803 $ 5,424 Net premiums earned 5,719 5,730 5,096 Losses and loss expenses 4,026 4,577 4,266 Policy acquisition costs 530 503 458 Administrative expenses 502 427 470 Underwriting income (loss) 661 223 (98 ) Net investment income 876 698 583 Net realized gains (losses) (83 ) 15 134 Interest expense 1 Other (income) expense (2 ) 18 6 Income tax expense 352 235 114 Net income $ 1,104 $ 683 $ 498 Loss and loss expense ratio 70.4% 79.9% 83.7% Policy acquisition cost ratio 9.2% 8.8% 9.0% Administrative expense ratio 8.8% 7.4% 9.2% Combined ratio 88.4% 96.1% 101.9% Net premiums written for the Insurance North American segment increased two percent in 2006 compared with 2005. ACE USA, this segments U.S. based retail division, experienced growth across many lines. Increased production was reported in commercial property, including energy and aerospace lines, financial solutions, small and middle market workers compensation, excess liability, and specialty casualty lines of business, including management liability, errors and omissions, medical liability, surety and environmental liability. These increases were partially offset by a decline in production in the large account risk management unit. ACE Bermuda reported a significant decline in its financial solutions business as net premiums written in 2005 were bolstered by catastrophe related reinstatement premiums on multi year contracts of $148 million. ACE Westchester Specialty, this segments wholesale focused division, reported modest growth driven primarily by primary and excess casualty, inland marine, environmental and professional risk business. The year ended December 31, 2005, was impacted by catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, which reduced net premiums written and earned by $76 million, primarily at ACE USA and ACE Westchester Specialty. Net premiums written increased seven percent in 2005 compared with 2004. This increase was primarily driven by ACE USAs risk management, medical liability and workers compensation businesses and ACE Westchester Specialtys casualty lines. These gains were partially offset by lower net premiums written for property business, due in large part to higher reinstatement premiums in connection with catastrophe losses. 54 Table of Contents The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance North Americans net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 % oftotal 2005 % oftotal 2004 % oftotal Property and all other $ 1,289 22% $ 1,249 22% $ 1,280 25% Casualty 4,228 74% 4,299 75% 3,642 72% A&H 202 4% 182 3% 174 3% Net premiums earned $ 5,719 100% $ 5,730 100% $ 5,096 100% (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 ACE USA $ 3,795 $ 3,666 $ 3,233 ACE Westchester Specialty 1,465 1,385 1,242 ACE Bermuda 459 679 621 Net premiums earned $ 5,719 $ 5,730 $ 5,096 ACE USAs net premiums earned increased four percent in 2006, compared with 2005. The increase was primarily driven by growth in specialty casualty and commercial property lines over the last year, partially offset by a decline in U.S. financial solutions net premiums earned (which we include under casualty in the line of business table above). ACE USA reported continued growth in net premiums earned in workers compensation coverage offered to small and middle market clients, property, professional and management liability, surety and medical liability businesses. ACE USAs net premiums earned increased 13 percent in 2005, compared with 2004. ACE Risk Management reported strong demand for its custom coverage solutions for large companies and construction projects while relatively new casualty units offering workers compensation and medical liability coverage also contributed to ACE USAs growth in 2005, compared with 2004. ACE Westchester Specialtys net premiums earned increased six percent in 2006, compared with 2005. This increase was primarily driven by increased primary and excess casualty, inland marine, environmental and professional risk business and also the negative impact of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums on the prior year. ACE Westchester Specialty reported a 12 percent increase in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to growth in casualty business, partially offset by higher catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. ACE Bermudas net premiums earned decreased 32 percent in 2006, compared with 2005. The decrease was a result of the decline in financial solutions business, including the impact on the prior year of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums on multi year contracts. In 2006, ACE Bermuda reported increases in net premiums earned on excess liability and excess property business offset by a decline in net premiums earned on professional lines business. ACE Bermudas net premiums earned increased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to the reinstatement premiums on multi year contracts, partially offset by a decline in professional lines production. Insurance North Americans loss and loss expense ratio decreased in 2006, compared with 2005. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses, A&E reserve strengthening and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. 2006 2005 2004 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 70.4% 79.9% 83.7% Catastrophe losses (8.9)% (2.9)% A&E reserve strengthening (9.0)% Prior period development (1.2)% (1.8)% (3.3)% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 69.2% 69.2% 68.5% Insurance North Americans catastrophe losses were $nil in 2006, compared with $557 million in 2005 and $137 million in 2004. In 2005, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. In 2004, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with hurricanes which struck the Caribbean and the U.S. The 2004 loss and loss expense ratio was negatively impacted by the A&E and other run off reserve strengthening, which resulted in a 55 Table of Contents before tax charge of $459 million, including the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, for Insurance North American. The net additions comprised A&E reserve increases of $548 million including the provision for uncollectible reinsurance of $95 million and favorable prior period development of $89 million in other run off reserves. Insurance North American incurred net adverse prior period development of $65 million in 2006, representing 0.5 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. The net prior period development in 2006 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, the most significant of which were: Net adverse development of $60 million on long tail business including: Adverse development of $57 million on a small number of run off portfolios in the U.S. with predominantly workers compensation exposures from accident years 1996 and prior. This movement was largely due to a revision of selected loss development factors in the tail. Loss reserve estimates for this business are very sensitive to changes in such assumptions; Adverse development of $42 million on the ACE Bermuda D&O book from report years 2000 2002 driven by case estimate increases on large claims following significant events in the mediation process including increased plaintiff demands, settlement conferences and court proceedings; Favorable development of $29 million on the ACE Bermuda excess liability book driven by the settlement of a single claim from the 1991 report year on better than the anticipated terms used to establish the reserve; Favorable development of $13 million on large account business written by ACE USA due to lower than anticipated loss emergence. Net adverse development of $51 million on short tail business including: Adverse development of $182 million related to property claims arising from 2005 catastrophes. The majority of this increase is related to property losses from Hurricane Katrina. The nature and extent of Hurricane Katrina resulted in some claims that increased over previously reported damage estimates. Factors leading to these increases included demand surge and some impact to previously unimpaired layers of excess coverage; Favorable development on ACE Westchester Specialtys crop/hail business of $60 million due to recording of the final settlement of the 2005 crop results. In line with normal practice for this type of business ACE did not receive formal loss reports for the 2005 year until 2006. Therefore, the prior period movements were direct results of the loss amounts within the initial loss report issued during the first quarter of 2006 and final loss report issued during the second quarter of 2006 being lower than our preliminary estimates; Favorable development of $51 million on ACE USAs workers compensation short tail catastrophe and industrial accident exposure primarily arising from accident years 2004 and 2005, following the review of reported loss experience relative to expectations. Net favorable development on specialty lines of business of $46 million due to lower than expected loss emergence from the 2004 and 2005 accident years. The major components of this movement were $18 million and $14 million on surety and aerospace business respectively. We experienced $103 million of net adverse prior period development in 2005, representing 0.9 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2004. The 2005 prior period development was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, the most significant of which were: Adverse development of $171 million on certain sub portfolios of long tail business, written principally during accident years 1998 2002 in our U.S. operations. In particular: Run off program business including aggregate excess workers compensation exposure, general liability and automobile liability ($59 million in accident years 1999 2002); Excess general liability business written on a portfolio of large corporate accounts ($38 million across accident years 1998 2001); Professional liability business, mainly related to a run off nursing care program ($21 million for accident years 1999 2002); Pool participations covering workers compensation business assumed on both a voluntary and involuntary basis ($35 million in accident years 2004 and prior). The development followed completion of reserve studies that reflected higher than anticipated actual loss experience compared with expectations from the previous reserve studies. In the case of the excess general liability and professional liability business, the development arose following the completion of a detailed claims review that identified the need for significant case reserve changes on a number of accounts; Adverse development of $99 million in the ACE Bermuda professional lines book on accident years 2002 and prior following a claims and legal review of information received on several previously notified claims; 56 Table of Contents Favorable prior period development of $22 million in the financial services lines relating to a financial guarantee reinsurance contract that provides default coverage for a diversified portfolio of securities. The portfolio was substantially reduced and actual losses, representing the shortfall between cash paid to settle securities and stated principal and interest amounts, were lower than corresponding loss reserves held for those securities; Adverse development of $84 million mostly on the 2001 and 2002 accident years relating to changes in the legal and claim positions on a small number of financial guarantee contracts; Favorable development of $107 million on lines with short tail exposures (property, inland marine, and workers compensation catastrophe) resulting from our standard quarterly reserving process. Favorable development arose from the better than expected emergence of actual claims relative to expectations used to establish reserves. A majority of the favorable development arose from accident year 2004; Favorable development of $70 million in the ACE Bermuda excess liability book on accident years 2002 and prior due to a number of successful claim settlements during the year; Favorable development of $47 million on specialty business including agriculture, aviation, satellites, and political risk due to lower than anticipated loss emergence during the year, mainly related to more recent accident years, primarily the 2004 accident year. We experienced net adverse prior period development of $166 million, excluding A&E, in 2004, representing 1.7 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2003. The 2004 net adverse prior period development of $166 million was mainly driven by development on long tail lines for accident years 2002 and prior, most notably $163 million on U.S. run off workers compensation business and $98 million on the ACE Bermuda professional lines business. Partially offsetting this adverse development was $181 million of favorable prior period development on lines with short tail exposures principally related to accident year 2003. Insurance North Americans policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2006, compared with 2005, primarily due to additional profit commissions on crop/hail business due to 2005 crop results being more profitable than in 2004. The year ended December 31, 2005, benefited from premiums earned on multi year contracts which generally do not incur acquisition costs. The policy acquisition cost ratio decreased in 2005, compared with 2004, as higher acquisition costs on ACE Westchester Specialtys crop business was offset by lower direct and contingent commissions at ACE USA and lower commission costs at ACE Bermuda. Administrative expenses increased in 2006, compared with 2005. Administrative expenses in 2005 were favorably impacted by the reduction of $42 million in various accruals determined not to be needed. Additionally, net profits for ACE USAs ESIS operation which we include in administrative expenses, were lower in 2006. Insurance Overseas General (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Net premiums written $ 4,266 $ 4,195 $ 4,335 Net premiums earned 4,321 4,239 4,296 Losses and loss expenses 2,259 2,583 2,423 Policy acquisition costs 856 836 800 Administrative expenses 609 566 544 Underwriting income 597 254 529 Net investment income 370 319 224 Net realized gains (losses) (16) 51 47 Other expense 10 16 25 Income tax expense 206 107 232 Net income $ 735 $ 501 $ 543 Loss and loss expense ratio 52.3% 60.9% 56.4% Policy acquisition cost ratio 19.8% 19.7% 18.6% Administrative expense ratio 14.1% 13.4% 12.7% Combined ratio 86.2% 94.0% 87.7% 57 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written increased two percent in 2006, compared with 2005. ACE International reported growth in A&H business driven by continued success in direct marketing campaigns in Asia Pacific and Latin America. On the P&C side, growth in continental Europe and Latin America was partially offset by a decline in net premiums written in the U.K. and the Far East due to pricing pressure and competitive conditions for new accounts. ACE Global Markets reported increased net premiums written due to rate increases in such lines as energy, property and marine. The year ended December 31, 2005, was impacted by catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, which reduced net premiums written and earned by $38 million, primarily at ACE Global Markets. Net premiums written decreased three percent in 2005, compared with 2004. This decrease was primarily due to a decline in production combined with higher catastrophe related reinstatement premiums at ACE Global Markets, partially offset by gains on conversion of the U.S. dollar against the British pound sterling and the Euro dollar (refer to the table below for impact of foreign exchange on net premiums written and earned). The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 % oftotal 2005 % oftotal 2004 % oftotal Property and all other $ 1,617 37% $ 1,609 38% $ 1,738 41% Casualty 1,479 34% 1,570 37% 1,599 37% A&H 1,225 29% 1,060 25% 959 22% Net premiums earned $ 4,321 100% $ 4,239 100% $ 4,296 100% (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 ACE Europe $ 1,819 $ 1,865 $ 1,934 ACE Asia Pacific 590 545 485 ACE Far East 361 378 382 ACE Latin America 521 416 355 ACE International 3,291 3,204 3,156 ACE Global Markets 1,030 1,035 1,140 Net premiums earned $ 4,321 $ 4,239 $ 4,296 Insurance Overseas General reported a two percent increase in net premiums earned in 2006, compared with 2005. In 2006, this segment experienced growth in A&H business, offset by weakening market conditions for P&C business and higher reinsurance costs. Additionally, the prior year was impacted by catastrophe related reinstatement premiums of $38 million. Net premiums earned decreased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to a decline in production at ACE Global Markets, higher catastrophe related reinstatement premiums and increased reinsurance costs. ACE Internationals net premiums earned increased three percent in 2006, compared with 2005. Generally, in the U.K., competition for P&C business has put pressure on rates, terms and conditions, while production of A&H business in Europe has increased. ACE Asia Pacific and ACE Latin America reported increases in net premiums earned in the current periods primarily driven by solid growth in A&H business over the past year. These regions have been successfully utilizing unique and innovative distribution channels to grow their A&H book. ACE Far East reported a decline in net premiums earned, primarily due to the weaker Japanese Yen. ACE Internationals net premiums earned increased two percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to the relative position of the U.S. dollar, as strong A&H growth was more than offset by lower P&C writings. ACE Global Markets net premiums earned were stable in 2006, compared with 2005, as the decrease in catastrophe related reinstatement premiums was offset by higher reinsurance costs in 2006, particularly on aviation, energy, property and marine lines. ACE Global Markets net premiums earned decreased nine percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to higher catastrophe related reinstatement premiums and a decline in production across most of ACE Global Markets portfolio of products, particularly property and professional lines. 58 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General conducts business internationally and in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the approximate effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of net premiums written and earned for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. 2006 2005 Net premiums written: Growth in original currency 2.7% (5.5)% Foreign exchange effect (1.0)% 2.3% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 1.7% (3.2)% Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency 2.3% (3.3)% Foreign exchange effect (0.4)% 2.0% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 1.9% (1.3)% Insurance Overseas Generals loss and loss expense ratio decreased in 2006, compared with 2005, primarily due to lower catastrophe losses. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses, and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. 2006 2005 2004 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 52.3% 60.9% 56.4% Catastrophe losses (0.1)% (5.2)% (1.4)% Prior period development 1.7% (0.1)% 0.5% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 53.9% 55.6% 55.5% Net catastrophe losses for 2006 were $3 million, compared with $201 million and $53 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2005, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. In 2004, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with hurricanes which struck the Caribbean and the U.S. Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $72 million in 2006, representing 1.3 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. The net prior period development for 2006 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, the most significant of which were: Net favorable development of $111 million on short tail property and fire lines. These reserve changes were made as part of our regular quarterly reserving process and arose from better than expected emergence of actual claims relative to expectations. This movement mainly related to accident years 2004 and 2005; Adverse development of $20 million on long tail lines of business including: Adverse development of $29 million on the ACE Global Markets professional lines portfolio. This movement was due to heavier than expected loss development on years of account 2003 and prior; Adverse development of $14 million on asbestos liabilities excluding a provision for uncollectible reinsurance, following completion of our review of A&E liabilities; Net favorable development of $23 million on ACE Internationals non A&E exposures from the 2002 2004 accident periods. This movement was driven by continued favorable loss emergence most notably on the U.K. casualty and Asia Pacific financial lines portfolios. Net adverse development of $19 million on specialty business including aviation, A&H, marine, consumer lines and political risk. Most of the adverse development was driven by higher than expected loss activity at ACE Global Markets, primarily on accident years 2002 and prior. We experienced $5 million of net adverse development in 2005, representing 0.1 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2004. The 2005 prior period development was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, the most significant of which were: Favorable development of $94 million on short tail property and fire lines. These reserve changes were made as part of our regular quarterly reserving process and arose from better than expected emergence of actual claims relative to expectations. This movement mainly related to accident years 2003 and 2004; Adverse development of $41 million on ACEs share of a consortium reinsuring U.S. workers compensation business during the late 1990s. The adverse development arose following the completion of a financial and actuarial review of information received from the client; 59 Table of Contents . Adverse development of $62 million on professional lines business due to case reserve increases on a number of large claims. This adverse development was mainly related to accident years 2001 through 2003. We experienced net favorable prior period development of $17 million, including $6 million of adverse development relating to A&E, in 2004, representing 0.4 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2003. The 2004 net favorable prior period development was driven by favorable development on certain short tail lines of $103 million being offset by moderate adverse movements on a number of sub portfolios including aviation, casualty, political risk and A&H business. Insurance Overseas Generals policy acquisition cost ratio has increased over the last three years primarily due to changes in business mix at ACE International (increase in A&H, which typically attracts higher commission rates than other business, particularly in Latin America). Insurance Overseas Generals administrative expense ratio increased in 2006, compared with 2005, primarily due to investments in global expansion including staff additions and infrastructure enhancements at ACE International, particularly in emerging markets. The increase in 2005 compared with 2004, was primarily due to the depreciation of the U.S. dollar, increased costs to support business opportunities and, to a lesser extent, the decline in net premiums earned. Global Reinsurance (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Net premiums written $ 1,550 $ 1,546 $ 1,518 Net premiums earned 1,511 1,531 1,389 Losses and loss expenses 784 1,402 973 Policy acquisition costs 303 300 265 Administrative expenses 62 60 65 Underwriting income (loss) 362 (231) 86 Net investment income 221 173 126 Net realized gains (losses) 10 (4) 27 Interest expense 3 Other (income) expense 8 11 5 Income tax expense 38 11 14 Net income (loss) $ 547 $ (87) $ 220 Loss and loss expense ratio 51.8% 91.6% 70.1% Policy acquisition cost ratio 20.1% 19.6% 19.1% Administrative expense ratio 4.1% 3.9% 4.6% Combined ratio 76.0% 115.1% 93.8% Global Reinsurances net premiums written were stable in 2006 compared with 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2006, this segment benefited from increased rates on property catastrophe coverages following two years of unprecedented hurricane activity, partially offset by lower casualty rates in Europe, and the cancellation of a large property account in the U.S. The year ended December 31, 2005, was impacted by catastrophe related assumed reinstatement premiums, which increased net premiums written and earned by $46 million. Net premiums written increased two percent in 2005 compared with 2004. Increased assumed reinstatement premiums related to catastrophe losses were partially offset by weak market conditions for property and property catastrophe business (primarily in the first half of 2005) and lower casualty rates in Europe. The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Global Reinsurances net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 % oftotal 2005 % oftotal 2004 % oftotal Property and all other $ 354 23% $ 354 23% $ 374 27% Casualty 799 52% 829 54% 686 49% Property catastrophe 358 25% 348 23% 329 24% Net premiums earned $ 1,511 100% $ 1,531 100% $ 1,389 100% 60 Table of Contents (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 ACE Tempest Re Europe $ 272 $ 295 $ 303 ACE Tempest Re USA 872 887 751 ACE Tempest Re Bermuda 367 349 335 Net premiums earned $ 1,511 $ 1,531 $ 1,389 Global Reinsurances net premiums earned decreased one percent in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily due to reduced assumed reinstatement premiums at ACE Tempest Bermuda and ACE Tempest Re Europe and the cancellation of a large homeowners account at ACE Tempest Re USA. Net premiums earned increased 10 percent in 2005 compared with 2004, primarily due to higher assumed reinstatement premiums and casualty earnings on business written in prior periods. The loss and loss expense ratio decreased in 2006, compared with 2005, primarily due to decreased catastrophe losses. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. 2006 2005 2004 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 51.8% 91.6% 70.1% Catastrophe losses (0.9)% (37.7)% (21.8)% Prior period development 0.4% 1.4% 4.4% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 51.3% 55.3% 52.7% Global Reinsurance recorded net catastrophe losses of $14 million in 2006 compared with $601 million and $309 million in net catastrophe losses in 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2005, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. In 2004, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with hurricanes which struck the Caribbean and the U.S. Global Reinsurance incurred net favorable prior period development of $5 million in 2006, representing 0.2 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. The net prior period development in 2006 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. The largest adverse movement was related to catastrophes from the 2005 accident year of $29 million as a result of increased loss reports from cedants. Favorable movements largely related to property business from accident years pre 2005 and a number of small movements on different specialty portfolios. We experienced $22 million of net favorable prior period development in 2005, representing 1.4 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2004. This compares with 2004 net favorable prior period development of $61 million, representing 6.6 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2003. The 2005 favorable prior period development related primarily to property and other short tail lines and resulted from a difference between the actual and expected claims emergence used to establish reserves for the 2003 and 2004 accident years. The prior period development in 2004 was primarily due to better than expected claims experience on property and other short tail lines. The remaining decreases to the loss and loss expense ratio in 2006 were primarily due to favorable current accident year experience on property business and changes in business mix. In 2006, there was a greater proportion of property and property catastrophe business and pro rata business, which generally carries a lower loss ratio than excess of loss business. Global Reinsurances policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2006, primarily due to higher ceding commissions at ACE Tempest Re USA and the impact on the prior year of catastrophe related assumed reinstatement premiums, which do not incur acquisition costs. The policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2005 compared with 2004, primarily as a result of changes in business mix, partially offset by increased catastrophe related assumed reinstatement premiums. Administrative expenses have been stable over the last three years. The administrative expense ratio increased in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily due to lower net premiums earned and decreased in 2005 compared with 2004, primarily due to increased net premiums earned. 61 Table of Contents Life Insurance and Reinsurance Life Insurance and Reinsurance includes the operations of ACE Tempest Life Re (ACE Life Re) and ACE International Life (ACE Life). We assess the performance of our life insurance and reinsurance business based on life underwriting income which includes net investment income. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Net premiums written $ 274 $ 248 $ 226 Net premiums earned 274 248 226 Life and annuity benefits 123 143 175 Policy acquisition costs 26 24 24 Administrative expenses 35 19 11 Net investment income 42 36 33 Life underwriting income 132 98 49 Net realized gains (losses) (36 ) 19 7 Income tax expense (benefit) (6 ) (2 ) (2 ) Net income $ 102 $ 119 $ 58 Life underwriting income increased 35 percent in 2006, compared with 2005. Net premiums earned increased ten percent primarily due to continued growth in variable annuity business at ACE Life Re and ACE Lifes international operations. Life and annuity benefits declined due to favorable experience on variable annuity business combined with a decrease in group long term disability business, which typically incurs higher benefit ratios than other types of business. Life underwriting income increased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to a decrease in life and annuity benefits. In 2005, life and annuity benefits declined primarily due to a decrease in group long term disability business. Life Insurance and Reinsurances administrative expenses increased in 2006 primarily due to increased expenses at ACE Life to support business development opportunities. Net realized gains (losses) consist of market value movement of the investment portfolio and fair value movement of guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIBs), which occur due to changes in the level and volatility of interest rates and equity markets. Net Investment Income Net investment income for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was derived from the following sources: (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Fixed maturities $ 1,463 $ 1,170 $ 980 Short term investments 119 86 47 Equity securities 57 50 25 Other 26 22 17 Gross investment income 1,665 1,328 1,069 Investment expenses (64 ) (64 ) (56 ) Net investment income $ 1,601 $ 1,264 $ 1,013 Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors, including the amounts and timing of inward and outward cash flows, the level of interest rates and changes in overall asset allocation. Net investment income increased 27 percent in 2006, compared with 2005, and 25 percent in 2005, compared with 2004. The increase in net investment income is primarily due to several years of positive operating cash flows which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. Additionally, in late 2005, our invested asset base was increased by the proceeds from our public offering. Partially offsetting the growth trend in net investment income was the sale of Assured Guaranty in 2004, which reduced the average invested asset base. The investment portfolios average market yield on fixed maturities was 5.4 percent at December 31, 2006, compared with 5.0 percent and 4.1 percent at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The following table shows the return on average invested assets for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. 62 Table of Contents (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Average invested assets $ 34,007 $ 29,118 $ 24,129 Net investment income $ 1,601 $ 1,264 $ 1,013 Return on average invested assets 4.7% 4.3% 4.2% Net Realized Gains (Losses) Our investment strategy takes a long term view and our investment portfolio is actively managed to maximize total return within certain specific guidelines, designed to minimize risk. The majority of our investment portfolio is available for sale and reported at fair value. Our held to maturity investment portfolio is reported at amortized cost. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when other than temporary impairments are recorded on invested assets. Additionally, net income is impacted through the reporting of changes in the fair value of derivatives including futures, options, swaps, GMIB reinsurance, and credit default swaps. Changes in unrealized appreciation and depreciation on available for sale securities, which result from the revaluation of securities held, are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. On July 3, 2006, we completed the sale of ACE American Re, Brandywine Reinsurance Company (UK) Ltd (BRUK), and Brandywine Reinsurance Company S.A. N.V. to Randall & Quilter Investment Holdings Limited (R&Q). The transaction resulted in a pre tax realized loss of approximately $23 million. The following table presents our pre tax net realized gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Fixed maturities and short term investments $ (220 ) $ (45 ) $ 113 Equity securities 163 76 84 Foreign currency gains (losses) (13 ) 1 Other 5 4 (21 ) Derivatives: Equity and fixed income derivatives (40 ) 12 33 Fair value adjustment on insurance derivatives 7 29 (13 ) Subtotal derivatives (33 ) 41 20 Total net realized gains (losses) $ (98 ) $ 76 $ 197 Subject to investment guidelines approved by our Finance and Investment Committee of the Board of Directors (relating to asset classes, credit quality, and liquidity), our investment managers generally have the ability to sell securities from our available for sale investment portfolio when they determine that an alternative security with comparable risks is likely to provide a higher investment return, considering the realized gain or loss on sale of the held security and differential in future investment income. Often, sales of individual securities occur when investment managers conclude there are changes in the credit quality of a particular security or, for other reasons, market value is apt to deteriorate. Further, we may sell securities when we conclude it is prudent to reduce a concentration in a particular issuer or industry. Therefore, sales volume may increase in a volatile credit market in which credit spreads and thus the market value of fixed maturity investments are subject to significant changes in a short period of time. The interest rate environment will tend to have a limited effect on sales volume but extreme conditions could have an effect on the magnitude of realized gains or losses. For example, in a declining interest rate environment, the market value of securities increases, resulting in a greater likelihood of net realized gains and we would therefore tend to reduce the average duration of our fixed maturity investment portfolio. An increasing interest rate environment would tend to have the opposite effect. The effect of a high level of realized losses or gains for a particular period will tend to be offset by increases or decreases in investment income, respectively, in subsequent periods. From a liquidity perspective, our greatest risk is that we could be forced to sell a large volume of securities at a loss (i.e., in a high interest rate environment) to meet operating needs and are thus unable to reinvest proceeds to recoup such losses with future investment income (refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information). 63 Table of Contents In 2006, we recorded net realized losses of $33 million on derivative transactions. This compares with net realized gains of $41 million and $20 million, in 2005 and 2004, respectively. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates and equity indices on the fair value of derivatives and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. We regularly review our investment portfolio for possible impairment based on criteria including economic conditions, credit loss experience and issuer specific developments. If there is a decline in a securitys net realizable value, we must determine whether that decline is temporary or other than temporary. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record it as an unrealized loss in our shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the book value of the investment and record a net realized loss in our statement of operations. The decision to recognize a decline in the value of a security carried at fair value as other than temporary rather than temporary has no impact on our book value. Once a security is identified as having a potential other than temporary impairment, we determine whether or not cost will ultimately be recovered and whether we have the intent and ability to hold the security until an expected recovery period, absent a significant change in facts that is expected to have a material adverse financial effect on the issuer. The process of determining whether a decline in value is temporary or other than temporary requires considerable judgment and differs depending on whether or not the security is traded on a public market as well as by type of security. We review all of our fixed maturities and equity securities for potential impairment each quarter. Refer to Note 7 e) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for criteria we consider in assessing potential impairment and for a table which summarizes all of our securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2006 and 2005. Our net realized losses in 2006, included write downs of $214 million, as a result of conditions which caused us to conclude that the decline in fair value was other than temporary. This compares with write downs of $88 million and $39 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The impairments are primarily due to an increase in market interest rates from the date of security purchase and as such, are not credit related. A breakdown of write downs by security type is included in Note 7 f) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Income and Expense Items Years Ended December 31 (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Equity in net income of partially owned companies $ (60 ) $ (60 ) $ (41 ) Minority interest expense 8 16 22 Federal excise tax 10 7 6 Other 7 12 9 Goodwill impairment 13 Other (income) expense $ (35 ) $ (25 ) $ 9 Other income in 2006 and 2005 is primarily comprised of our equity in net income of Assured Guaranty (included in equity in net income of partially owned companies), and minority interest (income) expense associated with our consolidated joint ventures. Other income and expense also includes certain excise taxes incurred as a result of capital management initiatives. As these are considered capital transactions, they are excluded from underwriting results and are reported in other (income) expense. Other includes $2 million of pre closing transaction costs for the sale of the run off subsidiaries in 2006, $9 million of expense due to the write off of intangible assets in 2005 and $8 million in compensation expense in connection with the settlement of ACE stock awards held by employees of Assured Guaranty in 2004. In 2004, we recognized $13 million of goodwill impairments, following a review of our goodwill balance during the first quarter of 2004.  Investments Our principal investment objective is to ensure that funds are available to meet our insurance and reinsurance obligations. Within this broad liquidity constraint, the purpose of our investment portfolios structure is to maximize total return subject to specifically approved guidelines of overall asset classes, credit quality, liquidity and volatility of expected returns. Our investment portfolio is invested primarily in fixed income securities with an average credit 64 Table of Contents quality of AA, as rated by the independent investment rating service S&P. The portfolio is externally managed by independent, professional investment managers. The average duration of our fixed income securities, including the effect of options and swaps, increased to 3.3 years at December 31, 2006, compared with 2.9 years at December 31, 2005. We estimate that a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would reduce our book value by approximately $1.1 billion. Our other investments are principally comprised of direct investments, investment funds and limited partnerships. The following table shows the fair value and cost/amortized cost of our invested assets at December 31, 2006 and 2005. December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 (in millions of U.S. dollars) FairValue Cost/ Amortized Cost FairValue Cost/ Amortized Cost Fixed maturities available for sale $ 28,540 $ 28,389 $ 24,285 $ 24,273 Fixed maturities held to maturity 3,015 3,047 3,055 3,076 Short term investments 2,456 2,456 2,299 2,299 34,011 33,892 29,639 29,648 Equity securities 1,713 1,372 1,507 1,280 Other investments 845 661 675 592 Total investments $ 36,569 $ 35,925 $ 31,821 $ 31,520 The fair value of our total investments increased $4.7 billion in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily due to the investment of $3.6 billion of positive cash flows in the current period, including the impact of the sale of the run off companies which included, as part of the sale, cash and other investments of approximately $500 million. Unrealized appreciation of investments, particularly on fixed maturities, increased the total fair value of our investments by $353 million in 2006. The following tables show the market value of our fixed maturities and short term investments at December 31, 2006 and 2005. The first table lists investments according to type and the second according to S&P credit rating. December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 (in millions of U.S. dollars) MarketValue Percentage ofTotal MarketValue Percentage ofTotal Treasury $ 1,322 4 % $ 1,956 6% Agency 2,207 7 % 1,506 5% Corporate 7,394 22 % 7,646 26% Mortgage backed securities 11,346 33 % 8,363 28% Asset backed securities 2,020 6 % 1,981 7% Municipal 809 2 % 504 2% Non U.S. 6,457 19 % 5,384 18% Short term investments 2,456 7 % 2,299 8% Total $ 34,011 100 % $ 29,639 100% December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 (in millions of U.S. dollars) MarketValue Percentage ofTotal MarketValue Percentage ofTotal AAA $ 22,471 66 % $ 18,985 64 % AA 2,725 8 % 2,108 7 % A 3,909 12 % 4,350 15 % BBB 2,498 7 % 2,083 7 % BB 943 3 % 945 3 % B 1,365 4 % 1,106 4 % Other 100 62 Total $ 34,011 100 % $ 29,639 100 % 65 Table of Contents In accordance with our investment process, we invest in below investment grade securities through dedicated investment portfolios managed by external investment managers that have investment professionals specifically dedicated to this asset class. At December 31, 2006, our fixed income investment portfolio included below investment grade and non rated securities which, in total, comprised approximately seven percent of our fixed income portfolio. We define a security as being below investment grade if it has an S&P credit rating of BB or less. Our below investment grade and non rated portfolio includes approximately 800 issues, with the top 15 holdings making up approximately 12 percent of the $2.5 billion balance at December 31, 2006. The highest single exposure in this portfolio of securities is $25 million. Below investment grade securities have different characteristics than investment grade corporate debt securities. Risk of loss from default by the borrower is greater with below investment grade securities. Below investment grade securities are generally unsecured and are often subordinated to other creditors of the issuer. Also, issuers of below investment grade securities usually have higher levels of debt and are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as recession or increasing interest rates, than are investment grade issuers. We reduce the overall risk in the below investment grade portfolio, as in all investments, through careful credit analysis, strict investment policy guidelines and diversification by issuer and or guarantor as well as by industry. Restricted Assets We are required to maintain assets on deposit with various regulatory authorities to support our insurance and reinsurance operations. These requirements are generally promulgated in the statutory regulations of the individual jurisdictions. The assets on deposit are available to settle insurance and reinsurance liabilities. We also utilize trust funds in certain large transactions where the trust funds are set up for the benefit of the ceding companies and generally take the place of letter of credit (LOC) requirements. We also have investments in segregated portfolios primarily to provide collateral or guarantees for LOCs and debt instruments. (Refer to Notes 11 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) The following table identifies the value of restricted assets at December 31, 2006 and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 Deposits with U.S. regulatory authorities $ 999 $ 921 Deposits with non U.S. regulatory authorities 1,968 2,065 Assets used for collateral or guarantees 1,045 910 Trust funds 2,558 2,255 $ 6,570 $ 6,151 The value of restricted assets increased seven percent in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily due to increased use of trust funds in support of U.S. business ceded by ACE Tempest Re USA to ACE Tempest Re Bermuda. Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E. These A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to future changes in the legal, social and economic environment. We have not assumed any such future changes in setting the value of our A&E reserves, which include provisions for both reported and IBNR claims. Our exposure to A&E claims principally arises out of liabilities acquired when we purchased Westchester Specialty in 1998 and the P&C business of CIGNA in 1999, with the larger exposure contained within the liabilities acquired in the CIGNA transaction. In 1996, prior to our acquisition of the P&C business of CIGNA, the Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner approved a plan to restructure INA Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Restructuring) which included the division of Insurance Company of North America (INA) into two separate corporations: (1) an active insurance company that retained the INA name and continued to write P&C business and (2) an inactive run off company, now called Century Indemnity Company (Century). As a result of the division, predominantly all A&E and certain other liabilities of INA were allocated to Century and extinguished, as a matter of Pennsylvania law, as liabilities of INA. As part of the Restructuring, the A&E liabilities of various U.S. affiliates of INA were reinsured to Century, and Century and certain other run off companies having A&E and other liabilities were contributed to 66 Table of Contents Brandywine Holdings Corporation (Brandywine Holdings). As part of the 1999 acquisition of the P&C business of CIGNA, we acquired Brandywine Holdings and its various subsidiaries. For more information refer to Brandywine Run Off Entities, below. The table below presents a roll forward of our consolidated A&E loss reserves, allocated and unallocated loss expense reserves for A&E exposures and the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, for the year ended December 31, 2006. Asbestos Environmental Total (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Balance at December 31, 2005* $ 3,760 $ 1,964 $ 658 $ 553 $ 4,418 $ 2,517 Incurred activity 238 (71) (55) (24) 183 (95) Payment activity (373) (185) (86) (67) (459) (252) Foreign currency revaluation 28 6 3 2 31 8 Subtotal 3,653 1,714 520 464 4,173 2,178 Sale of certain run off reinsurance subsidiaries (461) (236) (33) (33) (494) (269) Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 3,192 $ 1,478 $ 487 $ 431 $ 3,679 $ 1,909 *The balance at December 31, 2005 has been adjusted to increase net reserves by $13 million for accounts not originally classified as A&E in our claim records, and to include $124 million of unallocated loss expense reserves and $310 million of provision for uncollectible reinsurance. The A&E net loss reserves including allocated and unallocated loss expense reserves and provision for uncollectible reinsurance at December 31, 2006 of $2.1 billion shown in the above table are comprised of $1.6 billion in reserves held by Brandywine run off companies, $245 million of reserves held by Westchester Specialty, $175 million of reserves held by ACE Bermuda and $124 million of reserves held by Insurance Overseas General. Included in the net incurred activity above is $23 million of incurred development from Insurance Overseas General and $21 million of unallocated loss adjustment expense incurred in the active ACE USA companies. The net figures in the above table reflect third party reinsurance other than reinsurance provided by NICO under three aggregate excess of loss contracts described below (collectively, the NICO contracts). We exclude the NICO contracts as they cover non A&E liabilities as well as A&E liabilities. The split of coverage provided under the NICO contracts for A&E liabilities as compared to non A&E liabilities is entirely dependant on the speed at which the related claims will be paid. Our ability to make an estimate of this split is not practicable. We believe, instead, that the A&E discussion is best provided excluding the NICO contracts, while separately discussing the NICO contracts in relation to the total subject business, both A&E and non A&E, covered by those contracts. With certain exceptions, the NICO contracts provide coverage for our net A&E incurred losses and allocated loss expenses within the limits of coverage and above ACEs retention levels. These exceptions include losses arising from operations of ACE Overseas General and participations by ACE Bermuda as a co reinsurer or retrocessionaire in the NICO contracts. The adverse gross asbestos incurred activity was primarily due to some deterioration in asbestos exposures driven by an increase in legal defense expenses and adverse development on select accounts, brought on by isolated circumstances specific to those accounts. Despite the adverse gross asbestos incurred activity, net incurred activity declined in 2006. This was partially due to improvements in our recoverable estimation process, favorable actual paid net to gross trends since the prior review and changes in the mix of gross losses subject to reinsurance recoveries. Since our last A&E reserve study, we have improved our highly detailed and quantitative approach to modeling the cessions to our third party facultative and treaty reinsurance for each modeled account. We allocate each modeled ground up account estimate to the applicable direct Brandywine policies and then apply the terms of each applicable facultative certificate and treaty program to determine the percentage ceded and the reinsurance ceded by reinsurer. This process allows us to specifically determine credit quality and hence the appropriate provision for uncollectible reinsurance. For this study, we applied the reinsurance model to over 90 percent of accounts, compared to 80 percent for the previous study. With respect to change in exposure mix, our overall gross incurred loss and loss expense comprises favorable and adverse development in the underlying component lines of business and exposures. We experienced adverse development with respect to gross losses for lines with significant third party reinsurance (e.g. asbestos, excess liability) and favorable development of gross losses in less heavily reinsured lines. Hence, the impact of the adverse gross development was reduced by reinsurance recoveries while at the same time less of the favorable development was ceded to reinsurers and retained. 67 Table of Contents Brandywine Run off Impact of NICO Contracts on ACEs Run Off Liabilities As part of the acquisition of the CIGNAs P&C business, NICO provided $2.5 billion of reinsurance protection to Century on all Brandywine loss and loss adjustment expense reserves and on the A&E reserves of various ACE INA insurance subsidiaries reinsured by Century (in each case, including uncollectible reinsurance). The benefits of this NICO contract (the Brandywine NICO Agreement) flow to the other Brandywine companies and to the ACE INA insurance subsidiaries through reinsurance agreements between those companies and Century. The Brandywine NICO Agreement was exhausted on an incurred basis in the fourth quarter of 2002. The following table presents a roll forward of net loss reserves, allocated and unallocated loss adjustment expense reserves and provision for uncollectible reinsurance in respect of Brandywine operations only, including the impact of the Brandywine NICO Agreement. The table represents the full year of the Brandywine incurred activity as well as the results of the reserve reviews discussed below. Brandywine NICOCoverage(2) Net ofNICOCoverage (in millions of U.S. dollars) A&E Other(1) Total Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 1,951 $ 1,422 $ 3,373 $ 2,161 $ 1,212 Incurred activity (146 ) 152 6 6 Payment activity (192 ) (117 ) (309 ) (279 ) (30 ) Subtotal 1,613 1,457 3,070 1,882 1,188 Sale of certain run off reinsurance subsidiaries (269 ) (203 ) (472 ) (472 ) Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 1,344 $ 1,254 $ 2,598 $ 1,882 $ 716 (1) Other consists primarily of workers compensation, non A&E general liability losses and provision for uncollectible reinsurance on non A&E business. (2) The NICO Coverage amount at December 31, 2005 has been increased by $299 million to exclude the impact of advances received from NICO. Reserve Reviews During 2006, we conducted an internal, ground up review of our consolidated A&E liabilities as of June 30, 2006. During the same period, a team of external actuaries performed an evaluation as to the adequacy of the reserves of Century. This external review was conducted in accordance with the Brandywine Restructuring Order, which requires that an external actuarial review of Centurys reserves be completed every two years. In addition, we engaged the external actuaries to review the A&E reserves of ACE American Re. As a result of the internal review, we concluded that our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, were adequate and, therefore, no change to the carried net reserve was required, while the gross loss reserves increased by approximately $210 million. The conclusions of the external review provided estimates of ultimate gross and net Brandywine liabilities that are lower than a comparable study in 2004. As a result, the difference in net loss reserves between the internal and external studies has narrowed to approximately $150 million ($100 million after tax) from $300 million ($180 million after tax) in 2004. Our A&E reserves are not discounted and do not reflect any anticipated future changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. Westchester Specialty Impact of NICO Contracts on ACEs Run Off Liabilities As part of the acquisition of Westchester Specialty in 1998, NICO provided a 75 percent pro rata share of $1 billion of reinsurance protection on losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred on or before December 31, 1996, in excess of a retention of $721 million (the 1998 NICO Agreement). NICO has also provided an 85 percent pro rata share of $150 million of reinsurance protection on losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses incurred on or before December 31, 1992, in excess of a retention of $755 million (the 1992 NICO Agreement). At December 31, 2006, the remaining unused incurred limit under the 1998 NICO Agreement was $485 million, which is available only for losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses. The 1992 NICO Agreement is exhausted on an incurred basis. 68 Table of Contents The following table presents a roll forward of net loss reserves, allocated and unallocated loss adjustment expense reserves and provision for uncollectible reinsurance in respect of 1996 and prior Westchester Specialty operations that are the subject business of the NICO covers. Westchester Specialty NICOCoverage Net of NICOCoverage (in millions of U.S. dollars) A&E Other* Total Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 260 $ 196 $ 456 $ 375 $ 81 Incurred activity 7 1 8 5 3 Payment activity (22 ) (20 ) (42 ) (24 ) (18 ) Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 245 $ 177 $ 422 $ 356 $ 66 * Other consists primarily of non A&E general liability and products liability losses. Reserving Considerations For asbestos, we face claims relating to policies issued to manufacturers, distributors, installers and other parties in the chain of commerce for asbestos and products containing asbestos. Claims can be filed by individual claimants or group of claimants with the potential for hundreds of individual claimants at one time. Claimants will generally allege damages across an extended time period which may coincide with multiple policies for a single insured. Our definition of an asbestos claim count is a policyholder asbestos cause of action, with claims for bodily injury and property damage tracked separately. For example, an asbestos manufacturer who faces products liability claims alleging bodily injury from exposure to their product would generate one count regardless of the number of policies we may have issued or the actual numbers of underlying claimants alleging bodily injury damages. Environmental claims present exposure for remediation and defense costs associated with the contamination of property as a result of pollution. It is common, especially for larger defendants, to be named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at multiple sites. Our environmental claim count definition is based on policyholder by site numbers. For example, if a policyholder were named as a PRP at ten pollution sites, we would track this as ten claim counts. In addition, should we have multiple policyholders identified as PRPs at the same waste site, each would constitute a separate claim count. The table below summarizes count information for asbestos and environmental claims for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, for direct policies only, and excludes claims from assumed reinsurance. 2006 2005 Asbestos (by causative agent) Open at the beginning of year 1,349 1,340 Newly reported 80 118 Closed or otherwise disposed 38 109 Open at end of year 1,391 1,349 Environmental (by site) Open at the beginning of year 6,902 7,172 Newly reported 220 345 Closed or otherwise disposed 698 615 Open at end of year 6,424 6,902 In 2006, the number of newly reported asbestos claims declined 32 percent to 80, compared with 118 new claims in 2005. The total pending asbestos claims increased three percent to 1,391 at December 31, 2006, compared with 1,349 at December 31, 2005. This increase in pending claims is influenced by the number of closings during the period. Given the nature of asbestos claim files, it is not unusual for a file to remain open for a period of time after the financial activity on the file has ended and a minimal increase in pending claims should not be taken as an adverse indication of underlying trends. In 2006, the number of newly reported environmental claims continued the decline experienced in recent years. The number of new sites in 2006 declined 36 percent to 220, compared with 345 in 2005. Total pending environmental claims at December 31, 2006 declined seven percent to 6,424, compared with 6,902 at December 31, 2005. 69 Table of Contents The following table shows our gross and net survival ratios for our A&E loss reserves and allocated loss adjustment expense (ALAE) reserves at December 31, 2006. 3 Year Survival Ratios 1 Year Survival Ratios Gross Net Gross Net Asbestos 10.9 10.5 8.8 7.5 Environmental 4.0 5.9 5.6 6.4 Total 8.9 8.8 8.2 7.2 The net ratios reflect third party reinsurance other than the aggregate excess reinsurance provided under the NICO contracts. These survival ratios are calculated by dividing the asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE reserves by the average asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments for the three most recent calendar years (3 year survival ratio), and by asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments in 2006 (1 year survival ratio). The survival ratios provide only a very rough measure of reserve adequacy and are significantly impacted by a number of factors such as aggressive settlement practices, variations in gross to ceded relationships within the asbestos or environmental claims and levels of coverage provided. We therefore urge caution in using these very simplistic ratios to gauge reserve adequacy and note that the 1 year survival ratios, particularly, are likely to move considerably from year to year for the reasons just described. Our survival ratios decreased in 2006, compared with 2005. In 2005, the net 1 year survival ratio for asbestos was 33.0, compared with 7.5 in 2006, and was heavily impacted by a single large cession of paid losses, which resulted in an atypically high net survival ratio. Additionally, in 2006, we had a favorable settlement that resulted in a full buyback of policy obligations on a significant account that resulted in a large increase in payments for the year and, therefore, had an unfavorable impact on our asbestos survival ratios. Brandywine Run off Entities In addition to housing a significant portion of our A&E exposure, the Brandywine operations include run off liabilities related to various insurance and reinsurance businesses. The following companies comprise ACEs Brandywine operations: Century (a Pennsylvania insurer), Century Re (a Pennsylvania insurer) and Century International Reinsurance Company Ltd. (a Bermuda insurer (CIRC)). All of the Brandywine companies are direct or indirect subsidiaries of Brandywine Holdings. The U.S. based ACE INA companies assumed two contractual obligations in respect of the Brandywine operations in connection with the Restructuring: a dividend retention fund obligation and a surplus maintenance obligation in the form of an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement. In accordance with the Brandywine restructuring order, INA Financial Corporation established and funded a dividend retention fund (the Dividend Retention Fund) consisting of $50 million plus investment earnings. The full balance of the Dividend Retention Fund was contributed to Century as of December 31, 2002. To the extent future dividends are paid by INA Holdings Corporation to its parent, INA Financial Corporation, and to the extent INA Financial Corporation then pays such dividends to INA Corporation, a portion of those dividends must be withheld to replenish the principal of the Dividend Retention Fund to $50 million within five years. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, no such dividends were paid and, therefore, no replenishment of the Dividend Retention Fund occurred. The obligation to maintain and to replenish the Dividend Retention Fund as necessary and to the extent dividends are paid is ongoing until ACE INA receives prior written approval from the Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner to terminate the fund. In addition, the ACE INA insurance subsidiaries provided insurance coverage to Century in the amount of $800 million under an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement (the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement) if the statutory capital and surplus of Century falls below $25 million or if Century lacks liquid assets with which to pay claims as they become due, after giving effect to the contribution of the balance, if any, of the Dividend Retention Fund. Coverage under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement was triggered as of December 31, 2002 following contribution of the balance of the Dividend Retention Fund, because Centurys capital and surplus fell below $25 million at December 31, 2002. Effective December 31, 2004, ACE INA Holdings contributed $100 million to Century in exchange for a surplus note. After giving effect to the contribution and issuance of the surplus note, the statutory surplus of Century at December 31, 2006 was $25 million and approximately $349 million in statutory basis losses were ceded to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement. Century reports the amount ceded under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement in accordance with statutory accounting principles, which differ from GAAP by, among other things, allowing Century 70 Table of Contents to discount its asbestos and environmental reserves. For GAAP reporting purposes, intercompany reinsurance recoverables related to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement are eliminated upon consolidation. To estimate ACEs remaining claim exposure under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement under GAAP, we adjust the statutory cession to exclude the discount embedded in statutory loss reserves. At December 31, 2006, approximately $654 million in GAAP basis losses were ceded under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement, leaving a remaining limit of coverage under that agreement of approximately $146 million. At December 31, 2005, the remaining limit of coverage under the agreement was $7 million. The increase in the remaining limit in 2006 was primarily related to the sale of the run off reinsurance subsidiaries. While we believe ACE has no legal obligation to fund losses above the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement limit of coverage, ACEs consolidated results would nevertheless continue to report any losses above the limit of coverage for so long as the Brandywine companies remain consolidated subsidiaries of ACE. Uncertainties Relating to ACEs Ultimate Brandywine Exposure In addition to the Dividend Retention Fund and Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement commitments described above, certain ACE entities are primarily liable for asbestos, environmental and other exposures that they have reinsured to Century. Accordingly, if Century were to become insolvent and ACE were to lose control of Century, some or all of the recoverables due to these ACE companies from Century could become uncollectible, yet those ACE entities would continue to be responsible to pay claims to their insureds or reinsureds. Under such circumstances, ACE would recognize a loss in its consolidated statement of operations. As of December 31, 2006, the aggregate reinsurance balances ceded by the active ACE companies to Century were approximately $1.5 billion. At December 31, 2006, Centurys carried gross reserves (including reserves ceded by the active ACE companies to Century) were $4.0 billion. We believe the intercompany reinsurance recoverables, which relate to liabilities payable over many years (i.e., 25 years or more), are not impaired at this time. A substantial portion of the liabilities ceded to Century by its affiliates have in turn been ceded by Century to NICO and, as of December 31, 2006, approximately $1.9 billion of cover remains on a paid basis. Should Centurys loss reserves experience adverse development in the future and should Century be placed into rehabilitation or liquidation, the reinsurance recoverables due to Centurys affiliates would be payable only after the payment in full of certain expenses and liabilities, including administrative expenses and direct policy liabilities. Thus, the intercompany reinsurance recoverables would be at risk to the extent of the shortage of assets remaining to pay these recoverables. As of December 31, 2006, reserves ceded by Century to the active ACE companies and other amounts owed to Century by the active ACE companies were approximately $550 million in the aggregate. In a lawsuit filed in California state court in December 1999 (AICCO, Inc v. Insurance Company of North America, et al.), certain competitors of ACE USA challenged the validity of the Restructuring under Californias Unfair Competition Law, Business and Professions Code Section 17200 (UCL). The lawsuit claims that the Restructuring is not applicable to California policyholders under the UCL because it constituted a transfer of liabilities without the consent of the policyholders. The suit also claims that the notice of the Restructuring was misleading. In November 2004, the voters of California approved Proposition 64 amending the UCL by, among other things, requiring that lawsuits brought under the UCL be brought by plaintiffs who have suffered actual injury as a result of the challenged business practice. In response to a motion to dismiss brought by ACE USA, the court ruled in February 2005 that the competitors/plaintiffs who brought this suit have not alleged actual injury as required by Proposition 64 and dismissed the suit. Plaintiffs filed a timely notice of appeal on May 5, 2005. Oral argument over plaintiffs appeal was held on April 19, 2006. On May 10, 2006, the Court of Appeals affirmed the dismissal of AICCOs lawsuit. AICCO filed a petition to appeal to the California Supreme Court, however, the California Supreme Court accepted review of another unrelated case that will ultimately decide the issue of whether Proposition 64 should be applied retroactively and which will be binding on this case. On July 24, 2006, the California Supreme Court announced its decision in Californians for Disability Rights v Mervyns et al., ruling that Proposition 64 applies to pending cases. The Supreme Court has entered an order denying leave to appeal and this case is concluded. Sale of Certain Brandywine Companies Refer to Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Catastrophe Exposure Management We have exposure to catastrophic event risks from global insurance and reinsurance writings of property and workers compensation and, to a lesser extent, marine, aviation and energy. This potential loss accumulation, caused by either man made (for example, terrorism, aviation) or natural perils (for example, hurricane, earthquake) is addressed using 71 Table of Contents several different approaches. First, we have established a series of Product Boards to ensure that geographic, product and client exposures are appropriate and meet both account level and portfolio limit guidelines adopted by the Product Boards. Second, we have a standardized modeling approach across our organization that utilizes a third party catastrophe simulation software package as the basis for preparing probabilistic estimates of our potential catastrophic loss. Each unit with catastrophe exposure is required to model, price and manage its catastrophe risk using the output analytics from the software and this output also allows the aggregation of risk within and across business units. We continually examine the reasonableness of the modeling assumptions and their applicability to reflect the catastrophic loss potential of our various businesses. In addition, we maintain minimum data quality standards that must be met in order to quote and bind business. The aggregation of risk across units, products, perils and geography is performed across our organization on a quarterly basis to provide an overall assessment of risk and the results reviewed by senior management each quarter. Management maintains a prudent level of risk through a series of related accumulation thresholds that cap the net retention from single or multiple events, the probability of exhaustion of core catastrophe reinsurance programs, and the net catastrophe loss relative to tangible capital (shareholders equity less goodwill). Third, where the risk / return economics are compelling, reinsurance is purchased from reinsurers of appropriate quality and security to protect the business unit level from accumulations arising either within product, peril or business unit or across a combination thereof such that the aggregate risk from a catastrophe loss is appropriate to the units capital structure. Despite the above controls, there remains uncertainty about the characteristics, timing and extent of insured loss given the nature of catastrophes.  Natural Catastrophe Reinsurance Program ACEs core catastrophe reinsurance program provides protection against natural catastrophes impacting its primary operations (i.e. excluding assumed reinsurance) and consists of two separate towers. First, for losses arising out of North America, our core traditional program renewed on January 1, 2007, and we purchased $125 million part of $350 million excess of $200 million in coverage and we purchased $161 million part of $250 million excess of $300 million in coverage. The combined effect of our traditional program purchase is that we have 100 percent of $250 million excess of $300 million in coverage placed and we have approximately 36 percent of the $100 million excess $200 million layer placed. Each of these layers has a single reinstatement. In addition, we have purchased multi year, peril specific coverage from a major reinsurer that is backed by their credit worthiness and the issuance of fully collateralized catastrophe bonds. Under this multi year coverage, we have $200 million of U.S. hurricane coverage in excess of $570 million retention. In addition, we have purchased U.S. earthquake coverage for California, Pacific Northwest, and Central U.S. This cover is 25 percent of $200 million of loss incurred in excess of a $570 million retention. Finally, we also purchased a combined US earthquake (as defined above) and U.S. hurricane top layer cover of 67 percent of $150 million of loss incurred in excess of a $770 million retention. These multiyear programs do not have a reinstatement feature. The Company also entered into a swap agreement whereby the Company received $100 million of U.S. earthquake (California, and Pacific Northwest) protection in exchange for providing its counterparty with protection for northeast U.S. hurricane exposure. Payments for each side of the swap would be triggered if, following a catastrophic event from a covered region and peril, the counter party and industry insured losses reach levels as specified in the swap contract. By way of comparison, the 2007 program has approximately $135 million more in coverage for U.S. hurricane and $185 million more in coverage for California earthquake than the expiring program. The actual retention for 2007 will depend upon the nature of the loss and the interplay between the underlying per risk programs and certain other coverages purchased by individual business units. Second, for losses arising outside of North America and effective July 1, 2006, we have protection of 100 percent of $250 million from a single catastrophic event in excess of the retention of $50 million with two reinstatements. There is further protection above this core program, (i.e., $200 million excess of $300 million for Asia Pacific and $100 million excess of $300 million for Europe). In addition, there are various underlying per risk and catastrophe treaties underlying the core programs retention of $50 million. The program has essentially the same terms as expiring but with the addition of the Europe specific layer. 72 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate cash flows sufficient to meet short term and long term cash requirements of its business operations. As a holding company, ACE possesses assets that consist primarily of the stock of its subsidiaries, and of other investments. In addition to net investment income, our cash flows currently depend primarily on dividends or other statutorily permissible payments. Historically, these dividends and other payments have come from ACEs Bermuda based operating subsidiaries, which we refer to as our Bermuda subsidiaries. As an insurance company, one of our principal responsibilities to our clients is to ensure that we have ready access to funds to settle large unforeseen claims. Given anticipated growth in premiums and a lengthening of the average duration of our claim liabilities due to a higher proportionate growth in long tail relative to short tail business, we expect that positive cash flow from operations (underwriting activities and investment income) will be sufficient to cover cash outflows under most loss scenarios through 2007. To further ensure the sufficiency of funds to settle unforeseen claims, we hold a certain amount of invested assets in cash and short term investments and maintain available credit facilities (refer to the section entitled Credit Facilities below). In addition, for certain insurance, reinsurance, or deposit contracts that tend to have relatively large and reasonably predictable cash outflows, such as loss portfolio contracts, we attempt to establish dedicated portfolios of assets that are duration matched with the related liabilities. With respect to the duration of our overall investment portfolio, we manage asset durations to both maximize return given current market conditions and provide sufficient liquidity to cover future loss payments. In a low interest rate environment, the overall duration of our fixed maturity investments tends to be shorter and in a high interest rate environment, such durations tend to be longer. Given the current low rate environment, at December 31, 2006, the average duration of our fixed maturity investments (3.3 years) is less than the average expected duration of our insurance liabilities (4 years). Despite our safeguards, if paid losses accelerated beyond our ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows, we might need to either liquidate a portion of our investment portfolio or arrange for financing. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could include several significant catastrophes occurring in a relatively short period of time or large scale uncollectible reinsurance recoverables on paid losses (as a result of coverage disputes, reinsurers credit problems or decreases in the value of collateral supporting reinsurance recoverables). Additional strain on liquidity could occur if the investments sold to fund loss payments were sold at depressed prices. Because each subsidiary focuses on a more limited number of specific product lines than is collectively available from the ACE Group of Companies, the mix of business tends to be less diverse at the subsidiary level. As a result, the probability of a liquidity strain, as described above, may be greater for individual subsidiaries than when liquidity is assessed on a consolidated basis. If such a liquidity strain were to occur in a subsidiary, we could liquidate a portion of the portfolio as well as be required to contribute capital to the particular subsidiary and or curtail dividends from the subsidiary to support holding company operations. The payments of dividends or other statutorily permissible distributions from our operating companies are subject to the laws and regulations applicable to each jurisdiction, as well as the need to maintain capital levels adequate to support the insurance and reinsurance operations, including financial strength ratings issued by independent rating agencies, which are discussed below. During 2006, we were able to meet all of our obligations, including the payment of dividends declared on our Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares, with our net cash flow and dividends received. Should the need arise, we generally have access to the capital markets and other available credit facilities. We assess which subsidiaries to draw dividends from based on a number of factors. Considerations such as regulatory and legal restrictions as well as the subsidiarys financial condition are paramount to the dividend decision. The legal restrictions on the payment of dividends from retained earnings by our Bermuda subsidiaries are currently satisfied by the share capital and additional paid in capital of each of the Bermuda subsidiaries. In 2006, ACE Bermuda declared and paid dividends of $491 million and ACE Tempest Life Reinsurance declared and paid dividends of $125 million. During 2005, ACE Bermuda and ACE Tempest Life Reinsurance declared and paid dividends of $548 million and $32 million, respectively. We expect that a majority of our cash inflows in 2007 will be from our Bermuda subsidiaries. The payment of any dividends from ACE Global Markets or its subsidiaries is subject to applicable U.K. insurance laws and regulations. In addition, the release of funds by Syndicate 2488 to subsidiaries of ACE Global Markets is subject to regulations promulgated by the Society of Lloyds. ACE INAs U.S. insurance subsidiaries may pay dividends, without prior regulatory approval, subject to restrictions set out in state law of the subsidiarys domicile (or, if applicable, commercial domicile). Typically, restrictions state that dividends may only be paid from earned surplus 73 Table of Contents (unassigned funds) and are subject to (i) certain limitations based upon the policyholder surplus and or net income or investment income of the insurer (specific threshold set by state law of insurers domicile); (ii) total dividends paid during a twelve month period, and (iii) the maintenance of minimum capital requirements. ACE INAs international subsidiaries are also subject to insurance laws and regulations particular to the countries in which the subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations sometimes include restrictions that limit the amount of dividends payable without prior approval of regulatory insurance authorities. ACE did not receive any dividends from ACE Global Markets or ACE INA in 2006 and 2005. The debt issued by ACE INA to provide partial financing for the ACE INA acquisition and for other operating needs is serviced by statutorily permissible distributions by ACE INAs insurance subsidiaries to ACE INA as well as other group resources. Our consolidated sources of funds consist primarily of net premiums written, net investment income and proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. Funds are used primarily to pay claims, operating expenses, dividends, debt service and for the purchase of investments. After satisfying our cash requirements, excess cash flows from these underwriting and investing activities are invested. Our insurance and reinsurance operations provide liquidity in that premiums are received in advance, sometimes substantially in advance, of the time claims are paid. Generally, cash flows are affected by claim payments that, due to the nature of our operations, may be comprised of large loss payments on a limited number of claims and which can fluctuate significantly from period to period. The irregular timing of these loss payments can create significant variations in cash flows from operations between periods. Refer to Contractual obligations and commitments for our estimate for future claim payments by period. Sources of liquidity include cash from operations, routine sales of investments and financing arrangements. The following is a discussion of our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Our consolidated net cash flows from operating activities were $4.1 billion in 2006, compared with $4.3 billion in 2005. These amounts reflect net income for each period, adjusted for non cash items and changes in working capital. Net income increased to $2.3 billion in 2006, compared with $1 billion in 2005. For 2006, significant adjustments included increases in unpaid losses and loss expenses and unearned premiums of $1 billion and a decrease in reinsurance recoverable of $766 million due to growth in casualty and A&H lines. Net cash flows from operating activities were negatively impacted by increased catastrophe loss payments in 2006 and 2005. Our consolidated net cash flows used for investing activities were $3.8 billion in 2006, compared with $5.6 billion in 2005. For the indicated periods, net cash flows used for investing activities were related principally to net purchases of fixed maturities. The 2006 year included the impact of the sale of the run off companies which reduced cash and investments by approximately $500 million. In 2005, net cash flows used for investing activities benefited from the net proceeds of the public offering of approximately $1.5 billion. Our consolidated net cash flows used for financing activities were $284 million in 2006, compared with consolidated net cash flows from financing activities of $1.3 billion in 2005. Net cash flows used for financing activities in 2006 were primarily comprised of dividends paid on Ordinary Shares, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of options for Ordinary Shares. In 2005, cash flows from financing activities were primarily comprised of the net proceeds of the public offering, partially offset by dividends paid on Ordinary Shares. Both internal and external forces influence our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Claim settlements, premium levels and investment returns may be impacted by changing rates of inflation and other economic conditions. In many cases, significant periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, may lapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us and the settlement of the liability for that loss. We believe that our cash balances, cash flow from operations, routine sales of investments and the liquidity provided by our credit facilities, as discussed below, are adequate to meet expected cash requirements. In order to enhance cash management efficiency, during 2006, we entered into agreements with a bank provider to implement an international multi currency notional cash pooling program and a U.S. multi currency notional cash pooling program. In each program, participating ACE entities (based on regulatory approval) establish deposit accounts in different currencies with the bank provider and, each day, the credit or debit balances in every account are notionally translated into a single currency (U.S. dollars) and then notionally pooled. The bank extends overdraft credit to any participating ACE entity as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in each pool at the end of each day is at least zero. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not co mingled between legal entities. This arrangement is particularly effective during periods of short term timing mismatches between expected inflows and outflows of cash by currency. ACE entities may incur overdraft balances as a means to address such mismatches, and any overdraft balances incurred under this program by an ACE entity would be guaran 74 Table of Contents teed by ACE Limited (up to $150 million in the aggregate). ACE Limited has negotiated a dedicated credit facility to support both programs. ACE Limited and its subsidiaries are assigned debt and financial strength (insurance) ratings from internationally recognized rating agencies, including S&P, A.M. Best, Moodys Investors Service and Fitch. The ratings issued on our companies by these agencies are announced publicly and are available directly from the agencies. Our Internet site, www.acelimited.com, also contains some information about our ratings, which can be found under the Investor Information tab. Financial strength ratings represent the opinions of the rating agencies on the financial strength of a company and its capacity to meet the obligations of insurance policies. Independent ratings are one of the important factors that establish our competitive position in the insurance markets. The rating agencies consider many factors in determining the financial strength rating of an insurance company, including the relative level of statutory surplus necessary to support the business operations of the company. These ratings are based upon factors relevant to policyholders, agents and intermediaries and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities. Debt ratings apply to short term and long term debt as well as preferred stock. These ratings are assessments of the likelihood that we will make timely payments of principal, interest and preferred stock dividends. It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies may reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs, and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. In addition, our insurance and reinsurance operations could be adversely impacted by a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, including a possible reduction in demand for our products in certain markets. Capital Resources Capital resources consist of funds deployed, or available to be deployed, to support our business operations. The following table summarizes the components of our capital resources at December 31, 2006 and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) December 312006 December 312005 Short term debt $ 578 $ 300 Long term debt 1,560 1,811 Total debt 2,138 2,111 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Preferred Shares 557 557 Ordinary shareholders equity 13,721 11,255 Total shareholders equity 14,278 11,812 Total capitalization $ 16,725 $ 14,232 Ratio of debt to total capitalization 12.8% 14.8% Ratio of debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization 14.6% 17.0% We believe our financial strength provides us with the flexibility and capacity to obtain funds externally through debt or equity financing on both a short term and long term basis. Our ability to access the capital markets is dependent on, among other things, market conditions and our perceived financial strength. We have accessed both the debt and equity markets from time to time. Short term Debt We have commercial paper programs that use revolving credit facilities as back up facilities and provide for up to $600 million in commercial paper issuance for each of ACE Limited and ACE INA Holdings, Inc. (subject to the availability of back up facilities, which currently total $600 million). At December 31, 2006, there was no commercial paper outstanding. Short term debt consisted of $500 million of 6.0 percent senior notes due April 2007 and a $78 million 6.15 percent term loan due December 2007. 75 Table of Contents Long term Debt During the first quarter of 2007 we issued, at a slight discount, $500 million of 5.7 percent senior notes due 2017. We plan to use the net proceeds from this issuance together with available cash to repay $500 million of indebtedness maturing in April 2007. Long term debt includes $300 million, 6.7 percent senior notes due 2036, issued at a slight discount in 2006. The net proceeds together with available cash were used to repay the $300 million, 8.3 percent notes which matured in August 2006. Our total long term debt of $1.6 billion is described in detail in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following instruments have specific collateral triggers. In 1998, ACE US Holdings issued $250 million of unsecured senior notes that mature in October 2008. In December 1999, ACE INA issued $300 million of unsecured subordinated notes that mature in December 2009; we repaid $100 million of this outstanding amount during 2002. We have a $450 million credit default swap in place that has the economic effect of reducing our cost of borrowing associated with these two issuances. The minimum collateral in connection with the credit default swap is $158 million. The actual collateral can be higher depending on the credit quality of securities pledged. Under these transactions, we would be required to provide collateral of $450 million if S&P downgraded our debt rating to BB+ or lower or downgraded ACE Bermudas financial strength rating to BBB or lower. Although there can be no assurance, we believe it is unlikely that either of these two events will occur. In the event that we terminate either of the swaps prematurely, we would be liable for certain transaction costs. The counter party in each swap is a highly rated major financial institution and management does not anticipate non performance.  Trust Preferred Securities During 1999 and 2000, we issued $800 million of trust preferred securities. The funds generated from these issues were used to partially finance the ACE INA acquisition. In 2002, $400 million of the trust preferred securities matured and were repaid. In 2005 and 2004, we repaid an additional $175 million ($100 million ACE INA trust preferred securities in 2005 and $75 million Capital Re trust preferred securities in 2004). The securities outstanding consist of $300 million of trust preferred securities due in 2030, issued by a special purpose entity (a trust) that is wholly owned by us. The sole assets of the special purpose entities are debt instruments issued by one or more of our subsidiaries. The special purpose entity looks to payments on the debt instruments to make payments on the preferred securities. We have guaranteed the payments on these debt instruments. The trustees of the trust include one or more of our officers and at least one independent trustee, such as a trust company. Our officers serving as trustees of the trust do not receive any compensation or other remuneration for their services in such capacity. The full $309 million of outstanding trust preferred securities (calculated as $300 million as discussed above plus our equity share of the trust) is shown on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability. Additional information with respect to the trust preferred securities is contained in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Ordinary Shares Total shareholders equity increased $2.5 billion in 2006, primarily due to net income of $2.3 billion and unrealized appreciation on our investment portfolio, partially offset by dividends declared. Our ratios of debt to total capitalization and debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization have decreased due to the increase in shareholders equity and stable debt and trust preferred securities. In October 2005, we completed a public offering of 32.91 million Ordinary Shares for total gross proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion. As part of our capital management program, in November 2001, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of any ACE issued debt or capital securities including Ordinary Shares, up to $250 million. At December 31, 2006, this authorization had not been utilized. We generally maintain shelf capacity at all times in order to allow capital market access for refinancing as well as for unforeseen capital needs. Consistent with this policy, in 2005, we filed an unlimited shelf registration which expires in December 2008. On January 12, 2006, and April 13, 2006, we paid dividends of 23 cents per ordinary share to shareholders of record on December 30, 2005 and March 31, 2006, respectively. On July 14, 2006, October 13, 2006, and January 12, 2007, we paid dividends of 25 cents per share to shareholders of record on June 30, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 29, 2006, respectively. We have paid dividends each quarter since we became a public company in 1993. However, the declaration, payment and value of future dividends on ordinary shares is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our profits, financial requirements and other factors including legal restrictions 76 Table of Contents on the payment of dividends and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. Dividends on the preferred shares are payable quarterly when, and if, declared by our Board of Directors, in arrears on March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1 of each year. In 2006, we paid dividends of $4.875 per preferred share on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1, to shareholders of record on February 28, May 31, August 31 and November 30, respectively.  Contractual Obligations and Commitments The table below shows our contractual obligations and commitments including our payments due by period at December 31, 2006: Payments Due By Period (in millions of U.S. dollars) Total Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After5 Years Payment amounts determinable from the respective contracts Deposit liabilities $ 335 $ 60 $ 116 $ 84 $ 75 Purchase obligations 351 71 193 87 Limited partnerships funding commitments 303 303 Operating leases 357 59 101 79 118 Short term debt 578 578 Long term debt 1,560 649 911 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Interest on debt obligations 1,812 137 234 186 1,255 Total obligations in which payment amounts are determinable from the respective contracts 5,605 905 1,596 436 2,668 Payment amounts not determinable from the respective contracts Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts 35,517 8,181 9,245 5,176 12,915 Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits 1,671 105 205 206 1,155 Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 42,793 $ 9,191 $ 11,046 $ 5,818 $ 16,738 The above table excludes pension obligations and our Preferred Shares. Minimum funding requirements for our pension obligations are immaterial over the next year. Subsequent funding commitments are apt to vary due to many factors and are difficult to estimate at this time. Our Preferred Shares, issued in 2003, have no fixed repayment terms. We may redeem the Preferred Shares at any time after May 30, 2008, at a redemption value of $25 per depository share (each of which represent one tenth of one Preferred Share) or at any time under certain limited circumstances. Refer to Notes 13 and 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our Preferred Shares and pension plans, respectively. We have no other significant contractual obligations or commitments not reflected in the table above. Deposit Liabilities Deposit liabilities include reinsurance deposit liabilities of $225 million and $212 million and contract holder deposit funds of $110 million and $138 million for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The reinsurance deposit liabilities arise from contracts we sold for which there is not a significant transfer of risk. At contract inception, the deposit liability is equal to net cash we received. An accretion rate is established based on actuarial estimates whereby the deposit liability is increased to the estimated amount payable over the term of the contract. The deposit accretion rate is the rate of return required to fund expected future payment obligations. We periodically reassess the estimated ultimate liability and related expected rate of return. Any resulting changes to the amount of the deposit liability are reflected as an adjustment to earnings to reflect the cumulative effect of the period the contract has been in force, and by an adjustment to the future accretion rate of the liability over the remaining estimated contract term. Additional information with respect to deposit liabilities is contained in Note 2 j) to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 77 Table of Contents Purchase Obligations We are party to enforceable and legally binding agreements to purchase certain services. Purchase obligations in the table primarily comprise audit fees and agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. Limited Partnerships Funding Commitments In connection with our investments in limited partnerships, we have commitments that may require funding of up to $303 million over the next several years. The timing of the payment of these commitments is uncertain and will differ from our estimated timing in the table. Operating Lease Commitments We lease office space in most countries in which we operate under operating leases that expire at various dates through December 2033. We renew and enter into new leases in the ordinary course of business as required. Estimated Gross Loss Payments under Insurance and Reinsurance Contracts We are obligated to pay claims under insurance and reinsurance contracts for specified loss events covered under those contracts. Such loss payments represent our most significant future payment obligation as a P&C insurance and reinsurance company. In contrast to other contractual obligations, cash payments are not determinable from the terms specified within the contract. For example, we do not ultimately make a payment to our counterparty for many insurance and reinsurance contracts (i.e., when a loss event has not occurred) and if a payment is to be made, the amount and timing cannot be determined from the contract. In the table above, we estimate payments by period relating to our gross liability for unpaid losses and loss expenses included in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006 and do not take reinsurance recoverables into account. These estimated loss payments are inherently uncertain and the amount and timing of actual loss payments are likely to differ from these estimates and the differences could be material. Given the numerous factors and assumptions involved in both estimates of loss and loss expense reserves and related estimates as to the timing of future loss and loss expense payments in the table above, differences between actual and estimated loss payments will not necessarily indicate a commensurate change in ultimate loss estimates. Estimated Payments for Future Life and Annuity Policy Benefits We establish reserves for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts including, but not limited to, guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDBs) and GMIBs. The amounts in the table are gross of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts. The liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet is discounted and, with respect to GMIB reinsurance, reflected net of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts, and with respect to GMDB reinsurance, does not consider benefit payments related to future fees or premiums not recognized through the balance sheet date. Accordingly, the estimated amounts in the table exceed the liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet. Payment amounts related to these reserves must be estimated and are not determinable from the contract. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing and amount of these payments, actual results could materially differ from the estimates in the table. Credit Facilities As our Bermuda subsidiaries are not admitted insurers and reinsurers in the U.S., the terms of certain U.S. insurance and reinsurance contracts require them to provide LOCs to clients. In addition, ACE Global Markets is required to satisfy certain U.S. regulatory trust fund requirements which can be met by the issuance of LOCs. LOCs may also be used for general corporate purposes and for Funds at Lloyds. 78 Table of Contents The following table shows our credit facilities by credit line, usage, expiry date and purpose at December 31, 2006. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Credit Line1 Usage Expiry Date Unsecured Liquidity Facilities ACE Limited2 $ 600 $ 264 Dec. 2010 ACE Limited3 50 March 2007 Secured Operational LOC Facilities ACE Limited 500 299 July 2010 Other4 72 72 Various Unsecured Operational LOC Facilities ACE Limited 1,000 781 July 2010 Unsecured Capital Facilities ACE Limited5 744 699 Dec. 2012 Total $ 2,966 $ 2,115 (1) Certain facilities are guaranteed by operating subsidiaries and or ACE Limited. (2) Commercial paper back up facility may also be used for LOCs. (3) Cash pooling back up facility. (4) These facilities are issued in the name of ACE European Group Limited, Lloyds Syndicate 2488 and Century Indemnity Reinsurance Company. (5) Supports ACE Global Markets underwriting capacity for Lloyds Syndicate 2488. With the exception of the LOC facilities noted under Other, the facilities noted above require that we maintain certain covenants, all of which have been met at December 31, 2006. These covenants include: (i) maintenance of a minimum consolidated net worth in an amount not less than the Minimum Amount. For the purpose of this calculation, the Minimum Amount is an amount equal to the sum of the base amount (currently $8 billion) plus 25 percent of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter, ending after the date on which the current base amount became effective, plus 50 percent of any increase in consolidated net worth during the same period, attributable to the issuance of Ordinary and Preferred Shares. The Minimum Amount is subject to an annual reset provision; and (ii) maintenance of a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of not greater than 0.35 to 1. Under this covenant, debt does not include trust preferred securities or mezzanine equity, except where the ratio of the sum of trust preferred securities and mezzanine equity to total capitalization is greater than 15 percent. In this circumstance, the amount greater than 15 percent would be included in the debt to total capitalization ratio. At December 31, 2006, (a) the minimum consolidated net worth requirement under the covenant described in (i) above was $8.6 billion and our actual consolidated net worth as calculated under that covenant was $13.7 billion and (b) our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 0.13 to 1. In addition to these covenants, the ACE Global Markets capital facility requires that collateral be posted if the financial strength rating of ACE falls to S&P BBB+ or lower. Our failure to comply with the covenants under any credit facility would, subject to grace periods in the case of certain covenants, result in an event of default. This could require us to repay any outstanding borrowings or to cash collateralize LOCs under such facility. A failure by ACE Limited (or any of its subsidiaries) to pay an obligation due for an amount exceeding $50 million would result in an event of default under all of the facilities described above. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 p) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 79 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Market Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. We are exposed to potential losses from various market risks including changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Further, through the writings of certain products such as credit derivatives (through our approximately 28 percent ownership of Assured Guaranty) and GMIB and GMDB products, we are exposed to deterioration in the credit markets, decreases in interest rates and declines in the equity markets. Our investment portfolio consists of both fixed income and equity securities, denominated in both U.S. dollars and foreign currencies, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our fixed income and all of our equity securities are classified as available for sale and, as such, changes in interest rates, equity prices or foreign currency exchange rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Nevertheless, changes in interest rates and equity prices affect consolidated net income when, and if, a security is sold or impaired. From time to time, we also use investment derivative instruments such as futures, options, interest rate swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage the duration of our investment portfolio and foreign currency exposures and also to obtain exposure to a particular financial market. In addition, as part of our investing activity, we purchase TBAs. These instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are sensitive to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity security prices. Changes in the fair value of TBAs are included in net realized gains (losses) and therefore have an immediate effect on both our net income and shareholders equity. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our notional exposure to investment derivative instruments was $16 billion and $17 billion, respectively. We seek to mitigate market risk using a number of techniques, including maintaining and managing the assets and liabilities of our international operations consistent with the foreign currencies of the underlying insurance and reinsurance businesses, thereby limiting exchange rate risk to net assets denominated in foreign currencies. Also, from time to time, we enter into derivative financial instruments for the purpose of managing certain investment portfolio exposures. The following is a discussion of our primary market risk exposures at December 31, 2006. Our policies to address these risks in 2006 were not materially different from 2005. We do not currently anticipate significant changes in our primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. Interest rate risk Our exposure to interest rate risk is primarily concentrated in our fixed income portfolio, our debt obligations and, to a lesser extent, our GMIB reinsurance business. Changes in investment values attributable to interest rate changes are mitigated by corresponding and partially offsetting changes in the economic value of our insurance reserves and debt obligations. We monitor this exposure through periodic reviews of our asset and liability positions. The following table shows the impact on the market value of our fixed income portfolio of an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points applied instantly across the yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario) at December 31, 2006 and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) December 312006 December 312005 Fair value of fixed income portfolio $ 34,011 $ 29,639 Pre tax impact of 100 basis point increase in interest rates $ 1,062 $ 824 Percentage of total fixed income portfolio at fair value 3.1% 2.8% Changes in interest rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Although our debt, preferred shares, and trust preferred securities (collectively referred to as debt obligations) are reported at amortized value and not adjusted for fair value changes, changes in interest rates could have a material impact on their fair value, albeit there is no immediate impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The 80 Table of Contents following table shows the impact on the market value of our debt obligations of a decrease in interest rates of 100 basis points applied instantly across the yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario) at December 31, 2006 and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) December 312006 December 312005 Fair value of debt obligations $ 3,219 $ 3,210 Impact of 100 basis point decrease in interest rates $ 257 $ 228 Percentage of total debt obligations at fair value 8.0% 7.1% Variations in market interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of prepayments due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual results could differ from those reflected in the tables. Our net income is directly impacted by changes in the fair value of GMIBs. Net realized gains of $nil and $18 million were reported for GMIB reinsurance in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The change in the fair value of GMIBs is determined using internal valuation models. Such valuations require considerable judgment and are subject to significant uncertainty. The valuation of these products is subject to fluctuations arising from, among other factors, changes in interest rates, changes in the equity markets and changes in the allocation of the investments underlying annuitants account value. These models and the related assumptions are continually reviewed by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon improvements in modeling techniques and availability of more timely information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. Including the effect of hedge derivatives, we estimate that based on in force annuities covered by GMIB reinsurance treaties at December 31, 2006, a downward parallel shift of the yield curve of 100 basis points would result in an unrealized loss of approximately $79 million. This estimated change in fair value would be recorded as net realized losses in our net income. The gain or loss created by the estimated fair value adjustment will rise or fall each period based on estimated market pricing and may not be an indication of ultimate claims. Equity price risk Our portfolio of equity securities, which we carry on our balance sheet at fair value, has exposure to price risk. This risk is defined as the potential loss in fair value resulting from adverse changes in stock prices. In addition, we attain exposure to the equity markets through the use of derivative instruments, which also have exposure to price risk. Our U.S. equity portfolio is correlated with the S&P 500 index and changes in that index would approximate the impact on our portfolio. Our international equity portfolio has exposure to a broad range of non U.S. equity markets. The following table provides more information on our exposure to equity price risk at December 31, 2006 and 2005. (millions of U.S. dollars) December 312006 December 312005 Fair value of equity securities $ 1,713 $ 1,507 Pre tax impact of 10 percent decline in market prices for equity exposures $ 171 $ 151 Changes in the fair value of our equity portfolio are recorded as unrealized appreciation (depreciation) and are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. As discussed above, our net income is directly impacted by changes in the fair value of GMIBs. Including the effect of hedge derivatives, we estimate that based on in force annuities covered by GMIB reinsurance treaties at December 31, 2006, a 10 percent decline in the S&P index would result in an unrealized loss of approximately $11 million. This estimated change in fair value would be recorded as net realized losses in our consolidated statement of operations. The gain or loss created by the estimated fair value adjustment will rise or fall each period based on estimated market pricing and may not be an indication of ultimate claims. 81 Table of Contents Foreign currency exchange rate risk Many of our non U.S. companies maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Therefore, foreign exchange rate risk is generally limited to net assets denominated in those foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. Locally required capital levels are invested in home currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk for us are the British pound sterling, the Euro dollar and the Canadian dollar. The following table provides more information on our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk at December 31, 2006 and 2005. (millions of U.S. dollars) December 312006 December 312005 Fair value of net assets denominated in foreign currencies $ 1,251 $ 995 Percentage of fair value of total net assets 8.8 % 8.4 % Pre tax impact on equity of hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of U.S. dollar $ 114 $ 90 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity and capital resources as of and for the year ended December 31, 2006. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes presented on pages F 1 to F 72 of this Form 10 K. Overview ACE Limited (ACE) is a Bermuda based holding company incorporated with limited liability under the Cayman Islands Companies Law. ACE and its direct and indirect subsidiaries are a global property and casualty insurance and reinsurance organization, servicing the insurance needs of commercial and individual customers in more than 140 countries and jurisdictions. Our product and geographic diversification differentiates us from the vast majority of our competitors and has been a source of stability during periods of industry volatility. Our long term business strategy focuses on sustained growth in book value achieved through a combination of underwriting and investment income. By doing so, we provide value to our clients and shareholders through the utilization of our substantial capital base in the insurance and reinsurance markets. Our senior management team is well seasoned in the insurance industry and its attention to operational efficiency, maintaining balance sheet strength, and enforcing strong underwriting and financial discipline across the whole organization has laid the foundation for sustained earnings and book value growth. We are organized along a profit center structure by line of business and territory that does not necessarily correspond to corporate legal entities. Profit centers can access various legal entities, subject to licensing and other regulatory rules. Profit centers are expected to generate an underwriting income and appropriate risk adjusted returns. This corporate structure has facilitated the development of management talent by giving each profit centers senior management team the necessary autonomy within underwriting authorities to make operating decisions and create products and coverages needed by its target customer base. We are an underwriting organization and senior management is focused on delivering underwriting profit. We strive to achieve underwriting income by only writing policies which we believe adequately compensate us for the risk we accept. We will not sacrifice underwriting income for growth. Distinction in service is an additional area of focus and a means to set us apart from our competition. As an insurance and reinsurance company, we generate gross revenues from two principal sources: premiums and investment income. Cash flow is generated from premiums collected and investment income received less paid losses and loss expenses, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses. Invested assets are generally held in liquid, investment grade fixed income securities of relatively short duration. We invest in equity securities in the U.S. and international markets. A small portion of our assets are held in less liquid or higher risk assets in an attempt to achieve higher risk adjusted returns. Claims payments in any short term period are highly unpredictable due to the random nature of loss events and the timing of claims awards or settlements. The value of investments held to pay future claims is subject to market forces such as the level of interest rates, stock market volatility and credit events such as corporate defaults. The actual cost of claims is also volatile based on loss trends, inflation rates, court awards and catastrophes. We believe that our cash balances, our highly liquid investments, credit facilities and reinsurance protection provide sufficient liquidity to meet any unforeseen claim demands that might occur in the year ahead. The insurance industry is highly competitive, with many companies offering similar coverage. The rates, terms and conditions related to the products we offer have historically changed depending on the timing of the insurance cycle. During periods of excess underwriting capacity, as defined by availability of capital, competition can result in lower pricing and less favorable terms and conditions. During periods of reduced underwriting capacity, pricing and terms and conditions are generally more favorable. Industry losses from natural catastrophes were comparatively low in 2006. During 2005 and 2004, the insurance industry experienced unprecedented natural catastrophe losses primarily from severe hurricane activity. We incurred net pre tax catastrophe losses of $17 million in 2006, compared with $1.3 billion and $510 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. We believe that major hurricanes like Hurricane Katrina will increase in frequency and have adjusted the models we use to measure catastrophe risk to reflect this, which in turn led to an adjustment in the prices we charge. We also enacted a series of internal risk management activities as set forth by our Enterprise Risk Management Committee to temper the amount of catastrophe risk we will assume. In the U.S., state governments responsibility to approve rates insurers charge for certain catastrophe coverages is undermined by populist political pressure to 36 Table of Contents disallow rate increases, thereby distorting the true economic costs that should be borne by those living and working in catastrophe prone areas and forcing insurers to exit markets or restrict coverage. Insurance Industry Investigations and Related Matters Information on the insurance industry investigations and related matters is set forth in Note 12 f) to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements include amounts that, either by their nature or due to requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), are determined using best estimates and assumptions. While we believe that the amounts included in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect our best judgment, actual amounts could ultimately materially differ from those currently presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe the items that require the most subjective and complex estimates are: unpaid loss and loss expense reserves, including asbestos and environmental reserves (A&E); reinsurance recoverable, including our provision for uncollectible reinsurance; impairments to the carrying value of our investment portfolio; the valuation of deferred tax assets; the fair value of certain derivatives; the valuation of goodwill; and assessment of risk transfer for certain structured insurance and reinsurance contracts. We believe our accounting policies for these items are of critical importance to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion provides more information regarding the estimates and assumptions required to arrive at these amounts and should be read in conjunction with the sections entitled: Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities, Reinsurance, Investments, Net Realized Gains (Losses) and Other Income and Expense Items. Unpaid losses and loss expenses As an insurance and reinsurance company, we are required, by applicable laws and regulations and U.S. GAAP, to establish loss and loss expense reserves for the estimated unpaid portion of the ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses under the terms of our policies and agreements with our insured and reinsured customers. The estimate of the liabilities includes provision for claims that have been reported but unpaid at the balance sheet date (case reserves) and for future obligations from claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR) at the balance sheet date (IBNR may also include a provision for additional development on reported claims in instances where the case reserve is viewed to be insufficient). The loss reserve also includes an estimate of expenses associated with processing and settling these unpaid claims (loss expenses). At December 31, 2006, our unpaid loss and loss expense reserves were $35.5 billion. With the exception of certain structured settlements, for which the timing and amount of future claim payments are reliably determinable, our loss reserves are not discounted for time value. In connection with such structured settlements, we carry reserves of $118 million (net of discount). The table below presents a roll forward of our unpaid losses and loss expenses for the indicated periods. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Losses ReinsuranceRecoverable NetLosses Balance at December 31, 2004 $ 31,483 $ 13,966 $ 17,517 Losses and loss expenses incurred 13,319 4,748 8,571 Losses and loss expenses paid (8,745) (3,376) (5,369) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) (1,002) (741) (261) Balance at December 31, 2005 35,055 14,597 20,458 Losses and loss expenses incurred 9,902 2,832 7,070 Losses and loss expenses paid (9,230) (3,771) (5,459) Sale of certain run off reinsurance subsidiaries (789) (317) (472) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) 579 168 411 Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 35,517 $ 13,509 $ 22,008 37 Table of Contents The process of establishing loss reserves for property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments based on circumstances known at the date of accrual. The following table shows our total reserves segregated between case reserves and IBNR reserves at December 31, 2006 and 2005. December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Case reserves $ 15,592 $ 6,135 $ 9,457 $ 15,422 $ 5,889 $ 9,533 IBNR 19,925 7,374 12,551 19,633 8,708 10,925 Total $ 35,517 $ 13,509 $ 22,008 $ 35,055 $ 14,597 $ 20,458 The following table segregates the loss reserves by components including property and all other, casualty and personal accident (A&H) at December 31, 2006 and 2005. In the table below, loss expenses are defined to include unallocated loss adjustment expenses and allocated loss adjustment expenses. For certain lines, in particular ACE International products, loss adjustment expenses are included in IBNR and not broken out separately. December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Property and all other Case reserves $ 3,137 $ 1,306 $ 1,831 $ 2,961 $ 952 $ 2,009 Loss expenses 167 34 133 157 23 134 IBNR 2,509 979 1,530 3,120 1,701 1,419 Subtotal 5,813 2,319 3,494 6,238 2,676 3,562 Casualty Case reserves 8,889 3,255 5,634 9,581 3,697 5,884 Loss expenses 3,023 1,469 1,554 2,368 1,152 1,216 IBNR 16,926 6,268 10,658 16,054 6,814 9,240 Subtotal 28,838 10,992 17,846 28,003 11,663 16,340 A&H Case reserves 351 69 282 335 65 270 Loss expenses 25 2 23 20 20 IBNR 490 127 363 459 193 266 Subtotal 866 198 668 814 258 556 Total Case reserves 12,377 4,630 7,747 12,877 4,714 8,163 Loss expenses 3,215 1,505 1,710 2,545 1,175 1,370 IBNR 19,925 7,374 12,551 19,633 8,708 10,925 Total $ 35,517 $ 13,509 $ 22,008 $ 35,055 $ 14,597 $ 20,458 The judgments used to estimate unpaid loss and loss expense reserves require different considerations depending upon the individual circumstances underlying the insured loss. For example, the reserves established for an excess casualty claim, asbestos and environmental claims, losses from major catastrophic events or the IBNR for product lines will each require different assumptions and judgments to be made. Necessary judgments are based on numerous factors, and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methodologies are developed or as current laws change. Hence, ultimate loss payments will differ from the estimate of the ultimate liability made at the balance sheet date. Changes to our previous estimates of prior year loss reserves can impact the reported calendar year underwriting results by worsening our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be deficient or improving our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be redundant. The potential for variation in loss reserves is impacted by numerous factors, which we explain below. We establish loss and loss expense reserves to cover our liabilities from claims for all of the insurance and reinsurance business that we write. For those claims reported by insureds or ceding companies to the Company prior 38 Table of Contents to the balance sheet date, case reserves are established by claims personnel as appropriate based on the circumstances of the claim(s), standard claim handling practices and professional judgment. In respect of those claims that have been incurred but not reported prior to the balance sheet date, there is by definition limited actual information to form the reserve estimate and reliance is placed upon historical loss experience and actuarial methods to project the ultimate loss obligations and the corresponding amount of IBNR. Furthermore, for our assumed reinsurance operation, Global Reinsurance, an additional case reserve may sometimes be established above the amount notified by the ceding company if the notified case reserve is judged to be insufficient by Global Reinsurances claims department (refer to Assumed Reinsurance, below). We have actuarial staff within each of our operating segments who analyze loss reserves and regularly project estimates of ultimate losses and the required IBNR reserve. IBNR reserve estimates are generally calculated by first projecting the ultimate amount of expected claims for a product line and subtracting paid losses and case reserves for reported claims. The judgments involved in projecting the ultimate losses may involve the use and interpretation of various actuarial projection methods as well as more qualitative factors that may impact the ultimate value of the losses such as actual loss experience, loss development patterns, and industry data. In addition, since standard actuarial projection methods place reliance on the extrapolation of historical data and patterns, the estimate of the IBNR reserve also requires judgment by actuaries and management to consider the impact from more contemporary and subjective factors. Amongst some of the factors that might be considered are changes in business mix or volume, changes in ceded reinsurance structures, reported and projected loss trends, inflation, legal environment and the terms and conditions of the contracts sold to our insured parties. Typically for each product line, one or more standard actuarial reserving methods may be used to estimate ultimate losses and loss expenses and from these estimates a single point estimate is selected. Exceptions to the use of standard actuarial projection methods occur for individual claims of significance that require complex legal, claims and actuarial analysis and judgment (for example, A&E account projections or high excess casualty accounts in litigation). In addition, claims arising from catastrophic events require evaluation based upon our exposure at the time of the event and the circumstances of the catastrophe and its post event impact that do not utilize standard actuarial loss projection methods. The standard actuarial reserving methods may include, but are not necessarily limited to, paid and reported loss development, expected loss ratio and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. A general description of these methods is provided below. In addition, we may use other recognized actuarial methods and approaches depending upon the product line characteristics and available data. The historical loss and premium data required for these projections should be sufficiently homogenous such that the projections of future loss emergence from historical loss development patterns are representative of the underlying business. For example, to improve data homogeneity, we may group product line data further by similar risk attribute (for example, geography, coverage such as property versus liability exposure or origin year), project losses for these homogenous groups and then combine these results to provide the overall product line estimate. The premium and loss data is aggregated by origin year (e.g., the year in which the losses were incurred or accident year) and annual or quarterly periods subsequent to the origin year. Implicit in the standard accepted actuarial methodologies that we generally utilize is the need for two fundamental assumptions: first, the expected loss ratio for each origin year (i.e., accident, report or underwriting) and second, the pattern in which losses are expected to emerge over time for each origin year. The expected loss ratio for any particular origin year is selected giving consideration to a number of potential factors including historical loss ratios adjusted for intervening premium and loss trends, industry benchmarks, the results of policy level loss modeling at the time of underwriting and other more subjective considerations of the product line and external environment as noted above. For the more recent origin years, the expected loss ratio for a given origin year is established at the start of the origin year as part of the planning process, this analysis is performed in conjunction with underwriters and management. The expected loss ratio method arrives at an ultimate loss estimate by taking this estimate of the initial expected ultimate loss ratio and multiplying by the corresponding premium base. This method is most commonly used for immature origin periods on product lines where the actual paid or reported loss experience is not yet credible enough to override our initial expectations of the ultimate loss ratio. In addition, the expected loss ratio may be modified should underlying assumptions such as loss trend or premium rate changes differ from the original assumptions, even if no credible loss experience has emerged. Our assumed paid and reported development patterns provide a benchmark against which the actual emerging loss experience can be monitored. Where possible, development patterns are selected based on historical loss 39 Table of Contents emergence by origin year with appropriate allowance for changes in business mix, claims handling process or ceded reinsurance that are likely to lead to a discernible difference between the rate of historical and future loss emergence. For product lines where the historical data is viewed to have low statistical credibility, the selected development patterns will also reflect relevant industry benchmarks and or experience from similar product lines written elsewhere in the Company. This typically arises for product lines that are relatively immature or high severity/low frequency portfolios and for which our historical experience exhibits considerable volatility and or lacks credibility. The paid and reported loss development methods convert the assumed loss emergence pattern to a set of multiplicative factors which are then applied to actual paid or reported losses to arrive at an estimate of ultimate losses for each period. Due to their multiplicative nature, the paid and reported loss development methods magnify deviations between actual and expected loss emergence. Therefore, these methods tend to be favored for more mature origin periods and for those portfolios where the loss emergence has been relatively consistent over time. The Bornhuetter Ferguson method is essentially a combination of the expected loss ratio method and the loss development method, under which the loss development method is given more weight as the origin year matures. This approach allows a logical transition between the expected loss ratio method which is generally utilized at earlier maturities and the loss development methods which are favored at latter maturities. We usually apply this method using reported loss data. The applicability of reserve methods will also be determined by the attachment point of the policy or contract with the insured or ceding company. In the case of low attachment points typical of primary or working layer reinsurance, the experience will tend to be more frequency driven. These product types allow for the standard actuarial methods to be used in determining loss reserve levels, as it is often customary to have the appropriate historical record and volume of claims experience to rely upon. In the case of high attachment points typical of excess or excess of loss reinsurance, the experience will tend to be severity driven, as only a loss of significant size will enter the layer. For structured or unique contracts, most common to the financial solutions business and, to a lesser extent, our reinsurance business, the standard actuarial methods need to be tempered with an analysis of each contracts terms, original pricing information, subsequent internal and external analyses of the ongoing contracts, market exposures and history, and qualitative input from claims managers. Our recorded reserves represent managements best estimate of the provision for future unpaid claims. Each product line has an actuarial reserve review performed and a provisional best estimate is established at the reviews conclusion. The process to select the provisional best estimate, when more than one estimate is available, may differ across product lines. However, the objective of such a process is to determine a single best estimate that we believe represents a better estimate than any other. Such an estimate is viewed to support the most likely outcome of ultimate loss settlements and is determined based on several factors including, but not limited to: segmentation of data to provide sufficient homogeneity and credibility for loss projection methods; extent of internal historical loss data, and industry where required; historical variability of loss estimates compared with actual loss experience; and nature and extent of underlying assumptions. Depending on the facts and circumstances of each product line, the determination of a single best estimate may be accomplished by selecting a single point estimate when one estimate is determined to reflect a better estimate than the other point estimates or using a probability weighted average approach when more than one estimate is viewed to be reasonable. For example, an actuary may base the selected estimate on loss projections developed using an incurred loss development approach instead of a paid loss development approach as the best estimate when reported losses are viewed to be a more credible indication of the ultimate loss compared with paid losses. The availability of estimates by different projection techniques will depend upon the product line, the underwriting circumstances and the maturity of the loss emergence. For a well established product line with sufficient volume and history, the selected best estimate may be drawn from a weighting of paid and reported loss development and or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. However, for a new long tailed product line with limited Company data and experience, the emerging loss experience will unlikely have sufficient stability to allow selection of loss development or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and reliance will be placed upon the initial expected loss ratio method as the selected best estimate until the experience matures. The actuaries evaluation process to determine a best estimate involves collaboration with underwriting, claims, legal and finance departments and culminates with the input of reserve committees. Each business unit reserve committee includes the participation of the relevant parties from actuarial, finance, claims and executive management and has the responsibility for finalizing and approving the point estimate to be used as our best estimate. Reserves are further 40 Table of Contents reviewed by ACEs Chief Actuary and senior management. Management does not build in any specific provision for uncertainty in addition to the actuaries best estimate in establishing reserves. We do not calculate a range of loss reserve estimates for our individual loss reserve studies. In particular, ranges are not necessarily a true reflection of the potential volatility between loss reserves estimated at the balance sheet date and the ultimate settlement value of losses. This is due to the fact that an actuarial range is developed based on known events as of the valuation date whereas actual volatility or prior period development has historically been reported in subsequent Consolidated Financial Statements, in part from events and circumstances that were unknown as of the original valuation date. While we believe that our recorded reserves are reasonable and represent managements best estimate for each individual study as of the current valuation date, future changes to our view of the ultimate liabilities are possible. If the past is any indication of the future and using recent actual claims emergence excluding A&E, we estimate that our carried loss reserves at December 31, 2006, are unlikely to differ from the ultimate settlement of these liabilities by more than ten percent of the currently recorded amounts, either positively or negatively. Historically, including A&E reserve charges, our reserves have developed in excess of ten percent of recorded amounts. Refer to Analysis of Losses and Loss Expense Development, under Item 1 for a summary of historical volatility between estimated loss reserves and ultimate loss settlements. We perform internal loss reserve studies for all product lines at least once a year; the timing of such studies varies throughout the year. External loss reserve studies are performed periodically and compared to our internal results. Additionally, for each product line, we review each quarter the emergence of actual losses relative to expectations used in reserving. If warranted from findings in loss emergence tests, we will accelerate the timing of our product line reserve studies. The time period between the date of loss occurrence and the final payment date of the ensuing claim(s) is referred to as the claim tail. The following is a discussion of specific reserving considerations for both short tail and long tail product lines. In this section we reference the nature of recent prior period development to give a high level understanding of how these considerations translate through the reserving process into financial decisions. Refer to Segment Operating Results for more information on prior period development. Short tail business Short tail business describes product lines for which losses are usually known and paid shortly after the loss actually occurs. This would include, for example, most property, personal accident, aviation hull and automobile physical damage policies that are written. Due to the short reporting development pattern for these product lines, our estimate of ultimate losses from any particular accident period responds quickly to the latest loss data. We will typically assign credibility to methods that incorporate actual loss emergence, such as the paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, sooner than would be the case for long tail lines at a similar stage of development from the origin year. The reserving process for short tail losses arising from catastrophic events typically involves the determination by the claims department, in conjunction with underwriters and actuaries, of our exposure and likely losses immediately following an event and the subsequent regular refinement of those losses as our insureds provide updated actual loss information. For short tail lines, the bulk of prior period development movements made in the 2006 calendar year related to the 2005 accident year. Specifically, the Insurance North American and Global Reinsurance segments experienced adverse development related to 2005 catastrophes and the Insurance Overseas General segment experienced favorable development due to lower than anticipated loss emergence during 2006. In both instances, these prior period movements were primarily the result of changes to the ultimate loss estimates for the 2005 accident year to better reflect the latest reported loss data rather than any changes to underlying actuarial assumptions. Long tail business Long tail business describes lines of business for which specific losses may not be known for some period and claims can take significant time to emerge. This includes most casualty lines such as general liability, directors and officers liability (D&O) and workers compensation. There are many factors contributing to the uncertainty and volatility of long tail business. Among these are: Given the recent expansion of this business, our historical loss data and experience is often too immature to place reliance upon for reserving purposes. Instead, particularly for newer lines of business, reserve methods are based on industry loss ratios or industry benchmark development patterns that are anticipated to reflect the nature and coverage of the underwritten business and its future development. For new or growing lines of business, actual loss 41 Table of Contents experience is apt to differ from industry loss statistics that are based on averages as well as loss experience of previous underwriting years; The inherent uncertainty of the estimated duration of the paid and reporting loss development patterns beyond the historical record requires that professional judgment be used in the determination of the length of the patterns based on the historical data and other information; The inherent uncertainty of assuming historical paid and reporting loss development patterns on older origin years will be representative of subsequent loss emergence on newer origin years. For example, changes in establishing case reserves can distort reported loss development patterns or changes in ceded reinsurance structures by origin year can distort the development of paid and reported losses; The possibility of future litigation, legislative or judicial change that might impact future loss experience relative to prior loss experience relied upon in loss reserve analyses; Loss reserve analyses typically require loss or other data be grouped by common characteristics in some manner. If data from two combined lines of business exhibit different characteristics, such as loss payment patterns, the credibility of the reserve estimate could be affected. Additionally, since casualty lines of business can have significant intricacies in the terms and conditions afforded to the insured, there is an inherent risk as to the homogeneity of the underlying data used in performing reserve analyses. The applicability of the price change data used to estimate ultimate loss ratios for most recent origin years. In contrast to short tail lines, the prior period development in 2006 for long tail lines of business arose across a number of accident years in the Insurance North American and Insurance Overseas General segments, typically more removed from the recent accident years. The movements were generally the result of actual loss emergence within the 2006 calendar year that differed materially from the expected loss emergence and these deviations were significant enough in certain product lines to warrant revising the projections. However, for a number of long tail portfolios, to the extent that actual loss emergence in calendar year 2006 differed from our expectation in the more recent origin years, the deviation was not seen as sufficiently credible to alter either our ultimate loss selections or the set of actuarial assumptions underlying the reserving review for that particular portfolio. Such judgments were made with due consideration to the factors impacting reserve uncertainty as discussed above. We continually evaluate our reserve estimates taking into account current information. We estimate the ultimate loss amounts by projecting losses as of the valuation date using loss development patterns derived from historical data. In addition, a tail factor is applied to the projected loss amount to reflect further potential development beyond the period of historical record. While we believe our reserve for unpaid losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2006, is adequate, new information or trends, such as judicial action broadening the scope of coverage or expanding liability, may lead to future developments in ultimate losses and loss expenses significantly greater or less than the reserve provided, which could have a material adverse effect on future operating results. Particularly significant variables for which a change in assumption could have a material effect on unpaid losses and loss expenses include, but are not limited to, the items discussed above. As noted previously, our best estimate of required loss reserves for most portfolios is judgmentally selected for each origin year after considering the results from any number of reserving methodologies rather than being a purely mechanical process. Therefore, it is difficult to convey, in a simple and quantitative manner, the impact that a change to a single assumption will have on our best estimate. In the examples shown below, we attempt to give an indication of the potential impact by isolating a single change for a specific reserving method that would be pertinent in establishing the best estimate for the product line described. We consider each of the following sensitivity analyses to represent a reasonably likely deviation in the underlying assumption. Insurance North American Given the long reporting and paid development pattern, the tail factors used to project actual current losses to ultimate losses for claims covered by our inactive middle market workers compensation business requires considerable judgment that could be material to consolidated loss and loss expense reserves. Specifically, when applying the paid loss development method, a one percent change in the tail factor (i.e., 1.04 changed to either 1.05 or 1.03) would cause a change of approximately $50 million, either positively or negatively, for the projected net loss and loss expense reserves. This is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $300 million. Our ACE Bermuda operations write predominantly high excess liability coverage on an occurrence first reported basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $300 million and limits of $100 million gross or less) and D&O and other professional liability coverage on a claims made basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $100 million 42 Table of Contents and limits of $50 million gross or less). Claims development for this business can vary significantly for individual claims and historically could vary by as much as $50 million per claim for professional liability and $100 million per claim for excess liability depending on the nature of the loss. Insurance Overseas General Certain long tail lines, such as casualty and professional lines, are particularly susceptible to changes in loss trend and claim inflation. Heightened perceptions of tort and settlement awards around the world are increasing the demand for these products as well as contributing to the uncertainty of the reserving estimates. Our reserving methods rely heavily on loss development patterns estimated from historical data and while we attempt to adjust such factors for known changes in the current tort environment, it is possible that such factors may not entirely reflect all recent trends in tort environments. For example, when applying the reported loss development method, the lengthening by six months of our selected loss development patterns would increase reserve estimates on long tail casualty and professional lines by approximately $240 million. This movement is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $3.0 billion. Global Reinsurance Typically, there is inherent uncertainty around the length of paid and reporting development patterns, especially for certain casualty lines such as excess workers compensation or general liability, which may take up to 30 years to fully develop. This uncertainty is accentuated by the need to supplement client development patterns with industry development patterns as justified by the credibility of the data. The underlying source and selection of the final development pattern can thus have a significant impact on the selected net losses and loss expenses ultimate. For example, a twenty percent slowing or quickening (shortening or lengthening as above) of the development patterns used for U.S. long tail lines would cause the loss reserve estimate derived by the reported Bornhuetter Ferguson method for these lines to change by approximately $115 million. This movement is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $1.4 billion. Assumed Reinsurance At December 31, 2006, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.6 billion, consisting of $778 million of case reserves and $1.8 billion of IBNR. In comparison, at December 31, 2005, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.4 billion, consisting of $790 million of case reserves and $1.6 billion of IBNR. Prior to 2000, our reinsurance operations had been concentrated in the property catastrophe reinsurance market. For catastrophe business, we principally estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses on an event basis by considering various sources of information, including specific loss estimates reported by our cedants, ceding company and overall industry loss estimates reported by our brokers, and our internal data regarding reinsured exposures related to the geographical location of the event. Our internal data analysis enables us to establish catastrophe reserves for known events with more certainty at an earlier date than would be the case if we solely relied on reports from third parties to determine carried reserves. In 2000, we began writing casualty lines of reinsurance in the United States, and to a lesser extent, Europe, Asia, and Australia. Given the long tail nature of this business, these new lines have both increased the amount of reserves in the Global Reinsurance segment as well as the uncertainty in the loss estimation process. For our casualty reinsurance business, we generally rely on ceding companies to report claims and then use that data as a key input to estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses. Due to the reliance on claims information reported by ceding companies, as well as other factors, the estimation of unpaid losses and loss expenses for assumed reinsurance includes certain risks and uncertainties that are unique relative to our direct insurance business. These include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: The reported claims information could be inaccurate; Typically, a lag exists between the reporting of a loss event to a ceding company and its reporting to us as a reinsurance claim. The use of a broker to transmit financial information from a ceding company to us increases the reporting lag. Because most of our reinsurance business is produced by brokers, ceding companies generally first submit claim and other financial information to brokers, who then report the proportionate share of such information to each reinsurer of a particular treaty. The reporting lag generally results in a longer period of time between the date a claim is incurred and the date a claim is reported compared with direct insurance operations. Therefore, the risk of 43 Table of Contents delayed recognition of loss reserve development is higher for assumed reinsurance than for direct insurance lines; The historical claims data for a particular reinsurance contract can be limited relative to our insurance business in that there may be less historical information available. Furthermore, for certain coverages provided by products, such as excess of loss contracts, there may be relatively few expected claims in a particular year so the actual number of claims may be susceptible to significant variability. In such cases, the actuary often relies on industry data from several recognized sources. We mitigate the above risks in several ways. In addition to routine analytical reviews of ceding company reports to ensure reported claims information appears reasonable, we perform regular underwriting and claims audits of certain ceding companies to ensure reported claims information is accurate, complete, and timely. As appropriate, audit findings are used to adjust claims in the reserving process. We also use our knowledge of the historical development of losses from individual ceding companies to adjust the level of adequacy we believe exists in the reported ceded losses. On occasion, there will be differences between our carried loss reserves and unearned premiums reserves and the amount of loss reserves and unearned premiums reserves reported by the ceding companies. This is due to the fact that we receive consistent and timely information from ceding companies only with respect to case reserves. For IBNR, we use historical experience and other statistical information, depending on the type of business, to estimate the ultimate loss (see Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses for more information). We estimate our unearned premiums reserve by applying estimated earning patterns to net premiums written for each treaty based upon that treatys coverage basis (i.e., risks attaching or losses occurring). At December 31, 2006, the case reserves reported to us by our ceding companies were $754 million, compared with the $778 million we recorded. Our policy is to post additional case reserves in addition to the amounts reported by our cedants when our evaluation of the ultimate value of a reported claim is different than the evaluation of that claim by our cedant. Within the Insurance North American segment, we also have exposure to certain liability reinsurance lines that have been in run off since 1994. Unpaid losses and loss expenses relating to this run off reinsurance business resides within the Brandywine Division of our Insurance North American segment. Most of the remaining unpaid losses and loss expense reserves for the run off reinsurance business relate to asbestos and environmental claims. (Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information.) Asbestos and Environmental Reserves Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are liabilities for asbestos and environmental claims and expenses (A&E). These claims are principally related to claims arising from remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites and bodily injury claims related to exposure to asbestos products and environmental hazards. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to the recent legal environment, including specific settlements that may be used as precedents to settle future claims. Our A&E reserves and our range of estimates are not discounted and do not reflect any anticipated changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. Accordingly, our A&E reserves make no allowance for future state or federal asbestos reforms, such as those currently being contemplated. During 2006, we conducted an internal, ground up review of our consolidated A&E liabilities as of June 30, 2006. During the same period, a team of external actuaries performed an evaluation as to the adequacy of the reserves of Century and those liabilities of ACE American Reinsurance Company (ACE American Re) retained and not sold. The Century external review was conducted in accordance with the Brandywine Restructuring Order, which requires that an external actuarial review of Centurys reserves be completed every two years. As a result of the internal review, we concluded that our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations were adequate and, therefore, no change to the carried net reserve was required, while the gross loss reserves increased by approximately $250 million. The conclusions of the external review provided estimates of ultimate gross and net Brandywine liabilities that are lower than the same study in 2004. As a result, the difference in net loss reserves between the internal and external studies has narrowed to approximately $150 million ($100 million after tax) from $300 million ($180 million after tax in 2004). There are many complex variables that we consider when estimating the reserves for our inventory of asbestos accounts and these variables may directly impact the predicted outcome. We believe the most significant variables relating to our A&E reserves include assumptions regarding trends with respect to claim severity and the frequency of higher severity claims, the ability of a claimant to bring a claim in a state in which they have no residency or exposure, the ability of a policyholder to claim the right to non products coverage, whether high level excess policies have the potential to be accessed given the policyholders claim trends and liability situation, and payments to unimpaired claimants and the potential liability of peripheral defendants. Based on the policies, the facts, the law and a careful 44 Table of Contents analysis of the impact that these factors will likely have on any given account, we estimate the potential liability for indemnity, policyholder defense costs and coverage litigation expense. The results in asbestos cases announced by other carriers may well have little or no relevance to us because coverage exposures are highly dependent upon the specific facts of individual coverage and resolution status of disputes among carrier, policyholder and claimants. Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information. Reinsurance recoverable Reinsurance recoverable includes the balances due to us from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses, and is presented net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is determined based upon a review of the financial condition of the reinsurers and other factors. We determine the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses using actuarial estimates as well as a determination of our ability to cede unpaid losses and loss expenses under existing reinsurance contracts. The recognition of a reinsurance recoverable asset requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves our estimation based on the amount of gross reserves and the percentage of that amount which may be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR, which is a major component of the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, is generally developed as part of our loss reserving process and consequently, its estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross IBNR (refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses). The second judgment involves our estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that we may ultimately be unable to recover from reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable asset and, in turn, shareholders equity. Changes in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance are reflected in net income. Although the contractual obligation of individual reinsurers to pay their reinsurance obligations is based on specific contract provisions, the collectability of such amounts requires estimation by management. The majority of the balance we have accrued as recoverable will not be due for collection until sometime in the future, in some cases several decades from now. Over this period of time, economic conditions and operational performance of a particular reinsurer may impact their ability to meet these obligations and while they may continue to acknowledge their contractual obligation to do so, they may not have the financial resources or willingness to fully meet their obligation to us. To estimate the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, the reinsurance recoverable must first be determined for each reinsurer. This determination is based on a process rather than an estimate, although an element of judgment must be applied. As part of the process, ceded IBNR is allocated to reinsurance contracts because ceded IBNR is not generally calculated on a contract by contract basis. The allocations are generally based on premiums ceded under reinsurance contracts, adjusted for actual loss experience and historical relationships between gross and ceded losses. If actual experience varies materially from historical experience, including that used to determine ceded premium, the allocation of reinsurance recoverable by reinsurer will change. While such change is unlikely to result in a large percentage change in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, it could, nevertheless, have a material effect on our net income in the period recorded. Generally, we use a default analysis to estimate uncollectible reinsurance. The primary components of the default analysis are reinsurance recoverable balances by reinsurer, net of collateral, and default factors used to estimate the probability that the reinsurer may be unable to meet its future obligations in full. The definition of collateral for this purpose requires some judgment and is generally limited to assets held in an ACE only beneficiary trust, letters of credit, and liabilities held by us with the same legal entity for which we believe there is a right of offset. We do not currently include multi beneficiary trusts. However, we have several reinsurers that have established multi beneficiary trusts for which certain of our companies are beneficiaries. The determination of the default factor is principally based on the financial strength rating of the reinsurer and a corresponding default factor applicable to the financial strength rating. Default factors require considerable judgment and are determined using the current financial strength rating, or rating equivalent, of each reinsurer as well as other key considerations and assumptions. Significant considerations and assumptions include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: For reinsurers that maintain a financial strength rating from a major rating agency, and for which recoverable balances are considered representative of the larger population (i.e., default probabilities are consistent with similarly rated reinsurers and payment durations conform to averages), the judgment exercised by management to determine 45 Table of Contents the provision for uncollectible reinsurance of each reinsurer is typically limited because the financial rating is based on a published source and the default factor we apply is based on a default factor of a major rating agency applicable to the particular rating class. Default factors applied for financial ratings of AAA, AA, A, BBB, BB, B and CCC, are 0.5 percent, 1.2 percent, 1.9 percent, 4.7 percent, 9.6 percent, 23.8 percent and 49.7 percent, respectively. Because the model we use is predicated on the default factors of a major rating agency, we do not generally consider alternative factors. However, when a recoverable is expected to be paid in a brief period of time by a highly rated reinsurer, such as certain property catastrophe claims, a default factor may not be applied; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are both unrated by a major rating agency and for which management is unable to determine a credible rating equivalent based on a parent, affiliate or peer company, we determine a rating equivalent based on an analysis of the reinsurer that considers an assessment of the creditworthiness of the particular entity, industry benchmarks, or other factors as considered appropriate. We then apply the applicable default factor for that rating class. For balances recoverable from unrated reinsurers for which our ceded reserve is below a certain threshold, we generally apply a default factor of 25 percent; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are either insolvent or under regulatory supervision, we establish a default factor and resulting provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on specific facts and circumstances surrounding each company. Upon initial notification of an insolvency, we generally recognize expense for a substantial portion of all balances outstanding, net of collateral, through a combination of write offs of recoverable balances and increases to the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. When regulatory action is taken on a reinsurer, we generally recognize a default factor by estimating an expected recovery on all balances outstanding, net of collateral. When sufficient credible information becomes available, we adjust the provision for uncollectible reinsurance by establishing a default factor pursuant to information received; For captives and other recoverables, management determines the provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on the specific facts and circumstances. The following table summarizes reinsurance recoverables and the provision for uncollectible reinsurance for each type of recoverable balance at December 31, 2006. (in millions of U.S. dollars) TotalReinsuranceRecoverables Recoverables(Net of UsableCollateral) Provision forUncollectibleReinsurance Type Reinsurers with credit ratings $ 11,739 $ 10,971 $ 207 Reinsurers not rated 673 541 229 Reinsurers under supervision and insolvent reinsurers 293 278 197 Captives 1,316 264 2 Other structured settlements and pools 1,208 1,206 14 Total $ 15,229 $ 13,260 $ 649 At December 31, 2006, the use of different assumptions within our approach could have a material effect on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent the creditworthiness of our reinsurers were to deteriorate due to an adverse event affecting the reinsurance industry, such as a large number of major catastrophes, actual uncollectible amounts could be significantly greater than our provision for uncollectible reinsurance. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and our liquidity. Given the various considerations used to estimate our uncollectible provision, we cannot precisely quantify the effect a specific industry event may have on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. However, based on the composition (particularly the average credit quality) of the reinsurance recoverable balance at December 31, 2006, we estimate that a ratings downgrade of one notch for all rated reinsurers (i.e., from A to A or A to BBB+) could increase our provision for uncollectible reinsurance by approximately $170 million or approximately one percent of the reinsurance recoverable balance, assuming no other changes relevant to the calculation. While a ratings downgrade would result in an increase in our provision for uncollectible reinsurance and a charge to earnings in that period, a downgrade in and of itself does not imply that we will not ultimately collect all of the ceded reinsurance recoverable from the reinsurers in question. Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 46 Table of Contents Investments Our fixed maturity investments are classified as either available for sale or held to maturity. Our available for sale portfolio is reported at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in shareholders equity as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Fair value is determined using the quoted market price of these securities provided by either independent pricing services, or when such prices are not available, by reference to broker or underwriter bid indications. We regularly review our impaired investments (i.e., those debt securities in which fair value is below amortized cost or those equity securities in which fair value is below cost) for a possible other than temporary impairment. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record the decline as an unrealized loss in our shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the book value of the investment and record a realized loss in our consolidated statement of operations. An impairment is considered other than temporary unless we have the ability and intent to hold the investment to recovery of the cost of the investment, and evidence indicating the cost of the investment is recoverable within a reasonable period outweighs evidence to the contrary. The determination as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary principally requires the following critical judgments: i) the circumstances that require management to make a specific assessment as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary, such as the time period an investment has been in a loss position and the significance of the decline; and ii) for those securities to be assessed, whether we have the ability and intent to hold the security through an expected recovery period, absent a significant change in facts that would be expected to have a material adverse effect on either the financial markets or the financial position of the issuer. With respect to securities where the decline in value is determined to be temporary and the securitys value is not written down, a subsequent decision may be made to sell that security and realize a loss. Subsequent decisions on security sales could be made based on changes in liquidity needs (i.e., arising from a large insured loss such as a catastrophe), internal risk management considerations, the financial condition of the issuer or its industry, market conditions, and new investment opportunities. Day to day management of the majority of our investment portfolio is outsourced to third party investment managers. While these investment managers may, at a given point in time, believe that the preferred course of action is to hold securities with unrealized losses until such losses are recovered, the dynamic nature of portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell the security and realize the loss based upon new circumstances such as those related to the changes described above. We believe that subsequent decisions to sell such securities are consistent with the classification of the majority of our portfolio as available for sale. The gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2006, for all securities in a loss position was $143 million with $25.4 million in an unrealized loss position for over 12 months (of which $24 million related to fixed maturities held to maturity). Our net realized losses in 2006 included write downs of $214 million of which $198 million was related to fixed maturities. This compares with write downs of $88 million and $39 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The impairments recorded in 2006 are primarily due to an increase in market interest rates from the date of security purchase and as such, are not credit related. Because our investment portfolio is the largest component of consolidated assets and a multiple of shareholders equity, adverse changes in economic conditions subsequent to the balance sheet date could result in other than temporary impairments that are material to our financial condition and operating results. Such economic changes could arise from overall changes in the financial markets and specific changes to industries, companies, or foreign governments in which we maintain relatively large investment holdings. Further, an increase in interest rates could result in an increased number of fixed maturities for which we cannot support the intent to hold to recovery. More information regarding our process for reviewing our portfolio for possible impairments can be found in the section entitled Net Realized Gains (Losses). Deferred tax assets Many of our insurance businesses operate in income tax paying jurisdictions. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities primarily result from temporary differences between the amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities separately for each tax paying component (an individual entity or group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes) in each tax jurisdiction. At December 31, 2006, our net deferred tax asset was $1.2 billion. (Refer to Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). At each balance sheet date, management assesses the need to establish a valuation allowance that reduces deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that all, or some portion, of the deferred tax 47 Table of Contents assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance is based on all available information including projections of future taxable income from each tax paying component in each tax jurisdiction, principally derived from business plans and available tax planning strategies. Projections of future taxable income incorporate several assumptions of future business and operations that are apt to differ from actual experience. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates that resulted in our forecast of future taxable income for each tax paying component proves to be incorrect, an additional valuation allowance could become necessary. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. At December 31, 2006, the valuation allowance of $35 million (including $24 million with respect to foreign tax credits) reflects managements assessment that it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized due to the inability of certain foreign subsidiaries to generate sufficient taxable income or the inability to utilize foreign tax credits. Derivatives Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (FAS 133) establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. FAS 133 requires that all derivatives be recognized as either assets or liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and be measured at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in net income. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates and equity indices on the fair value of derivatives and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. We do not designate any derivatives as accounting hedges. Our principal participation in derivative instruments is as follows: i) To sell protection to customers as either the writer of a derivative financial instrument or an insurance or reinsurance contract that meets the definition of a derivative. The reinsurance of guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIBs) in our life reinsurance operation is our primary product falling into this category. We believe that the most meaningful presentation of these derivatives is to reflect cash inflows or revenue as net premiums earned, and to record estimates of future cash outflows as incurred losses. When we determine that a future cash payment is probable, we establish reserves for the loss. Other components of fair value are reflected in other assets or other liabilities in the balance sheet and related changes in fair value reflected in net realized gains (losses) in the statement of operations. We generally hold these derivative contracts to maturity. Where we hold a derivative to maturity, the cumulative unrealized gains and losses will net to zero if we incur no losses on that contract. Refer to Note 8 c) to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of this product and related accounting treatment; and ii) To mitigate our financial risks, principally arising from our investment holdings, products sold, or assets and liabilities held in foreign currencies. For these instruments, changes in assets or liabilities measured at fair value are recorded as net realized gains (losses). Derivative instruments used for this purpose include interest rate futures, equity futures, options, interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts entered into primarily to manage duration and foreign currency exposure, enhance our portfolio yield or obtain an exposure to a particular financial market. In addition, as part of our investing activities, we purchase to be announced mortgage backed securities (TBA), which are derivatives. The fair value of derivative instruments depends on a number of factors, including changes in interest rates, changes in equity markets, changes in credit markets and, for GMIB reinsurance, changes in the allocation of the investments underlying annuitant account value. Where available, we use quoted market prices to determine the fair value of these instruments. If the quoted prices are not available, the fair value is estimated using valuation models for each type of instrument. Internal valuation models include the use of management estimates and current market information. These models may be developed by third parties or internally based on market conventions for similar transactions, depending on the circumstances. These models and related assumptions are continuously re evaluated by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon improvements in modeling techniques and availability of more timely market information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the assumptions used in the valuation models to determine the fair value of these derivative products, actual experience may differ from the estimates reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements, and the differences may be material. Fair value adjustments attributed to all our derivative transactions are classified and recorded in our net realized gains (losses). With respect to derivatives sold, we recorded a net realized gain of $7 million and $29 million and a net realized loss of $13 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, the net realized gains 48 Table of Contents included $nil, $18 million and $10 million for GMIB reinsurance, respectively. Refer to Net Realized Gains (Losses) for more information. Goodwill Goodwill, which represents the excess of the cost of our acquisitions over the fair value of net assets we acquired, was $2.7 billion at December 31, 2006. The ACE INA acquisition resulted in approximately 80 percent of this balance. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to a periodic evaluation of impairment. It is our policy to test goodwill as well as other intangible assets for impairments on an annual basis. The impairment tests in 2006, in the aggregate, show a fair value in excess of the carrying value. Goodwill is assigned to applicable reporting units of acquired entities at acquisition. The most significant reporting units are the domestic and international divisions of ACE INA, which were acquired in 1999; ACE Tempest Res catastrophe businesses, acquired in 1996 and 1998; and Tarquin Limited, acquired in 1998. There are other reporting units that resulted from smaller acquisitions that are also assessed annually. In our impairment tests, to estimate the fair value of a reporting unit, we principally use both an earnings model, that considers forecasted earnings and other financial ratios of the reporting unit as well as relevant financial data of comparable companies to the reporting unit such as the relationship of price to earnings for recent transactions and market valuations of publicly traded companies, and an analysis of the present value of estimated net cash flows. We must assess whether the current fair value of our operating units is at least equal to the fair value used in the determination of goodwill. In doing this, we make assumptions and estimates about the profitability attributable to our operating segments, as this is important in assessing whether an impairment has occurred. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates made in assessing the fair value of acquired entities change, goodwill could be materially adjusted. This would cause us to write down the carrying value of goodwill, resulting in a charge to earnings in the period recorded. Accordingly, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period the charge is taken. Risk transfer In the ordinary course of business, we both purchase (or cede), and sell (or assume), P&C reinsurance protection. In 2002, as a matter of policy, we discontinued the purchase of all finite reinsurance contracts. For both ceded and assumed reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met in order to use reinsurance accounting, principally resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract as premiums and losses. If risk transfer requirements are not met, a contract is to be accounted for as a deposit, typically resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. We also apply similar risk transfer requirements to determine whether certain commercial insurance contracts should be accounted for as insurance or a deposit. Contracts that include fixed premium (i.e., premium not subject to adjustment based on loss experience under the contract) for fixed coverage generally transfer risk and do not require judgment. Reinsurance and insurance contracts that include both significant risk sharing provisions, such as adjustments to premiums or loss coverage based on loss experience, and relatively low policy limits as evidenced by a high proportion of maximum premium assessments to loss limits, can require considerable judgment to determine whether or not risk transfer requirements are met. For such contracts, often referred to as finite or structured products, we require that risk transfer be specifically assessed for each contract by developing expected cash flow analyses at contract inception. To support risk transfer, the cash flow analyses must support the fact that a significant loss is reasonably possible, such as a scenario in which the ratio of the net present value of losses divided by the net present value of premiums equals or exceeds 110 percent. For purposes of cash flow analyses, we generally use a risk free rate of return consistent with the expected average duration of loss payments. In addition, to support insurance risk, we must prove the reinsurers risk of loss varies with that of the reinsured and or support various scenarios under which the assuming entity can recognize a significant loss. To ensure risk transfer requirements are routinely assessed, quantitative risk transfer analyses and memoranda supporting risk transfer are developed by underwriters for all structured products. We have established protocols for structured products that include criteria triggering an accounting review of the contract prior to quoting. If any criterion is triggered, a contract must be reviewed by a committee established by each of our operating segments with reporting oversight, including peer review, from our global Structured Transaction Review Committee. 49 Table of Contents With respect to ceded reinsurance, we entered into a few multi year excess of loss retrospectively rated contracts, principally in 2002, some of which remain in force. These contracts principally provide severity protection for specific product divisions. Because traditional one year reinsurance coverage had become relatively costly, these contracts were generally entered into to secure a more cost effective reinsurance program. All of these contracts transferred risk and have been accounted for as reinsurance. In addition, we maintain a few aggregate excess of loss reinsurance contracts that were principally entered into prior to 2003, such as the National Indemnity Company (NICO) contracts referred to in the section entitled, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities. Subsequent to the ACE INA acquisition, we have not purchased any retroactive ceded reinsurance contracts. With respect to assumed reinsurance and insurance contracts, products giving rise to judgments regarding risk transfer are primarily sold by our financial solutions business, included in our Insurance North American segment. While there is currently very little new activity for these products, several contracts remain in force and principally include multi year retrospectively rated contracts and loss portfolio transfers. Because transfer of insurance risk is generally a primary client motivation for purchasing these products, relatively few P&C insurance and reinsurance contracts have historically been written for which we concluded that risk transfer criteria had not been met. For certain insurance contracts that have been reported as deposits, the insured desired to self insure a risk but was required, legally or otherwise, to purchase insurance so that claimants would be protected by a licensed insurance company in the event of non payment from the insured. A significant portion of ACE Tempest Re USAs business is written through quota share treaties (approximately $562 million of net premiums earned in 2006, comprised of $404 million of first dollar quota share treaties and $158 million of excess quota share treaties), some of which are categorized as structured products (approximately $139 million of net premiums earned in 2006). Structured quota share treaties typically contain relatively low aggregate policy limits, a feature that reduces loss coverage in some manner and a profit sharing provision. Accounting standard setters for both GAAP and statutory reporting have undertaken projects to re evaluate risk transfer guidance, including accounting models that could ultimately require the bifurcation of structured quota share treaties into insurance and financing elements, and perhaps other quota share contracts not currently categorized as structured, into a reinsurance and financing component. New guidance in this area has the potential to have a significant impact on the amount of premiums and losses recognized under these contracts but we expect little impact to net income. Results of Operations Years Ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 The discussions that follow include tables, which show both our consolidated and segment operating results for the three years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. In presenting our segment operating results, we have discussed our performance with reference to underwriting results, which is a non GAAP measure. We consider this measure, which may be defined differently by other companies, to be important in understanding our overall results of operations. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other (income) expense, interest expense, income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. Underwriting results should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. 50 Table of Contents Consolidated Operating Results (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Net premiums written $ 12,030 $ 11,792 $ 11,496 Net premiums earned 11,825 11,748 11,110 Net investment income 1,601 1,264 1,013 Net realized gains (losses) (98 ) 76 197 Total revenues $ 13,328 $ 13,088 $ 12,320 Losses and loss expenses 7,070 8,571 7,690 Life and annuity benefits 123 143 175 Policy acquisition costs 1,715 1,663 1,559 Administrative expenses 1,456 1,261 1,265 Interest expense 176 174 183 Other (income) expense (35 ) (25 ) 9 Total expenses 10,505 11,787 10,881 Income before income tax 2,823 1,301 1,439 Income tax expense 522 273 286 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 4 Net income $ 2,305 $ 1,028 $ 1,153 Net premiums written, which reflect the premiums we retain after purchasing reinsurance protection, increased two percent in 2006, compared with 2005. The increase was primarily driven by production gains in many of ACE USAs and ACE Westchester Specialtys businesses, A&H growth at ACE International, and increased rates on short tail lines at ACE Global Markets. These increases were partially offset by a decline in international financial solutions business. In addition, ACE International had growth on the P&C side in continental Europe and Latin America offset by declines in the U.K. and Asia Pacific. The year ended December 31, 2005 was impacted by net catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, which reduced net premiums written and earned by $68 million. Additionally, the year ended December 31, 2005, included premiums written and earned of $148 million associated with multi year contracts written in our international financial solutions business which did not recur in 2006. In general, due to favorable industry financial results and growth in capital which have resulted in increased competition, P&C market conditions have deteriorated over the past year, particularly in non catastrophe P&C lines. However, the extent and pace of the deterioration has varied geographically and by line of business. Our global presence and broad product offering have allowed us to continue to be selective and grow lines of business which we believe will produce underwriting income while exiting unprofitable lines. Net premiums written increased three percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to strong production in ACE USAs casualty operations and increased catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, partially offset by a decline in net premiums written at ACE Global Markets. The following table provides a consolidated breakdown of net premiums earned by line of business for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 % of total 2005 % of total 2004 % of total Property and all other $ 3,618 31 % $ 3,560 30 % $ 3,721 34 % Casualty 6,506 55 % 6,698 57 % 6,030 54 % A&H 1,427 12 % 1,242 11 % 1,133 10 % Total P&C 11,551 98 % 11,500 98 % 10,884 98 % Life Insurance and Reinsurance 274 2 % 248 2 % 226 2 % Net premiums earned $ 11,825 100 % $ 11,748 100 % $ 11,110 100 % Net premiums earned reflect the portion of net premiums written that were recorded as revenues for the period as the exposure period expires. Net premiums earned were stable in 2006, compared with 2005 as increases in A&H (15 percent) were offset by significant decreases in financial solutions business, which we include under casualty in the 51 Table of Contents above table. Net premiums earned relating to financial solutions business were $143 million in 2006, compared with $445 million in 2005. Net premiums earned increased six percent in 2005, compared with 2004 primarily due to growth in production of U.S. casualty business, partially offset by the impact of the sale of Assured Guaranty. Net investment income increased 27 percent in 2006, compared with 2005, and 25 percent in 2005, compared with 2004. These increases were primarily due to investment of positive operating cash flows and net proceeds from our approximately $1.5 billion public offering in October 2005, which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. In evaluating our P&C business, we use the combined ratio, the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. We calculate these ratios by dividing the respective expense amounts by net premiums earned. We do not calculate these ratios for the life business as we do not use these measures to monitor or manage that business. The combined ratio is determined by adding the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. A combined ratio under 100 percent indicates underwriting income and a combined ratio exceeding 100 percent indicates underwriting losses. The following table shows our consolidated loss and loss expense ratio, policy acquisition ratio, administrative expense ratio and combined ratio for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. 2006 2005 2004 Loss and loss expense ratio 61.2% 74.5% 70.7% Policy acquisition cost ratio 14.6% 14.2% 14.1% Administrative expense ratio 12.3% 10.8% 11.5% Combined ratio 88.1% 99.5% 96.3% Our loss and loss expense ratio decreased in 2006, compared with 2005, during which we experienced significant catastrophe losses. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses, A&E reserve strengthening and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. 2006 2005 2004 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 61.2% 74.5% 70.7% Catastrophe losses (0.1)% (11.4)% (4.7)% A&E reserve strengthening (4.3)% Prior period development 0.1% (0.7)% (0.8)% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 61.2% 62.4% 60.9% We recorded $17 million in net catastrophe losses in 2006, compared with $1.4 billion in 2005, and $499 million in 2004. In 2005, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. In 2004, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with hurricanes which struck the Caribbean and the U.S. The results of the recent study conducted in 2006 for A&E and other run off reserves resulted in activity between A&E and other with no increase in net reserves. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we recorded net increases in A&E and other run off reserves of $465 million. Prior period development arises from changes to loss estimates recognized in the current year that relate to loss reserves first reported in previous calendar years and excludes the effect of losses from the development of earned premium from previous accident years. We experienced $12 million in net favorable prior period development in 2006, compared with $86 million of net adverse prior period development in 2005, and $82 million of net adverse prior period development (excluding A&E reserve strengthening) in 2004. The favorable prior period development in 2006 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. Amongst these movements was net adverse development of $165 million on catastrophe losses primarily arising from 2005 hurricanes. We also had reserve releases in other short tail lines. In the following segment discussions, prior period development unrelated to catastrophes are discussed in more detail. Our policy acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes, underwriting and other costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of premium. Administrative expenses include all other operating costs. Our policy acquisition costs ratio increased in 2006 primarily due to changes in business mix and the favorable impact 52 Table of Contents in 2005 of net premiums earned on multi year contracts in connection with the significant 2005 catastrophe losses which, generally, did not incur acquisition costs. Our administrative expense ratio increased in 2006, compared with 2005. We have invested in global expansion, including staff additions and infrastructure enhancements at ACE USA, ACE Westchester Specialty, ACE Life and ACE International. Administrative expenses in 2006 also include $80 million related to the settlement with certain governmental agencies from their investigations of various insurance industry practices and $16 million of related legal fees. The 2005 year included $45 million of legal fees related to the investigation. The decrease in the administrative expense ratio in 2005, compared with 2004, was primarily due to the increased net premiums earned. Additionally, for 2005, administrative expenses were reduced by the release of an accrual in Insurance North American and higher net profits from ACE USAs ESIS (claims services) operation, which we include in administrative expenses. Interest expense was stable in 2006, compared with 2005. Interest expense decreased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to the $75 million of Capital Re LLC preferred securities which were outstanding in 2004, and redeemed on July 12, 2004. Additionally, in 2004, we issued $500 million of 5.875 percent notes and repaid $400 million of ACE INA 8.2 percent notes. Our effective tax rate is dependent upon the mix of earnings from different jurisdictions with various tax rates; a change in the geographic mix of earnings would change the effective tax rate. Our effective tax rate on net income, which we calculate as income tax expense divided by income before income tax, was 18 percent in 2006, compared with 21 percent in 2005, and 20 percent in 2004. In 2005 and 2004, a substantial portion of our catastrophe losses occurred in jurisdictions where we do not incur income tax, causing our income to decline without a commensurate decrease in income tax expense. The effective tax rate for 2005 was approximately five percentage points lower due to the favorable impact of the American Jobs Creation Act, which resulted in an income tax benefit of $69 million. No such benefit existed in 2006 or 2004. In 2004, we incurred approximately $13 million in income tax expense related to U.S. federal income taxes from the transfer of our U.S. financial and mortgage guaranty operations to Assured Guaranty and attributed to the sale of our Assured Guaranty shares. Additionally, the A&E reserve strengthening in 2004 resulted in tax benefits of $163 million, which partially reduced our overall effective tax rate on net income for that year. Segment Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 We operate through the following business segments: Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, Global Reinsurance and Life Insurance and Reinsurance. These business segments were determined in accordance with FAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information (FAS 131). Prior to the fourth quarter of 2006, we presented a Financial Services segment. However, since this segment no longer represents a significant part of our operations, we no longer report it separately. We classify the financial solutions business of ACE Financial Solutions and ACE Financial Solutions International (previously included in the Financial Services segment) with the Insurance North American segment. The financial results of our financial guaranty business through April 28, 2004 (the date of the Assured Guaranty initial public offering) and our share of the earnings of Assured Guaranty, were previously included in the Financial Services segment and have been classified into our corporate results. These segment changes were based primarily on the manner in which we manage the business and accountability for results. All prior periods presented have been amended to conform to this new presentation. For more information on each of our segments, including products and distribution, refer to Segment Information, under Item 1. 53 Table of Contents Insurance North American As discussed above, we have made changes to the Insurance North American segment based on how we manage the business. ACE Financial Solutions has been classified into ACE USAs results and ACE Financial Solutions International has been reclassified into ACE Bermudas results, both of which are included in this segment. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Net premiums written $ 5,940 $ 5,803 $ 5,424 Net premiums earned 5,719 5,730 5,096 Losses and loss expenses 4,026 4,577 4,266 Policy acquisition costs 530 503 458 Administrative expenses 502 427 470 Underwriting income (loss) 661 223 (98 ) Net investment income 876 698 583 Net realized gains (losses) (83 ) 15 134 Interest expense 1 Other (income) expense (2 ) 18 6 Income tax expense 352 235 114 Net income $ 1,104 $ 683 $ 498 Loss and loss expense ratio 70.4% 79.9% 83.7% Policy acquisition cost ratio 9.2% 8.8% 9.0% Administrative expense ratio 8.8% 7.4% 9.2% Combined ratio 88.4% 96.1% 101.9% Net premiums written for the Insurance North American segment increased two percent in 2006 compared with 2005. ACE USA, this segments U.S. based retail division, experienced growth across many lines. Increased production was reported in commercial property, including energy and aerospace lines, financial solutions, small and middle market workers compensation, excess liability, and specialty casualty lines of business, including management liability, errors and omissions, medical liability, surety and environmental liability. These increases were partially offset by a decline in production in the large account risk management unit. ACE Bermuda reported a significant decline in its financial solutions business as net premiums written in 2005 were bolstered by catastrophe related reinstatement premiums on multi year contracts of $148 million. ACE Westchester Specialty, this segments wholesale focused division, reported modest growth driven primarily by primary and excess casualty, inland marine, environmental and professional risk business. The year ended December 31, 2005, was impacted by catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, which reduced net premiums written and earned by $76 million, primarily at ACE USA and ACE Westchester Specialty. Net premiums written increased seven percent in 2005 compared with 2004. This increase was primarily driven by ACE USAs risk management, medical liability and workers compensation businesses and ACE Westchester Specialtys casualty lines. These gains were partially offset by lower net premiums written for property business, due in large part to higher reinstatement premiums in connection with catastrophe losses. 54 Table of Contents The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance North Americans net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 % oftotal 2005 % oftotal 2004 % oftotal Property and all other $ 1,289 22% $ 1,249 22% $ 1,280 25% Casualty 4,228 74% 4,299 75% 3,642 72% A&H 202 4% 182 3% 174 3% Net premiums earned $ 5,719 100% $ 5,730 100% $ 5,096 100% (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 ACE USA $ 3,795 $ 3,666 $ 3,233 ACE Westchester Specialty 1,465 1,385 1,242 ACE Bermuda 459 679 621 Net premiums earned $ 5,719 $ 5,730 $ 5,096 ACE USAs net premiums earned increased four percent in 2006, compared with 2005. The increase was primarily driven by growth in specialty casualty and commercial property lines over the last year, partially offset by a decline in U.S. financial solutions net premiums earned (which we include under casualty in the line of business table above). ACE USA reported continued growth in net premiums earned in workers compensation coverage offered to small and middle market clients, property, professional and management liability, surety and medical liability businesses. ACE USAs net premiums earned increased 13 percent in 2005, compared with 2004. ACE Risk Management reported strong demand for its custom coverage solutions for large companies and construction projects while relatively new casualty units offering workers compensation and medical liability coverage also contributed to ACE USAs growth in 2005, compared with 2004. ACE Westchester Specialtys net premiums earned increased six percent in 2006, compared with 2005. This increase was primarily driven by increased primary and excess casualty, inland marine, environmental and professional risk business and also the negative impact of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums on the prior year. ACE Westchester Specialty reported a 12 percent increase in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to growth in casualty business, partially offset by higher catastrophe related reinstatement premiums. ACE Bermudas net premiums earned decreased 32 percent in 2006, compared with 2005. The decrease was a result of the decline in financial solutions business, including the impact on the prior year of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums on multi year contracts. In 2006, ACE Bermuda reported increases in net premiums earned on excess liability and excess property business offset by a decline in net premiums earned on professional lines business. ACE Bermudas net premiums earned increased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to the reinstatement premiums on multi year contracts, partially offset by a decline in professional lines production. Insurance North Americans loss and loss expense ratio decreased in 2006, compared with 2005. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses, A&E reserve strengthening and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. 2006 2005 2004 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 70.4% 79.9% 83.7% Catastrophe losses (8.9)% (2.9)% A&E reserve strengthening (9.0)% Prior period development (1.2)% (1.8)% (3.3)% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 69.2% 69.2% 68.5% Insurance North Americans catastrophe losses were $nil in 2006, compared with $557 million in 2005 and $137 million in 2004. In 2005, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. In 2004, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with hurricanes which struck the Caribbean and the U.S. The 2004 loss and loss expense ratio was negatively impacted by the A&E and other run off reserve strengthening, which resulted in a 55 Table of Contents before tax charge of $459 million, including the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, for Insurance North American. The net additions comprised A&E reserve increases of $548 million including the provision for uncollectible reinsurance of $95 million and favorable prior period development of $89 million in other run off reserves. Insurance North American incurred net adverse prior period development of $65 million in 2006, representing 0.5 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. The net prior period development in 2006 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, the most significant of which were: Net adverse development of $60 million on long tail business including: Adverse development of $57 million on a small number of run off portfolios in the U.S. with predominantly workers compensation exposures from accident years 1996 and prior. This movement was largely due to a revision of selected loss development factors in the tail. Loss reserve estimates for this business are very sensitive to changes in such assumptions; Adverse development of $42 million on the ACE Bermuda D&O book from report years 2000 2002 driven by case estimate increases on large claims following significant events in the mediation process including increased plaintiff demands, settlement conferences and court proceedings; Favorable development of $29 million on the ACE Bermuda excess liability book driven by the settlement of a single claim from the 1991 report year on better than the anticipated terms used to establish the reserve; Favorable development of $13 million on large account business written by ACE USA due to lower than anticipated loss emergence. Net adverse development of $51 million on short tail business including: Adverse development of $182 million related to property claims arising from 2005 catastrophes. The majority of this increase is related to property losses from Hurricane Katrina. The nature and extent of Hurricane Katrina resulted in some claims that increased over previously reported damage estimates. Factors leading to these increases included demand surge and some impact to previously unimpaired layers of excess coverage; Favorable development on ACE Westchester Specialtys crop/hail business of $60 million due to recording of the final settlement of the 2005 crop results. In line with normal practice for this type of business ACE did not receive formal loss reports for the 2005 year until 2006. Therefore, the prior period movements were direct results of the loss amounts within the initial loss report issued during the first quarter of 2006 and final loss report issued during the second quarter of 2006 being lower than our preliminary estimates; Favorable development of $51 million on ACE USAs workers compensation short tail catastrophe and industrial accident exposure primarily arising from accident years 2004 and 2005, following the review of reported loss experience relative to expectations. Net favorable development on specialty lines of business of $46 million due to lower than expected loss emergence from the 2004 and 2005 accident years. The major components of this movement were $18 million and $14 million on surety and aerospace business respectively. We experienced $103 million of net adverse prior period development in 2005, representing 0.9 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2004. The 2005 prior period development was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, the most significant of which were: Adverse development of $171 million on certain sub portfolios of long tail business, written principally during accident years 1998 2002 in our U.S. operations. In particular: Run off program business including aggregate excess workers compensation exposure, general liability and automobile liability ($59 million in accident years 1999 2002); Excess general liability business written on a portfolio of large corporate accounts ($38 million across accident years 1998 2001); Professional liability business, mainly related to a run off nursing care program ($21 million for accident years 1999 2002); Pool participations covering workers compensation business assumed on both a voluntary and involuntary basis ($35 million in accident years 2004 and prior). The development followed completion of reserve studies that reflected higher than anticipated actual loss experience compared with expectations from the previous reserve studies. In the case of the excess general liability and professional liability business, the development arose following the completion of a detailed claims review that identified the need for significant case reserve changes on a number of accounts; Adverse development of $99 million in the ACE Bermuda professional lines book on accident years 2002 and prior following a claims and legal review of information received on several previously notified claims; 56 Table of Contents Favorable prior period development of $22 million in the financial services lines relating to a financial guarantee reinsurance contract that provides default coverage for a diversified portfolio of securities. The portfolio was substantially reduced and actual losses, representing the shortfall between cash paid to settle securities and stated principal and interest amounts, were lower than corresponding loss reserves held for those securities; Adverse development of $84 million mostly on the 2001 and 2002 accident years relating to changes in the legal and claim positions on a small number of financial guarantee contracts; Favorable development of $107 million on lines with short tail exposures (property, inland marine, and workers compensation catastrophe) resulting from our standard quarterly reserving process. Favorable development arose from the better than expected emergence of actual claims relative to expectations used to establish reserves. A majority of the favorable development arose from accident year 2004; Favorable development of $70 million in the ACE Bermuda excess liability book on accident years 2002 and prior due to a number of successful claim settlements during the year; Favorable development of $47 million on specialty business including agriculture, aviation, satellites, and political risk due to lower than anticipated loss emergence during the year, mainly related to more recent accident years, primarily the 2004 accident year. We experienced net adverse prior period development of $166 million, excluding A&E, in 2004, representing 1.7 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2003. The 2004 net adverse prior period development of $166 million was mainly driven by development on long tail lines for accident years 2002 and prior, most notably $163 million on U.S. run off workers compensation business and $98 million on the ACE Bermuda professional lines business. Partially offsetting this adverse development was $181 million of favorable prior period development on lines with short tail exposures principally related to accident year 2003. Insurance North Americans policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2006, compared with 2005, primarily due to additional profit commissions on crop/hail business due to 2005 crop results being more profitable than in 2004. The year ended December 31, 2005, benefited from premiums earned on multi year contracts which generally do not incur acquisition costs. The policy acquisition cost ratio decreased in 2005, compared with 2004, as higher acquisition costs on ACE Westchester Specialtys crop business was offset by lower direct and contingent commissions at ACE USA and lower commission costs at ACE Bermuda. Administrative expenses increased in 2006, compared with 2005. Administrative expenses in 2005 were favorably impacted by the reduction of $42 million in various accruals determined not to be needed. Additionally, net profits for ACE USAs ESIS operation which we include in administrative expenses, were lower in 2006. Insurance Overseas General (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Net premiums written $ 4,266 $ 4,195 $ 4,335 Net premiums earned 4,321 4,239 4,296 Losses and loss expenses 2,259 2,583 2,423 Policy acquisition costs 856 836 800 Administrative expenses 609 566 544 Underwriting income 597 254 529 Net investment income 370 319 224 Net realized gains (losses) (16) 51 47 Other expense 10 16 25 Income tax expense 206 107 232 Net income $ 735 $ 501 $ 543 Loss and loss expense ratio 52.3% 60.9% 56.4% Policy acquisition cost ratio 19.8% 19.7% 18.6% Administrative expense ratio 14.1% 13.4% 12.7% Combined ratio 86.2% 94.0% 87.7% 57 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written increased two percent in 2006, compared with 2005. ACE International reported growth in A&H business driven by continued success in direct marketing campaigns in Asia Pacific and Latin America. On the P&C side, growth in continental Europe and Latin America was partially offset by a decline in net premiums written in the U.K. and the Far East due to pricing pressure and competitive conditions for new accounts. ACE Global Markets reported increased net premiums written due to rate increases in such lines as energy, property and marine. The year ended December 31, 2005, was impacted by catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, which reduced net premiums written and earned by $38 million, primarily at ACE Global Markets. Net premiums written decreased three percent in 2005, compared with 2004. This decrease was primarily due to a decline in production combined with higher catastrophe related reinstatement premiums at ACE Global Markets, partially offset by gains on conversion of the U.S. dollar against the British pound sterling and the Euro dollar (refer to the table below for impact of foreign exchange on net premiums written and earned). The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 % oftotal 2005 % oftotal 2004 % oftotal Property and all other $ 1,617 37% $ 1,609 38% $ 1,738 41% Casualty 1,479 34% 1,570 37% 1,599 37% A&H 1,225 29% 1,060 25% 959 22% Net premiums earned $ 4,321 100% $ 4,239 100% $ 4,296 100% (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 ACE Europe $ 1,819 $ 1,865 $ 1,934 ACE Asia Pacific 590 545 485 ACE Far East 361 378 382 ACE Latin America 521 416 355 ACE International 3,291 3,204 3,156 ACE Global Markets 1,030 1,035 1,140 Net premiums earned $ 4,321 $ 4,239 $ 4,296 Insurance Overseas General reported a two percent increase in net premiums earned in 2006, compared with 2005. In 2006, this segment experienced growth in A&H business, offset by weakening market conditions for P&C business and higher reinsurance costs. Additionally, the prior year was impacted by catastrophe related reinstatement premiums of $38 million. Net premiums earned decreased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to a decline in production at ACE Global Markets, higher catastrophe related reinstatement premiums and increased reinsurance costs. ACE Internationals net premiums earned increased three percent in 2006, compared with 2005. Generally, in the U.K., competition for P&C business has put pressure on rates, terms and conditions, while production of A&H business in Europe has increased. ACE Asia Pacific and ACE Latin America reported increases in net premiums earned in the current periods primarily driven by solid growth in A&H business over the past year. These regions have been successfully utilizing unique and innovative distribution channels to grow their A&H book. ACE Far East reported a decline in net premiums earned, primarily due to the weaker Japanese Yen. ACE Internationals net premiums earned increased two percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to the relative position of the U.S. dollar, as strong A&H growth was more than offset by lower P&C writings. ACE Global Markets net premiums earned were stable in 2006, compared with 2005, as the decrease in catastrophe related reinstatement premiums was offset by higher reinsurance costs in 2006, particularly on aviation, energy, property and marine lines. ACE Global Markets net premiums earned decreased nine percent in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to higher catastrophe related reinstatement premiums and a decline in production across most of ACE Global Markets portfolio of products, particularly property and professional lines. 58 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General conducts business internationally and in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the approximate effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of net premiums written and earned for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. 2006 2005 Net premiums written: Growth in original currency 2.7% (5.5)% Foreign exchange effect (1.0)% 2.3% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 1.7% (3.2)% Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency 2.3% (3.3)% Foreign exchange effect (0.4)% 2.0% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 1.9% (1.3)% Insurance Overseas Generals loss and loss expense ratio decreased in 2006, compared with 2005, primarily due to lower catastrophe losses. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses, and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. 2006 2005 2004 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 52.3% 60.9% 56.4% Catastrophe losses (0.1)% (5.2)% (1.4)% Prior period development 1.7% (0.1)% 0.5% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 53.9% 55.6% 55.5% Net catastrophe losses for 2006 were $3 million, compared with $201 million and $53 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2005, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. In 2004, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with hurricanes which struck the Caribbean and the U.S. Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $72 million in 2006, representing 1.3 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. The net prior period development for 2006 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, the most significant of which were: Net favorable development of $111 million on short tail property and fire lines. These reserve changes were made as part of our regular quarterly reserving process and arose from better than expected emergence of actual claims relative to expectations. This movement mainly related to accident years 2004 and 2005; Adverse development of $20 million on long tail lines of business including: Adverse development of $29 million on the ACE Global Markets professional lines portfolio. This movement was due to heavier than expected loss development on years of account 2003 and prior; Adverse development of $14 million on asbestos liabilities excluding a provision for uncollectible reinsurance, following completion of our review of A&E liabilities; Net favorable development of $23 million on ACE Internationals non A&E exposures from the 2002 2004 accident periods. This movement was driven by continued favorable loss emergence most notably on the U.K. casualty and Asia Pacific financial lines portfolios. Net adverse development of $19 million on specialty business including aviation, A&H, marine, consumer lines and political risk. Most of the adverse development was driven by higher than expected loss activity at ACE Global Markets, primarily on accident years 2002 and prior. We experienced $5 million of net adverse development in 2005, representing 0.1 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2004. The 2005 prior period development was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, the most significant of which were: Favorable development of $94 million on short tail property and fire lines. These reserve changes were made as part of our regular quarterly reserving process and arose from better than expected emergence of actual claims relative to expectations. This movement mainly related to accident years 2003 and 2004; Adverse development of $41 million on ACEs share of a consortium reinsuring U.S. workers compensation business during the late 1990s. The adverse development arose following the completion of a financial and actuarial review of information received from the client; 59 Table of Contents . Adverse development of $62 million on professional lines business due to case reserve increases on a number of large claims. This adverse development was mainly related to accident years 2001 through 2003. We experienced net favorable prior period development of $17 million, including $6 million of adverse development relating to A&E, in 2004, representing 0.4 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2003. The 2004 net favorable prior period development was driven by favorable development on certain short tail lines of $103 million being offset by moderate adverse movements on a number of sub portfolios including aviation, casualty, political risk and A&H business. Insurance Overseas Generals policy acquisition cost ratio has increased over the last three years primarily due to changes in business mix at ACE International (increase in A&H, which typically attracts higher commission rates than other business, particularly in Latin America). Insurance Overseas Generals administrative expense ratio increased in 2006, compared with 2005, primarily due to investments in global expansion including staff additions and infrastructure enhancements at ACE International, particularly in emerging markets. The increase in 2005 compared with 2004, was primarily due to the depreciation of the U.S. dollar, increased costs to support business opportunities and, to a lesser extent, the decline in net premiums earned. Global Reinsurance (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Net premiums written $ 1,550 $ 1,546 $ 1,518 Net premiums earned 1,511 1,531 1,389 Losses and loss expenses 784 1,402 973 Policy acquisition costs 303 300 265 Administrative expenses 62 60 65 Underwriting income (loss) 362 (231) 86 Net investment income 221 173 126 Net realized gains (losses) 10 (4) 27 Interest expense 3 Other (income) expense 8 11 5 Income tax expense 38 11 14 Net income (loss) $ 547 $ (87) $ 220 Loss and loss expense ratio 51.8% 91.6% 70.1% Policy acquisition cost ratio 20.1% 19.6% 19.1% Administrative expense ratio 4.1% 3.9% 4.6% Combined ratio 76.0% 115.1% 93.8% Global Reinsurances net premiums written were stable in 2006 compared with 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2006, this segment benefited from increased rates on property catastrophe coverages following two years of unprecedented hurricane activity, partially offset by lower casualty rates in Europe, and the cancellation of a large property account in the U.S. The year ended December 31, 2005, was impacted by catastrophe related assumed reinstatement premiums, which increased net premiums written and earned by $46 million. Net premiums written increased two percent in 2005 compared with 2004. Increased assumed reinstatement premiums related to catastrophe losses were partially offset by weak market conditions for property and property catastrophe business (primarily in the first half of 2005) and lower casualty rates in Europe. The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Global Reinsurances net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 % oftotal 2005 % oftotal 2004 % oftotal Property and all other $ 354 23% $ 354 23% $ 374 27% Casualty 799 52% 829 54% 686 49% Property catastrophe 358 25% 348 23% 329 24% Net premiums earned $ 1,511 100% $ 1,531 100% $ 1,389 100% 60 Table of Contents (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 ACE Tempest Re Europe $ 272 $ 295 $ 303 ACE Tempest Re USA 872 887 751 ACE Tempest Re Bermuda 367 349 335 Net premiums earned $ 1,511 $ 1,531 $ 1,389 Global Reinsurances net premiums earned decreased one percent in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily due to reduced assumed reinstatement premiums at ACE Tempest Bermuda and ACE Tempest Re Europe and the cancellation of a large homeowners account at ACE Tempest Re USA. Net premiums earned increased 10 percent in 2005 compared with 2004, primarily due to higher assumed reinstatement premiums and casualty earnings on business written in prior periods. The loss and loss expense ratio decreased in 2006, compared with 2005, primarily due to decreased catastrophe losses. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. 2006 2005 2004 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 51.8% 91.6% 70.1% Catastrophe losses (0.9)% (37.7)% (21.8)% Prior period development 0.4% 1.4% 4.4% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 51.3% 55.3% 52.7% Global Reinsurance recorded net catastrophe losses of $14 million in 2006 compared with $601 million and $309 million in net catastrophe losses in 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2005, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. In 2004, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with hurricanes which struck the Caribbean and the U.S. Global Reinsurance incurred net favorable prior period development of $5 million in 2006, representing 0.2 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. The net prior period development in 2006 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. The largest adverse movement was related to catastrophes from the 2005 accident year of $29 million as a result of increased loss reports from cedants. Favorable movements largely related to property business from accident years pre 2005 and a number of small movements on different specialty portfolios. We experienced $22 million of net favorable prior period development in 2005, representing 1.4 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2004. This compares with 2004 net favorable prior period development of $61 million, representing 6.6 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2003. The 2005 favorable prior period development related primarily to property and other short tail lines and resulted from a difference between the actual and expected claims emergence used to establish reserves for the 2003 and 2004 accident years. The prior period development in 2004 was primarily due to better than expected claims experience on property and other short tail lines. The remaining decreases to the loss and loss expense ratio in 2006 were primarily due to favorable current accident year experience on property business and changes in business mix. In 2006, there was a greater proportion of property and property catastrophe business and pro rata business, which generally carries a lower loss ratio than excess of loss business. Global Reinsurances policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2006, primarily due to higher ceding commissions at ACE Tempest Re USA and the impact on the prior year of catastrophe related assumed reinstatement premiums, which do not incur acquisition costs. The policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2005 compared with 2004, primarily as a result of changes in business mix, partially offset by increased catastrophe related assumed reinstatement premiums. Administrative expenses have been stable over the last three years. The administrative expense ratio increased in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily due to lower net premiums earned and decreased in 2005 compared with 2004, primarily due to increased net premiums earned. 61 Table of Contents Life Insurance and Reinsurance Life Insurance and Reinsurance includes the operations of ACE Tempest Life Re (ACE Life Re) and ACE International Life (ACE Life). We assess the performance of our life insurance and reinsurance business based on life underwriting income which includes net investment income. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Net premiums written $ 274 $ 248 $ 226 Net premiums earned 274 248 226 Life and annuity benefits 123 143 175 Policy acquisition costs 26 24 24 Administrative expenses 35 19 11 Net investment income 42 36 33 Life underwriting income 132 98 49 Net realized gains (losses) (36 ) 19 7 Income tax expense (benefit) (6 ) (2 ) (2 ) Net income $ 102 $ 119 $ 58 Life underwriting income increased 35 percent in 2006, compared with 2005. Net premiums earned increased ten percent primarily due to continued growth in variable annuity business at ACE Life Re and ACE Lifes international operations. Life and annuity benefits declined due to favorable experience on variable annuity business combined with a decrease in group long term disability business, which typically incurs higher benefit ratios than other types of business. Life underwriting income increased in 2005, compared with 2004, primarily due to a decrease in life and annuity benefits. In 2005, life and annuity benefits declined primarily due to a decrease in group long term disability business. Life Insurance and Reinsurances administrative expenses increased in 2006 primarily due to increased expenses at ACE Life to support business development opportunities. Net realized gains (losses) consist of market value movement of the investment portfolio and fair value movement of guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIBs), which occur due to changes in the level and volatility of interest rates and equity markets. Net Investment Income Net investment income for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was derived from the following sources: (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Fixed maturities $ 1,463 $ 1,170 $ 980 Short term investments 119 86 47 Equity securities 57 50 25 Other 26 22 17 Gross investment income 1,665 1,328 1,069 Investment expenses (64 ) (64 ) (56 ) Net investment income $ 1,601 $ 1,264 $ 1,013 Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors, including the amounts and timing of inward and outward cash flows, the level of interest rates and changes in overall asset allocation. Net investment income increased 27 percent in 2006, compared with 2005, and 25 percent in 2005, compared with 2004. The increase in net investment income is primarily due to several years of positive operating cash flows which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. Additionally, in late 2005, our invested asset base was increased by the proceeds from our public offering. Partially offsetting the growth trend in net investment income was the sale of Assured Guaranty in 2004, which reduced the average invested asset base. The investment portfolios average market yield on fixed maturities was 5.4 percent at December 31, 2006, compared with 5.0 percent and 4.1 percent at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The following table shows the return on average invested assets for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. 62 Table of Contents (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Average invested assets $ 34,007 $ 29,118 $ 24,129 Net investment income $ 1,601 $ 1,264 $ 1,013 Return on average invested assets 4.7% 4.3% 4.2% Net Realized Gains (Losses) Our investment strategy takes a long term view and our investment portfolio is actively managed to maximize total return within certain specific guidelines, designed to minimize risk. The majority of our investment portfolio is available for sale and reported at fair value. Our held to maturity investment portfolio is reported at amortized cost. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when other than temporary impairments are recorded on invested assets. Additionally, net income is impacted through the reporting of changes in the fair value of derivatives including futures, options, swaps, GMIB reinsurance, and credit default swaps. Changes in unrealized appreciation and depreciation on available for sale securities, which result from the revaluation of securities held, are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. On July 3, 2006, we completed the sale of ACE American Re, Brandywine Reinsurance Company (UK) Ltd (BRUK), and Brandywine Reinsurance Company S.A. N.V. to Randall & Quilter Investment Holdings Limited (R&Q). The transaction resulted in a pre tax realized loss of approximately $23 million. The following table presents our pre tax net realized gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Fixed maturities and short term investments $ (220 ) $ (45 ) $ 113 Equity securities 163 76 84 Foreign currency gains (losses) (13 ) 1 Other 5 4 (21 ) Derivatives: Equity and fixed income derivatives (40 ) 12 33 Fair value adjustment on insurance derivatives 7 29 (13 ) Subtotal derivatives (33 ) 41 20 Total net realized gains (losses) $ (98 ) $ 76 $ 197 Subject to investment guidelines approved by our Finance and Investment Committee of the Board of Directors (relating to asset classes, credit quality, and liquidity), our investment managers generally have the ability to sell securities from our available for sale investment portfolio when they determine that an alternative security with comparable risks is likely to provide a higher investment return, considering the realized gain or loss on sale of the held security and differential in future investment income. Often, sales of individual securities occur when investment managers conclude there are changes in the credit quality of a particular security or, for other reasons, market value is apt to deteriorate. Further, we may sell securities when we conclude it is prudent to reduce a concentration in a particular issuer or industry. Therefore, sales volume may increase in a volatile credit market in which credit spreads and thus the market value of fixed maturity investments are subject to significant changes in a short period of time. The interest rate environment will tend to have a limited effect on sales volume but extreme conditions could have an effect on the magnitude of realized gains or losses. For example, in a declining interest rate environment, the market value of securities increases, resulting in a greater likelihood of net realized gains and we would therefore tend to reduce the average duration of our fixed maturity investment portfolio. An increasing interest rate environment would tend to have the opposite effect. The effect of a high level of realized losses or gains for a particular period will tend to be offset by increases or decreases in investment income, respectively, in subsequent periods. From a liquidity perspective, our greatest risk is that we could be forced to sell a large volume of securities at a loss (i.e., in a high interest rate environment) to meet operating needs and are thus unable to reinvest proceeds to recoup such losses with future investment income (refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information). 63 Table of Contents In 2006, we recorded net realized losses of $33 million on derivative transactions. This compares with net realized gains of $41 million and $20 million, in 2005 and 2004, respectively. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates and equity indices on the fair value of derivatives and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. We regularly review our investment portfolio for possible impairment based on criteria including economic conditions, credit loss experience and issuer specific developments. If there is a decline in a securitys net realizable value, we must determine whether that decline is temporary or other than temporary. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record it as an unrealized loss in our shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the book value of the investment and record a net realized loss in our statement of operations. The decision to recognize a decline in the value of a security carried at fair value as other than temporary rather than temporary has no impact on our book value. Once a security is identified as having a potential other than temporary impairment, we determine whether or not cost will ultimately be recovered and whether we have the intent and ability to hold the security until an expected recovery period, absent a significant change in facts that is expected to have a material adverse financial effect on the issuer. The process of determining whether a decline in value is temporary or other than temporary requires considerable judgment and differs depending on whether or not the security is traded on a public market as well as by type of security. We review all of our fixed maturities and equity securities for potential impairment each quarter. Refer to Note 7 e) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for criteria we consider in assessing potential impairment and for a table which summarizes all of our securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2006 and 2005. Our net realized losses in 2006, included write downs of $214 million, as a result of conditions which caused us to conclude that the decline in fair value was other than temporary. This compares with write downs of $88 million and $39 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The impairments are primarily due to an increase in market interest rates from the date of security purchase and as such, are not credit related. A breakdown of write downs by security type is included in Note 7 f) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Income and Expense Items Years Ended December 31 (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 2004 Equity in net income of partially owned companies $ (60 ) $ (60 ) $ (41 ) Minority interest expense 8 16 22 Federal excise tax 10 7 6 Other 7 12 9 Goodwill impairment 13 Other (income) expense $ (35 ) $ (25 ) $ 9 Other income in 2006 and 2005 is primarily comprised of our equity in net income of Assured Guaranty (included in equity in net income of partially owned companies), and minority interest (income) expense associated with our consolidated joint ventures. Other income and expense also includes certain excise taxes incurred as a result of capital management initiatives. As these are considered capital transactions, they are excluded from underwriting results and are reported in other (income) expense. Other includes $2 million of pre closing transaction costs for the sale of the run off subsidiaries in 2006, $9 million of expense due to the write off of intangible assets in 2005 and $8 million in compensation expense in connection with the settlement of ACE stock awards held by employees of Assured Guaranty in 2004. In 2004, we recognized $13 million of goodwill impairments, following a review of our goodwill balance during the first quarter of 2004.  Investments Our principal investment objective is to ensure that funds are available to meet our insurance and reinsurance obligations. Within this broad liquidity constraint, the purpose of our investment portfolios structure is to maximize total return subject to specifically approved guidelines of overall asset classes, credit quality, liquidity and volatility of expected returns. Our investment portfolio is invested primarily in fixed income securities with an average credit 64 Table of Contents quality of AA, as rated by the independent investment rating service S&P. The portfolio is externally managed by independent, professional investment managers. The average duration of our fixed income securities, including the effect of options and swaps, increased to 3.3 years at December 31, 2006, compared with 2.9 years at December 31, 2005. We estimate that a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would reduce our book value by approximately $1.1 billion. Our other investments are principally comprised of direct investments, investment funds and limited partnerships. The following table shows the fair value and cost/amortized cost of our invested assets at December 31, 2006 and 2005. December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 (in millions of U.S. dollars) FairValue Cost/ Amortized Cost FairValue Cost/ Amortized Cost Fixed maturities available for sale $ 28,540 $ 28,389 $ 24,285 $ 24,273 Fixed maturities held to maturity 3,015 3,047 3,055 3,076 Short term investments 2,456 2,456 2,299 2,299 34,011 33,892 29,639 29,648 Equity securities 1,713 1,372 1,507 1,280 Other investments 845 661 675 592 Total investments $ 36,569 $ 35,925 $ 31,821 $ 31,520 The fair value of our total investments increased $4.7 billion in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily due to the investment of $3.6 billion of positive cash flows in the current period, including the impact of the sale of the run off companies which included, as part of the sale, cash and other investments of approximately $500 million. Unrealized appreciation of investments, particularly on fixed maturities, increased the total fair value of our investments by $353 million in 2006. The following tables show the market value of our fixed maturities and short term investments at December 31, 2006 and 2005. The first table lists investments according to type and the second according to S&P credit rating. December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 (in millions of U.S. dollars) MarketValue Percentage ofTotal MarketValue Percentage ofTotal Treasury $ 1,322 4 % $ 1,956 6% Agency 2,207 7 % 1,506 5% Corporate 7,394 22 % 7,646 26% Mortgage backed securities 11,346 33 % 8,363 28% Asset backed securities 2,020 6 % 1,981 7% Municipal 809 2 % 504 2% Non U.S. 6,457 19 % 5,384 18% Short term investments 2,456 7 % 2,299 8% Total $ 34,011 100 % $ 29,639 100% December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 (in millions of U.S. dollars) MarketValue Percentage ofTotal MarketValue Percentage ofTotal AAA $ 22,471 66 % $ 18,985 64 % AA 2,725 8 % 2,108 7 % A 3,909 12 % 4,350 15 % BBB 2,498 7 % 2,083 7 % BB 943 3 % 945 3 % B 1,365 4 % 1,106 4 % Other 100 62 Total $ 34,011 100 % $ 29,639 100 % 65 Table of Contents In accordance with our investment process, we invest in below investment grade securities through dedicated investment portfolios managed by external investment managers that have investment professionals specifically dedicated to this asset class. At December 31, 2006, our fixed income investment portfolio included below investment grade and non rated securities which, in total, comprised approximately seven percent of our fixed income portfolio. We define a security as being below investment grade if it has an S&P credit rating of BB or less. Our below investment grade and non rated portfolio includes approximately 800 issues, with the top 15 holdings making up approximately 12 percent of the $2.5 billion balance at December 31, 2006. The highest single exposure in this portfolio of securities is $25 million. Below investment grade securities have different characteristics than investment grade corporate debt securities. Risk of loss from default by the borrower is greater with below investment grade securities. Below investment grade securities are generally unsecured and are often subordinated to other creditors of the issuer. Also, issuers of below investment grade securities usually have higher levels of debt and are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as recession or increasing interest rates, than are investment grade issuers. We reduce the overall risk in the below investment grade portfolio, as in all investments, through careful credit analysis, strict investment policy guidelines and diversification by issuer and or guarantor as well as by industry. Restricted Assets We are required to maintain assets on deposit with various regulatory authorities to support our insurance and reinsurance operations. These requirements are generally promulgated in the statutory regulations of the individual jurisdictions. The assets on deposit are available to settle insurance and reinsurance liabilities. We also utilize trust funds in certain large transactions where the trust funds are set up for the benefit of the ceding companies and generally take the place of letter of credit (LOC) requirements. We also have investments in segregated portfolios primarily to provide collateral or guarantees for LOCs and debt instruments. (Refer to Notes 11 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) The following table identifies the value of restricted assets at December 31, 2006 and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2006 2005 Deposits with U.S. regulatory authorities $ 999 $ 921 Deposits with non U.S. regulatory authorities 1,968 2,065 Assets used for collateral or guarantees 1,045 910 Trust funds 2,558 2,255 $ 6,570 $ 6,151 The value of restricted assets increased seven percent in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily due to increased use of trust funds in support of U.S. business ceded by ACE Tempest Re USA to ACE Tempest Re Bermuda. Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E. These A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to future changes in the legal, social and economic environment. We have not assumed any such future changes in setting the value of our A&E reserves, which include provisions for both reported and IBNR claims. Our exposure to A&E claims principally arises out of liabilities acquired when we purchased Westchester Specialty in 1998 and the P&C business of CIGNA in 1999, with the larger exposure contained within the liabilities acquired in the CIGNA transaction. In 1996, prior to our acquisition of the P&C business of CIGNA, the Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner approved a plan to restructure INA Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Restructuring) which included the division of Insurance Company of North America (INA) into two separate corporations: (1) an active insurance company that retained the INA name and continued to write P&C business and (2) an inactive run off company, now called Century Indemnity Company (Century). As a result of the division, predominantly all A&E and certain other liabilities of INA were allocated to Century and extinguished, as a matter of Pennsylvania law, as liabilities of INA. As part of the Restructuring, the A&E liabilities of various U.S. affiliates of INA were reinsured to Century, and Century and certain other run off companies having A&E and other liabilities were contributed to 66 Table of Contents Brandywine Holdings Corporation (Brandywine Holdings). As part of the 1999 acquisition of the P&C business of CIGNA, we acquired Brandywine Holdings and its various subsidiaries. For more information refer to Brandywine Run Off Entities, below. The table below presents a roll forward of our consolidated A&E loss reserves, allocated and unallocated loss expense reserves for A&E exposures and the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, for the year ended December 31, 2006. Asbestos Environmental Total (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Balance at December 31, 2005* $ 3,760 $ 1,964 $ 658 $ 553 $ 4,418 $ 2,517 Incurred activity 238 (71) (55) (24) 183 (95) Payment activity (373) (185) (86) (67) (459) (252) Foreign currency revaluation 28 6 3 2 31 8 Subtotal 3,653 1,714 520 464 4,173 2,178 Sale of certain run off reinsurance subsidiaries (461) (236) (33) (33) (494) (269) Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 3,192 $ 1,478 $ 487 $ 431 $ 3,679 $ 1,909 *The balance at December 31, 2005 has been adjusted to increase net reserves by $13 million for accounts not originally classified as A&E in our claim records, and to include $124 million of unallocated loss expense reserves and $310 million of provision for uncollectible reinsurance. The A&E net loss reserves including allocated and unallocated loss expense reserves and provision for uncollectible reinsurance at December 31, 2006 of $2.1 billion shown in the above table are comprised of $1.6 billion in reserves held by Brandywine run off companies, $245 million of reserves held by Westchester Specialty, $175 million of reserves held by ACE Bermuda and $124 million of reserves held by Insurance Overseas General. Included in the net incurred activity above is $23 million of incurred development from Insurance Overseas General and $21 million of unallocated loss adjustment expense incurred in the active ACE USA companies. The net figures in the above table reflect third party reinsurance other than reinsurance provided by NICO under three aggregate excess of loss contracts described below (collectively, the NICO contracts). We exclude the NICO contracts as they cover non A&E liabilities as well as A&E liabilities. The split of coverage provided under the NICO contracts for A&E liabilities as compared to non A&E liabilities is entirely dependant on the speed at which the related claims will be paid. Our ability to make an estimate of this split is not practicable. We believe, instead, that the A&E discussion is best provided excluding the NICO contracts, while separately discussing the NICO contracts in relation to the total subject business, both A&E and non A&E, covered by those contracts. With certain exceptions, the NICO contracts provide coverage for our net A&E incurred losses and allocated loss expenses within the limits of coverage and above ACEs retention levels. These exceptions include losses arising from operations of ACE Overseas General and participations by ACE Bermuda as a co reinsurer or retrocessionaire in the NICO contracts. The adverse gross asbestos incurred activity was primarily due to some deterioration in asbestos exposures driven by an increase in legal defense expenses and adverse development on select accounts, brought on by isolated circumstances specific to those accounts. Despite the adverse gross asbestos incurred activity, net incurred activity declined in 2006. This was partially due to improvements in our recoverable estimation process, favorable actual paid net to gross trends since the prior review and changes in the mix of gross losses subject to reinsurance recoveries. Since our last A&E reserve study, we have improved our highly detailed and quantitative approach to modeling the cessions to our third party facultative and treaty reinsurance for each modeled account. We allocate each modeled ground up account estimate to the applicable direct Brandywine policies and then apply the terms of each applicable facultative certificate and treaty program to determine the percentage ceded and the reinsurance ceded by reinsurer. This process allows us to specifically determine credit quality and hence the appropriate provision for uncollectible reinsurance. For this study, we applied the reinsurance model to over 90 percent of accounts, compared to 80 percent for the previous study. With respect to change in exposure mix, our overall gross incurred loss and loss expense comprises favorable and adverse development in the underlying component lines of business and exposures. We experienced adverse development with respect to gross losses for lines with significant third party reinsurance (e.g. asbestos, excess liability) and favorable development of gross losses in less heavily reinsured lines. Hence, the impact of the adverse gross development was reduced by reinsurance recoveries while at the same time less of the favorable development was ceded to reinsurers and retained. 67 Table of Contents Brandywine Run off Impact of NICO Contracts on ACEs Run Off Liabilities As part of the acquisition of the CIGNAs P&C business, NICO provided $2.5 billion of reinsurance protection to Century on all Brandywine loss and loss adjustment expense reserves and on the A&E reserves of various ACE INA insurance subsidiaries reinsured by Century (in each case, including uncollectible reinsurance). The benefits of this NICO contract (the Brandywine NICO Agreement) flow to the other Brandywine companies and to the ACE INA insurance subsidiaries through reinsurance agreements between those companies and Century. The Brandywine NICO Agreement was exhausted on an incurred basis in the fourth quarter of 2002. The following table presents a roll forward of net loss reserves, allocated and unallocated loss adjustment expense reserves and provision for uncollectible reinsurance in respect of Brandywine operations only, including the impact of the Brandywine NICO Agreement. The table represents the full year of the Brandywine incurred activity as well as the results of the reserve reviews discussed below. Brandywine NICOCoverage(2) Net ofNICOCoverage (in millions of U.S. dollars) A&E Other(1) Total Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 1,951 $ 1,422 $ 3,373 $ 2,161 $ 1,212 Incurred activity (146 ) 152 6 6 Payment activity (192 ) (117 ) (309 ) (279 ) (30 ) Subtotal 1,613 1,457 3,070 1,882 1,188 Sale of certain run off reinsurance subsidiaries (269 ) (203 ) (472 ) (472 ) Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 1,344 $ 1,254 $ 2,598 $ 1,882 $ 716 (1) Other consists primarily of workers compensation, non A&E general liability losses and provision for uncollectible reinsurance on non A&E business. (2) The NICO Coverage amount at December 31, 2005 has been increased by $299 million to exclude the impact of advances received from NICO. Reserve Reviews During 2006, we conducted an internal, ground up review of our consolidated A&E liabilities as of June 30, 2006. During the same period, a team of external actuaries performed an evaluation as to the adequacy of the reserves of Century. This external review was conducted in accordance with the Brandywine Restructuring Order, which requires that an external actuarial review of Centurys reserves be completed every two years. In addition, we engaged the external actuaries to review the A&E reserves of ACE American Re. As a result of the internal review, we concluded that our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, were adequate and, therefore, no change to the carried net reserve was required, while the gross loss reserves increased by approximately $210 million. The conclusions of the external review provided estimates of ultimate gross and net Brandywine liabilities that are lower than a comparable study in 2004. As a result, the difference in net loss reserves between the internal and external studies has narrowed to approximately $150 million ($100 million after tax) from $300 million ($180 million after tax) in 2004. Our A&E reserves are not discounted and do not reflect any anticipated future changes in the legal, social or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. Westchester Specialty Impact of NICO Contracts on ACEs Run Off Liabilities As part of the acquisition of Westchester Specialty in 1998, NICO provided a 75 percent pro rata share of $1 billion of reinsurance protection on losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred on or before December 31, 1996, in excess of a retention of $721 million (the 1998 NICO Agreement). NICO has also provided an 85 percent pro rata share of $150 million of reinsurance protection on losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses incurred on or before December 31, 1992, in excess of a retention of $755 million (the 1992 NICO Agreement). At December 31, 2006, the remaining unused incurred limit under the 1998 NICO Agreement was $485 million, which is available only for losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses. The 1992 NICO Agreement is exhausted on an incurred basis. 68 Table of Contents The following table presents a roll forward of net loss reserves, allocated and unallocated loss adjustment expense reserves and provision for uncollectible reinsurance in respect of 1996 and prior Westchester Specialty operations that are the subject business of the NICO covers. Westchester Specialty NICOCoverage Net of NICOCoverage (in millions of U.S. dollars) A&E Other* Total Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 260 $ 196 $ 456 $ 375 $ 81 Incurred activity 7 1 8 5 3 Payment activity (22 ) (20 ) (42 ) (24 ) (18 ) Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 245 $ 177 $ 422 $ 356 $ 66 * Other consists primarily of non A&E general liability and products liability losses. Reserving Considerations For asbestos, we face claims relating to policies issued to manufacturers, distributors, installers and other parties in the chain of commerce for asbestos and products containing asbestos. Claims can be filed by individual claimants or group of claimants with the potential for hundreds of individual claimants at one time. Claimants will generally allege damages across an extended time period which may coincide with multiple policies for a single insured. Our definition of an asbestos claim count is a policyholder asbestos cause of action, with claims for bodily injury and property damage tracked separately. For example, an asbestos manufacturer who faces products liability claims alleging bodily injury from exposure to their product would generate one count regardless of the number of policies we may have issued or the actual numbers of underlying claimants alleging bodily injury damages. Environmental claims present exposure for remediation and defense costs associated with the contamination of property as a result of pollution. It is common, especially for larger defendants, to be named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at multiple sites. Our environmental claim count definition is based on policyholder by site numbers. For example, if a policyholder were named as a PRP at ten pollution sites, we would track this as ten claim counts. In addition, should we have multiple policyholders identified as PRPs at the same waste site, each would constitute a separate claim count. The table below summarizes count information for asbestos and environmental claims for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, for direct policies only, and excludes claims from assumed reinsurance. 2006 2005 Asbestos (by causative agent) Open at the beginning of year 1,349 1,340 Newly reported 80 118 Closed or otherwise disposed 38 109 Open at end of year 1,391 1,349 Environmental (by site) Open at the beginning of year 6,902 7,172 Newly reported 220 345 Closed or otherwise disposed 698 615 Open at end of year 6,424 6,902 In 2006, the number of newly reported asbestos claims declined 32 percent to 80, compared with 118 new claims in 2005. The total pending asbestos claims increased three percent to 1,391 at December 31, 2006, compared with 1,349 at December 31, 2005. This increase in pending claims is influenced by the number of closings during the period. Given the nature of asbestos claim files, it is not unusual for a file to remain open for a period of time after the financial activity on the file has ended and a minimal increase in pending claims should not be taken as an adverse indication of underlying trends. In 2006, the number of newly reported environmental claims continued the decline experienced in recent years. The number of new sites in 2006 declined 36 percent to 220, compared with 345 in 2005. Total pending environmental claims at December 31, 2006 declined seven percent to 6,424, compared with 6,902 at December 31, 2005. 69 Table of Contents The following table shows our gross and net survival ratios for our A&E loss reserves and allocated loss adjustment expense (ALAE) reserves at December 31, 2006. 3 Year Survival Ratios 1 Year Survival Ratios Gross Net Gross Net Asbestos 10.9 10.5 8.8 7.5 Environmental 4.0 5.9 5.6 6.4 Total 8.9 8.8 8.2 7.2 The net ratios reflect third party reinsurance other than the aggregate excess reinsurance provided under the NICO contracts. These survival ratios are calculated by dividing the asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE reserves by the average asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments for the three most recent calendar years (3 year survival ratio), and by asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments in 2006 (1 year survival ratio). The survival ratios provide only a very rough measure of reserve adequacy and are significantly impacted by a number of factors such as aggressive settlement practices, variations in gross to ceded relationships within the asbestos or environmental claims and levels of coverage provided. We therefore urge caution in using these very simplistic ratios to gauge reserve adequacy and note that the 1 year survival ratios, particularly, are likely to move considerably from year to year for the reasons just described. Our survival ratios decreased in 2006, compared with 2005. In 2005, the net 1 year survival ratio for asbestos was 33.0, compared with 7.5 in 2006, and was heavily impacted by a single large cession of paid losses, which resulted in an atypically high net survival ratio. Additionally, in 2006, we had a favorable settlement that resulted in a full buyback of policy obligations on a significant account that resulted in a large increase in payments for the year and, therefore, had an unfavorable impact on our asbestos survival ratios. Brandywine Run off Entities In addition to housing a significant portion of our A&E exposure, the Brandywine operations include run off liabilities related to various insurance and reinsurance businesses. The following companies comprise ACEs Brandywine operations: Century (a Pennsylvania insurer), Century Re (a Pennsylvania insurer) and Century International Reinsurance Company Ltd. (a Bermuda insurer (CIRC)). All of the Brandywine companies are direct or indirect subsidiaries of Brandywine Holdings. The U.S. based ACE INA companies assumed two contractual obligations in respect of the Brandywine operations in connection with the Restructuring: a dividend retention fund obligation and a surplus maintenance obligation in the form of an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement. In accordance with the Brandywine restructuring order, INA Financial Corporation established and funded a dividend retention fund (the Dividend Retention Fund) consisting of $50 million plus investment earnings. The full balance of the Dividend Retention Fund was contributed to Century as of December 31, 2002. To the extent future dividends are paid by INA Holdings Corporation to its parent, INA Financial Corporation, and to the extent INA Financial Corporation then pays such dividends to INA Corporation, a portion of those dividends must be withheld to replenish the principal of the Dividend Retention Fund to $50 million within five years. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, no such dividends were paid and, therefore, no replenishment of the Dividend Retention Fund occurred. The obligation to maintain and to replenish the Dividend Retention Fund as necessary and to the extent dividends are paid is ongoing until ACE INA receives prior written approval from the Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner to terminate the fund. In addition, the ACE INA insurance subsidiaries provided insurance coverage to Century in the amount of $800 million under an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement (the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement) if the statutory capital and surplus of Century falls below $25 million or if Century lacks liquid assets with which to pay claims as they become due, after giving effect to the contribution of the balance, if any, of the Dividend Retention Fund. Coverage under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement was triggered as of December 31, 2002 following contribution of the balance of the Dividend Retention Fund, because Centurys capital and surplus fell below $25 million at December 31, 2002. Effective December 31, 2004, ACE INA Holdings contributed $100 million to Century in exchange for a surplus note. After giving effect to the contribution and issuance of the surplus note, the statutory surplus of Century at December 31, 2006 was $25 million and approximately $349 million in statutory basis losses were ceded to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement. Century reports the amount ceded under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement in accordance with statutory accounting principles, which differ from GAAP by, among other things, allowing Century 70 Table of Contents to discount its asbestos and environmental reserves. For GAAP reporting purposes, intercompany reinsurance recoverables related to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement are eliminated upon consolidation. To estimate ACEs remaining claim exposure under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement under GAAP, we adjust the statutory cession to exclude the discount embedded in statutory loss reserves. At December 31, 2006, approximately $654 million in GAAP basis losses were ceded under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement, leaving a remaining limit of coverage under that agreement of approximately $146 million. At December 31, 2005, the remaining limit of coverage under the agreement was $7 million. The increase in the remaining limit in 2006 was primarily related to the sale of the run off reinsurance subsidiaries. While we believe ACE has no legal obligation to fund losses above the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement limit of coverage, ACEs consolidated results would nevertheless continue to report any losses above the limit of coverage for so long as the Brandywine companies remain consolidated subsidiaries of ACE. Uncertainties Relating to ACEs Ultimate Brandywine Exposure In addition to the Dividend Retention Fund and Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement commitments described above, certain ACE entities are primarily liable for asbestos, environmental and other exposures that they have reinsured to Century. Accordingly, if Century were to become insolvent and ACE were to lose control of Century, some or all of the recoverables due to these ACE companies from Century could become uncollectible, yet those ACE entities would continue to be responsible to pay claims to their insureds or reinsureds. Under such circumstances, ACE would recognize a loss in its consolidated statement of operations. As of December 31, 2006, the aggregate reinsurance balances ceded by the active ACE companies to Century were approximately $1.5 billion. At December 31, 2006, Centurys carried gross reserves (including reserves ceded by the active ACE companies to Century) were $4.0 billion. We believe the intercompany reinsurance recoverables, which relate to liabilities payable over many years (i.e., 25 years or more), are not impaired at this time. A substantial portion of the liabilities ceded to Century by its affiliates have in turn been ceded by Century to NICO and, as of December 31, 2006, approximately $1.9 billion of cover remains on a paid basis. Should Centurys loss reserves experience adverse development in the future and should Century be placed into rehabilitation or liquidation, the reinsurance recoverables due to Centurys affiliates would be payable only after the payment in full of certain expenses and liabilities, including administrative expenses and direct policy liabilities. Thus, the intercompany reinsurance recoverables would be at risk to the extent of the shortage of assets remaining to pay these recoverables. As of December 31, 2006, reserves ceded by Century to the active ACE companies and other amounts owed to Century by the active ACE companies were approximately $550 million in the aggregate. In a lawsuit filed in California state court in December 1999 (AICCO, Inc v. Insurance Company of North America, et al.), certain competitors of ACE USA challenged the validity of the Restructuring under Californias Unfair Competition Law, Business and Professions Code Section 17200 (UCL). The lawsuit claims that the Restructuring is not applicable to California policyholders under the UCL because it constituted a transfer of liabilities without the consent of the policyholders. The suit also claims that the notice of the Restructuring was misleading. In November 2004, the voters of California approved Proposition 64 amending the UCL by, among other things, requiring that lawsuits brought under the UCL be brought by plaintiffs who have suffered actual injury as a result of the challenged business practice. In response to a motion to dismiss brought by ACE USA, the court ruled in February 2005 that the competitors/plaintiffs who brought this suit have not alleged actual injury as required by Proposition 64 and dismissed the suit. Plaintiffs filed a timely notice of appeal on May 5, 2005. Oral argument over plaintiffs appeal was held on April 19, 2006. On May 10, 2006, the Court of Appeals affirmed the dismissal of AICCOs lawsuit. AICCO filed a petition to appeal to the California Supreme Court, however, the California Supreme Court accepted review of another unrelated case that will ultimately decide the issue of whether Proposition 64 should be applied retroactively and which will be binding on this case. On July 24, 2006, the California Supreme Court announced its decision in Californians for Disability Rights v Mervyns et al., ruling that Proposition 64 applies to pending cases. The Supreme Court has entered an order denying leave to appeal and this case is concluded. Sale of Certain Brandywine Companies Refer to Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Catastrophe Exposure Management We have exposure to catastrophic event risks from global insurance and reinsurance writings of property and workers compensation and, to a lesser extent, marine, aviation and energy. This potential loss accumulation, caused by either man made (for example, terrorism, aviation) or natural perils (for example, hurricane, earthquake) is addressed using 71 Table of Contents several different approaches. First, we have established a series of Product Boards to ensure that geographic, product and client exposures are appropriate and meet both account level and portfolio limit guidelines adopted by the Product Boards. Second, we have a standardized modeling approach across our organization that utilizes a third party catastrophe simulation software package as the basis for preparing probabilistic estimates of our potential catastrophic loss. Each unit with catastrophe exposure is required to model, price and manage its catastrophe risk using the output analytics from the software and this output also allows the aggregation of risk within and across business units. We continually examine the reasonableness of the modeling assumptions and their applicability to reflect the catastrophic loss potential of our various businesses. In addition, we maintain minimum data quality standards that must be met in order to quote and bind business. The aggregation of risk across units, products, perils and geography is performed across our organization on a quarterly basis to provide an overall assessment of risk and the results reviewed by senior management each quarter. Management maintains a prudent level of risk through a series of related accumulation thresholds that cap the net retention from single or multiple events, the probability of exhaustion of core catastrophe reinsurance programs, and the net catastrophe loss relative to tangible capital (shareholders equity less goodwill). Third, where the risk / return economics are compelling, reinsurance is purchased from reinsurers of appropriate quality and security to protect the business unit level from accumulations arising either within product, peril or business unit or across a combination thereof such that the aggregate risk from a catastrophe loss is appropriate to the units capital structure. Despite the above controls, there remains uncertainty about the characteristics, timing and extent of insured loss given the nature of catastrophes.  Natural Catastrophe Reinsurance Program ACEs core catastrophe reinsurance program provides protection against natural catastrophes impacting its primary operations (i.e. excluding assumed reinsurance) and consists of two separate towers. First, for losses arising out of North America, our core traditional program renewed on January 1, 2007, and we purchased $125 million part of $350 million excess of $200 million in coverage and we purchased $161 million part of $250 million excess of $300 million in coverage. The combined effect of our traditional program purchase is that we have 100 percent of $250 million excess of $300 million in coverage placed and we have approximately 36 percent of the $100 million excess $200 million layer placed. Each of these layers has a single reinstatement. In addition, we have purchased multi year, peril specific coverage from a major reinsurer that is backed by their credit worthiness and the issuance of fully collateralized catastrophe bonds. Under this multi year coverage, we have $200 million of U.S. hurricane coverage in excess of $570 million retention. In addition, we have purchased U.S. earthquake coverage for California, Pacific Northwest, and Central U.S. This cover is 25 percent of $200 million of loss incurred in excess of a $570 million retention. Finally, we also purchased a combined US earthquake (as defined above) and U.S. hurricane top layer cover of 67 percent of $150 million of loss incurred in excess of a $770 million retention. These multiyear programs do not have a reinstatement feature. The Company also entered into a swap agreement whereby the Company received $100 million of U.S. earthquake (California, and Pacific Northwest) protection in exchange for providing its counterparty with protection for northeast U.S. hurricane exposure. Payments for each side of the swap would be triggered if, following a catastrophic event from a covered region and peril, the counter party and industry insured losses reach levels as specified in the swap contract. By way of comparison, the 2007 program has approximately $135 million more in coverage for U.S. hurricane and $185 million more in coverage for California earthquake than the expiring program. The actual retention for 2007 will depend upon the nature of the loss and the interplay between the underlying per risk programs and certain other coverages purchased by individual business units. Second, for losses arising outside of North America and effective July 1, 2006, we have protection of 100 percent of $250 million from a single catastrophic event in excess of the retention of $50 million with two reinstatements. There is further protection above this core program, (i.e., $200 million excess of $300 million for Asia Pacific and $100 million excess of $300 million for Europe). In addition, there are various underlying per risk and catastrophe treaties underlying the core programs retention of $50 million. The program has essentially the same terms as expiring but with the addition of the Europe specific layer. 72 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate cash flows sufficient to meet short term and long term cash requirements of its business operations. As a holding company, ACE possesses assets that consist primarily of the stock of its subsidiaries, and of other investments. In addition to net investment income, our cash flows currently depend primarily on dividends or other statutorily permissible payments. Historically, these dividends and other payments have come from ACEs Bermuda based operating subsidiaries, which we refer to as our Bermuda subsidiaries. As an insurance company, one of our principal responsibilities to our clients is to ensure that we have ready access to funds to settle large unforeseen claims. Given anticipated growth in premiums and a lengthening of the average duration of our claim liabilities due to a higher proportionate growth in long tail relative to short tail business, we expect that positive cash flow from operations (underwriting activities and investment income) will be sufficient to cover cash outflows under most loss scenarios through 2007. To further ensure the sufficiency of funds to settle unforeseen claims, we hold a certain amount of invested assets in cash and short term investments and maintain available credit facilities (refer to the section entitled Credit Facilities below). In addition, for certain insurance, reinsurance, or deposit contracts that tend to have relatively large and reasonably predictable cash outflows, such as loss portfolio contracts, we attempt to establish dedicated portfolios of assets that are duration matched with the related liabilities. With respect to the duration of our overall investment portfolio, we manage asset durations to both maximize return given current market conditions and provide sufficient liquidity to cover future loss payments. In a low interest rate environment, the overall duration of our fixed maturity investments tends to be shorter and in a high interest rate environment, such durations tend to be longer. Given the current low rate environment, at December 31, 2006, the average duration of our fixed maturity investments (3.3 years) is less than the average expected duration of our insurance liabilities (4 years). Despite our safeguards, if paid losses accelerated beyond our ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows, we might need to either liquidate a portion of our investment portfolio or arrange for financing. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could include several significant catastrophes occurring in a relatively short period of time or large scale uncollectible reinsurance recoverables on paid losses (as a result of coverage disputes, reinsurers credit problems or decreases in the value of collateral supporting reinsurance recoverables). Additional strain on liquidity could occur if the investments sold to fund loss payments were sold at depressed prices. Because each subsidiary focuses on a more limited number of specific product lines than is collectively available from the ACE Group of Companies, the mix of business tends to be less diverse at the subsidiary level. As a result, the probability of a liquidity strain, as described above, may be greater for individual subsidiaries than when liquidity is assessed on a consolidated basis. If such a liquidity strain were to occur in a subsidiary, we could liquidate a portion of the portfolio as well as be required to contribute capital to the particular subsidiary and or curtail dividends from the subsidiary to support holding company operations. The payments of dividends or other statutorily permissible distributions from our operating companies are subject to the laws and regulations applicable to each jurisdiction, as well as the need to maintain capital levels adequate to support the insurance and reinsurance operations, including financial strength ratings issued by independent rating agencies, which are discussed below. During 2006, we were able to meet all of our obligations, including the payment of dividends declared on our Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares, with our net cash flow and dividends received. Should the need arise, we generally have access to the capital markets and other available credit facilities. We assess which subsidiaries to draw dividends from based on a number of factors. Considerations such as regulatory and legal restrictions as well as the subsidiarys financial condition are paramount to the dividend decision. The legal restrictions on the payment of dividends from retained earnings by our Bermuda subsidiaries are currently satisfied by the share capital and additional paid in capital of each of the Bermuda subsidiaries. In 2006, ACE Bermuda declared and paid dividends of $491 million and ACE Tempest Life Reinsurance declared and paid dividends of $125 million. During 2005, ACE Bermuda and ACE Tempest Life Reinsurance declared and paid dividends of $548 million and $32 million, respectively. We expect that a majority of our cash inflows in 2007 will be from our Bermuda subsidiaries. The payment of any dividends from ACE Global Markets or its subsidiaries is subject to applicable U.K. insurance laws and regulations. In addition, the release of funds by Syndicate 2488 to subsidiaries of ACE Global Markets is subject to regulations promulgated by the Society of Lloyds. ACE INAs U.S. insurance subsidiaries may pay dividends, without prior regulatory approval, subject to restrictions set out in state law of the subsidiarys domicile (or, if applicable, commercial domicile). Typically, restrictions state that dividends may only be paid from earned surplus 73 Table of Contents (unassigned funds) and are subject to (i) certain limitations based upon the policyholder surplus and or net income or investment income of the insurer (specific threshold set by state law of insurers domicile); (ii) total dividends paid during a twelve month period, and (iii) the maintenance of minimum capital requirements. ACE INAs international subsidiaries are also subject to insurance laws and regulations particular to the countries in which the subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations sometimes include restrictions that limit the amount of dividends payable without prior approval of regulatory insurance authorities. ACE did not receive any dividends from ACE Global Markets or ACE INA in 2006 and 2005. The debt issued by ACE INA to provide partial financing for the ACE INA acquisition and for other operating needs is serviced by statutorily permissible distributions by ACE INAs insurance subsidiaries to ACE INA as well as other group resources. Our consolidated sources of funds consist primarily of net premiums written, net investment income and proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. Funds are used primarily to pay claims, operating expenses, dividends, debt service and for the purchase of investments. After satisfying our cash requirements, excess cash flows from these underwriting and investing activities are invested. Our insurance and reinsurance operations provide liquidity in that premiums are received in advance, sometimes substantially in advance, of the time claims are paid. Generally, cash flows are affected by claim payments that, due to the nature of our operations, may be comprised of large loss payments on a limited number of claims and which can fluctuate significantly from period to period. The irregular timing of these loss payments can create significant variations in cash flows from operations between periods. Refer to Contractual obligations and commitments for our estimate for future claim payments by period. Sources of liquidity include cash from operations, routine sales of investments and financing arrangements. The following is a discussion of our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Our consolidated net cash flows from operating activities were $4.1 billion in 2006, compared with $4.3 billion in 2005. These amounts reflect net income for each period, adjusted for non cash items and changes in working capital. Net income increased to $2.3 billion in 2006, compared with $1 billion in 2005. For 2006, significant adjustments included increases in unpaid losses and loss expenses and unearned premiums of $1 billion and a decrease in reinsurance recoverable of $766 million due to growth in casualty and A&H lines. Net cash flows from operating activities were negatively impacted by increased catastrophe loss payments in 2006 and 2005. Our consolidated net cash flows used for investing activities were $3.8 billion in 2006, compared with $5.6 billion in 2005. For the indicated periods, net cash flows used for investing activities were related principally to net purchases of fixed maturities. The 2006 year included the impact of the sale of the run off companies which reduced cash and investments by approximately $500 million. In 2005, net cash flows used for investing activities benefited from the net proceeds of the public offering of approximately $1.5 billion. Our consolidated net cash flows used for financing activities were $284 million in 2006, compared with consolidated net cash flows from financing activities of $1.3 billion in 2005. Net cash flows used for financing activities in 2006 were primarily comprised of dividends paid on Ordinary Shares, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of options for Ordinary Shares. In 2005, cash flows from financing activities were primarily comprised of the net proceeds of the public offering, partially offset by dividends paid on Ordinary Shares. Both internal and external forces influence our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Claim settlements, premium levels and investment returns may be impacted by changing rates of inflation and other economic conditions. In many cases, significant periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, may lapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us and the settlement of the liability for that loss. We believe that our cash balances, cash flow from operations, routine sales of investments and the liquidity provided by our credit facilities, as discussed below, are adequate to meet expected cash requirements. In order to enhance cash management efficiency, during 2006, we entered into agreements with a bank provider to implement an international multi currency notional cash pooling program and a U.S. multi currency notional cash pooling program. In each program, participating ACE entities (based on regulatory approval) establish deposit accounts in different currencies with the bank provider and, each day, the credit or debit balances in every account are notionally translated into a single currency (U.S. dollars) and then notionally pooled. The bank extends overdraft credit to any participating ACE entity as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in each pool at the end of each day is at least zero. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not co mingled between legal entities. This arrangement is particularly effective during periods of short term timing mismatches between expected inflows and outflows of cash by currency. ACE entities may incur overdraft balances as a means to address such mismatches, and any overdraft balances incurred under this program by an ACE entity would be guaran 74 Table of Contents teed by ACE Limited (up to $150 million in the aggregate). ACE Limited has negotiated a dedicated credit facility to support both programs. ACE Limited and its subsidiaries are assigned debt and financial strength (insurance) ratings from internationally recognized rating agencies, including S&P, A.M. Best, Moodys Investors Service and Fitch. The ratings issued on our companies by these agencies are announced publicly and are available directly from the agencies. Our Internet site, www.acelimited.com, also contains some information about our ratings, which can be found under the Investor Information tab. Financial strength ratings represent the opinions of the rating agencies on the financial strength of a company and its capacity to meet the obligations of insurance policies. Independent ratings are one of the important factors that establish our competitive position in the insurance markets. The rating agencies consider many factors in determining the financial strength rating of an insurance company, including the relative level of statutory surplus necessary to support the business operations of the company. These ratings are based upon factors relevant to policyholders, agents and intermediaries and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities. Debt ratings apply to short term and long term debt as well as preferred stock. These ratings are assessments of the likelihood that we will make timely payments of principal, interest and preferred stock dividends. It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies may reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs, and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. In addition, our insurance and reinsurance operations could be adversely impacted by a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, including a possible reduction in demand for our products in certain markets. Capital Resources Capital resources consist of funds deployed, or available to be deployed, to support our business operations. The following table summarizes the components of our capital resources at December 31, 2006 and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) December 312006 December 312005 Short term debt $ 578 $ 300 Long term debt 1,560 1,811 Total debt 2,138 2,111 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Preferred Shares 557 557 Ordinary shareholders equity 13,721 11,255 Total shareholders equity 14,278 11,812 Total capitalization $ 16,725 $ 14,232 Ratio of debt to total capitalization 12.8% 14.8% Ratio of debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization 14.6% 17.0% We believe our financial strength provides us with the flexibility and capacity to obtain funds externally through debt or equity financing on both a short term and long term basis. Our ability to access the capital markets is dependent on, among other things, market conditions and our perceived financial strength. We have accessed both the debt and equity markets from time to time. Short term Debt We have commercial paper programs that use revolving credit facilities as back up facilities and provide for up to $600 million in commercial paper issuance for each of ACE Limited and ACE INA Holdings, Inc. (subject to the availability of back up facilities, which currently total $600 million). At December 31, 2006, there was no commercial paper outstanding. Short term debt consisted of $500 million of 6.0 percent senior notes due April 2007 and a $78 million 6.15 percent term loan due December 2007. 75 Table of Contents Long term Debt During the first quarter of 2007 we issued, at a slight discount, $500 million of 5.7 percent senior notes due 2017. We plan to use the net proceeds from this issuance together with available cash to repay $500 million of indebtedness maturing in April 2007. Long term debt includes $300 million, 6.7 percent senior notes due 2036, issued at a slight discount in 2006. The net proceeds together with available cash were used to repay the $300 million, 8.3 percent notes which matured in August 2006. Our total long term debt of $1.6 billion is described in detail in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following instruments have specific collateral triggers. In 1998, ACE US Holdings issued $250 million of unsecured senior notes that mature in October 2008. In December 1999, ACE INA issued $300 million of unsecured subordinated notes that mature in December 2009; we repaid $100 million of this outstanding amount during 2002. We have a $450 million credit default swap in place that has the economic effect of reducing our cost of borrowing associated with these two issuances. The minimum collateral in connection with the credit default swap is $158 million. The actual collateral can be higher depending on the credit quality of securities pledged. Under these transactions, we would be required to provide collateral of $450 million if S&P downgraded our debt rating to BB+ or lower or downgraded ACE Bermudas financial strength rating to BBB or lower. Although there can be no assurance, we believe it is unlikely that either of these two events will occur. In the event that we terminate either of the swaps prematurely, we would be liable for certain transaction costs. The counter party in each swap is a highly rated major financial institution and management does not anticipate non performance.  Trust Preferred Securities During 1999 and 2000, we issued $800 million of trust preferred securities. The funds generated from these issues were used to partially finance the ACE INA acquisition. In 2002, $400 million of the trust preferred securities matured and were repaid. In 2005 and 2004, we repaid an additional $175 million ($100 million ACE INA trust preferred securities in 2005 and $75 million Capital Re trust preferred securities in 2004). The securities outstanding consist of $300 million of trust preferred securities due in 2030, issued by a special purpose entity (a trust) that is wholly owned by us. The sole assets of the special purpose entities are debt instruments issued by one or more of our subsidiaries. The special purpose entity looks to payments on the debt instruments to make payments on the preferred securities. We have guaranteed the payments on these debt instruments. The trustees of the trust include one or more of our officers and at least one independent trustee, such as a trust company. Our officers serving as trustees of the trust do not receive any compensation or other remuneration for their services in such capacity. The full $309 million of outstanding trust preferred securities (calculated as $300 million as discussed above plus our equity share of the trust) is shown on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability. Additional information with respect to the trust preferred securities is contained in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Ordinary Shares Total shareholders equity increased $2.5 billion in 2006, primarily due to net income of $2.3 billion and unrealized appreciation on our investment portfolio, partially offset by dividends declared. Our ratios of debt to total capitalization and debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization have decreased due to the increase in shareholders equity and stable debt and trust preferred securities. In October 2005, we completed a public offering of 32.91 million Ordinary Shares for total gross proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion. As part of our capital management program, in November 2001, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of any ACE issued debt or capital securities including Ordinary Shares, up to $250 million. At December 31, 2006, this authorization had not been utilized. We generally maintain shelf capacity at all times in order to allow capital market access for refinancing as well as for unforeseen capital needs. Consistent with this policy, in 2005, we filed an unlimited shelf registration which expires in December 2008. On January 12, 2006, and April 13, 2006, we paid dividends of 23 cents per ordinary share to shareholders of record on December 30, 2005 and March 31, 2006, respectively. On July 14, 2006, October 13, 2006, and January 12, 2007, we paid dividends of 25 cents per share to shareholders of record on June 30, 2006, September 30, 2006, and December 29, 2006, respectively. We have paid dividends each quarter since we became a public company in 1993. However, the declaration, payment and value of future dividends on ordinary shares is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our profits, financial requirements and other factors including legal restrictions 76 Table of Contents on the payment of dividends and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. Dividends on the preferred shares are payable quarterly when, and if, declared by our Board of Directors, in arrears on March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1 of each year. In 2006, we paid dividends of $4.875 per preferred share on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1, to shareholders of record on February 28, May 31, August 31 and November 30, respectively.  Contractual Obligations and Commitments The table below shows our contractual obligations and commitments including our payments due by period at December 31, 2006: Payments Due By Period (in millions of U.S. dollars) Total Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After5 Years Payment amounts determinable from the respective contracts Deposit liabilities $ 335 $ 60 $ 116 $ 84 $ 75 Purchase obligations 351 71 193 87 Limited partnerships funding commitments 303 303 Operating leases 357 59 101 79 118 Short term debt 578 578 Long term debt 1,560 649 911 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Interest on debt obligations 1,812 137 234 186 1,255 Total obligations in which payment amounts are determinable from the respective contracts 5,605 905 1,596 436 2,668 Payment amounts not determinable from the respective contracts Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts 35,517 8,181 9,245 5,176 12,915 Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits 1,671 105 205 206 1,155 Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 42,793 $ 9,191 $ 11,046 $ 5,818 $ 16,738 The above table excludes pension obligations and our Preferred Shares. Minimum funding requirements for our pension obligations are immaterial over the next year. Subsequent funding commitments are apt to vary due to many factors and are difficult to estimate at this time. Our Preferred Shares, issued in 2003, have no fixed repayment terms. We may redeem the Preferred Shares at any time after May 30, 2008, at a redemption value of $25 per depository share (each of which represent one tenth of one Preferred Share) or at any time under certain limited circumstances. Refer to Notes 13 and 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our Preferred Shares and pension plans, respectively. We have no other significant contractual obligations or commitments not reflected in the table above. Deposit Liabilities Deposit liabilities include reinsurance deposit liabilities of $225 million and $212 million and contract holder deposit funds of $110 million and $138 million for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The reinsurance deposit liabilities arise from contracts we sold for which there is not a significant transfer of risk. At contract inception, the deposit liability is equal to net cash we received. An accretion rate is established based on actuarial estimates whereby the deposit liability is increased to the estimated amount payable over the term of the contract. The deposit accretion rate is the rate of return required to fund expected future payment obligations. We periodically reassess the estimated ultimate liability and related expected rate of return. Any resulting changes to the amount of the deposit liability are reflected as an adjustment to earnings to reflect the cumulative effect of the period the contract has been in force, and by an adjustment to the future accretion rate of the liability over the remaining estimated contract term. Additional information with respect to deposit liabilities is contained in Note 2 j) to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 77 Table of Contents Purchase Obligations We are party to enforceable and legally binding agreements to purchase certain services. Purchase obligations in the table primarily comprise audit fees and agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. Limited Partnerships Funding Commitments In connection with our investments in limited partnerships, we have commitments that may require funding of up to $303 million over the next several years. The timing of the payment of these commitments is uncertain and will differ from our estimated timing in the table. Operating Lease Commitments We lease office space in most countries in which we operate under operating leases that expire at various dates through December 2033. We renew and enter into new leases in the ordinary course of business as required. Estimated Gross Loss Payments under Insurance and Reinsurance Contracts We are obligated to pay claims under insurance and reinsurance contracts for specified loss events covered under those contracts. Such loss payments represent our most significant future payment obligation as a P&C insurance and reinsurance company. In contrast to other contractual obligations, cash payments are not determinable from the terms specified within the contract. For example, we do not ultimately make a payment to our counterparty for many insurance and reinsurance contracts (i.e., when a loss event has not occurred) and if a payment is to be made, the amount and timing cannot be determined from the contract. In the table above, we estimate payments by period relating to our gross liability for unpaid losses and loss expenses included in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006 and do not take reinsurance recoverables into account. These estimated loss payments are inherently uncertain and the amount and timing of actual loss payments are likely to differ from these estimates and the differences could be material. Given the numerous factors and assumptions involved in both estimates of loss and loss expense reserves and related estimates as to the timing of future loss and loss expense payments in the table above, differences between actual and estimated loss payments will not necessarily indicate a commensurate change in ultimate loss estimates. Estimated Payments for Future Life and Annuity Policy Benefits We establish reserves for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts including, but not limited to, guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDBs) and GMIBs. The amounts in the table are gross of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts. The liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet is discounted and, with respect to GMIB reinsurance, reflected net of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts, and with respect to GMDB reinsurance, does not consider benefit payments related to future fees or premiums not recognized through the balance sheet date. Accordingly, the estimated amounts in the table exceed the liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet. Payment amounts related to these reserves must be estimated and are not determinable from the contract. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing and amount of these payments, actual results could materially differ from the estimates in the table. Credit Facilities As our Bermuda subsidiaries are not admitted insurers and reinsurers in the U.S., the terms of certain U.S. insurance and reinsurance contracts require them to provide LOCs to clients. In addition, ACE Global Markets is required to satisfy certain U.S. regulatory trust fund requirements which can be met by the issuance of LOCs. LOCs may also be used for general corporate purposes and for Funds at Lloyds. 78 Table of Contents The following table shows our credit facilities by credit line, usage, expiry date and purpose at December 31, 2006. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Credit Line1 Usage Expiry Date Unsecured Liquidity Facilities ACE Limited2 $ 600 $ 264 Dec. 2010 ACE Limited3 50 March 2007 Secured Operational LOC Facilities ACE Limited 500 299 July 2010 Other4 72 72 Various Unsecured Operational LOC Facilities ACE Limited 1,000 781 July 2010 Unsecured Capital Facilities ACE Limited5 744 699 Dec. 2012 Total $ 2,966 $ 2,115 (1) Certain facilities are guaranteed by operating subsidiaries and or ACE Limited. (2) Commercial paper back up facility may also be used for LOCs. (3) Cash pooling back up facility. (4) These facilities are issued in the name of ACE European Group Limited, Lloyds Syndicate 2488 and Century Indemnity Reinsurance Company. (5) Supports ACE Global Markets underwriting capacity for Lloyds Syndicate 2488. With the exception of the LOC facilities noted under Other, the facilities noted above require that we maintain certain covenants, all of which have been met at December 31, 2006. These covenants include: (i) maintenance of a minimum consolidated net worth in an amount not less than the Minimum Amount. For the purpose of this calculation, the Minimum Amount is an amount equal to the sum of the base amount (currently $8 billion) plus 25 percent of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter, ending after the date on which the current base amount became effective, plus 50 percent of any increase in consolidated net worth during the same period, attributable to the issuance of Ordinary and Preferred Shares. The Minimum Amount is subject to an annual reset provision; and (ii) maintenance of a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of not greater than 0.35 to 1. Under this covenant, debt does not include trust preferred securities or mezzanine equity, except where the ratio of the sum of trust preferred securities and mezzanine equity to total capitalization is greater than 15 percent. In this circumstance, the amount greater than 15 percent would be included in the debt to total capitalization ratio. At December 31, 2006, (a) the minimum consolidated net worth requirement under the covenant described in (i) above was $8.6 billion and our actual consolidated net worth as calculated under that covenant was $13.7 billion and (b) our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 0.13 to 1. In addition to these covenants, the ACE Global Markets capital facility requires that collateral be posted if the financial strength rating of ACE falls to S&P BBB+ or lower. Our failure to comply with the covenants under any credit facility would, subject to grace periods in the case of certain covenants, result in an event of default. This could require us to repay any outstanding borrowings or to cash collateralize LOCs under such facility. A failure by ACE Limited (or any of its subsidiaries) to pay an obligation due for an amount exceeding $50 million would result in an event of default under all of the facilities described above. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 p) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 79 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Market Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. We are exposed to potential losses from various market risks including changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Further, through the writings of certain products such as credit derivatives (through our approximately 28 percent ownership of Assured Guaranty) and GMIB and GMDB products, we are exposed to deterioration in the credit markets, decreases in interest rates and declines in the equity markets. Our investment portfolio consists of both fixed income and equity securities, denominated in both U.S. dollars and foreign currencies, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our fixed income and all of our equity securities are classified as available for sale and, as such, changes in interest rates, equity prices or foreign currency exchange rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Nevertheless, changes in interest rates and equity prices affect consolidated net income when, and if, a security is sold or impaired. From time to time, we also use investment derivative instruments such as futures, options, interest rate swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage the duration of our investment portfolio and foreign currency exposures and also to obtain exposure to a particular financial market. In addition, as part of our investing activity, we purchase TBAs. These instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are sensitive to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity security prices. Changes in the fair value of TBAs are included in net realized gains (losses) and therefore have an immediate effect on both our net income and shareholders equity. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our notional exposure to investment derivative instruments was $16 billion and $17 billion, respectively. We seek to mitigate market risk using a number of techniques, including maintaining and managing the assets and liabilities of our international operations consistent with the foreign currencies of the underlying insurance and reinsurance businesses, thereby limiting exchange rate risk to net assets denominated in foreign currencies. Also, from time to time, we enter into derivative financial instruments for the purpose of managing certain investment portfolio exposures. The following is a discussion of our primary market risk exposures at December 31, 2006. Our policies to address these risks in 2006 were not materially different from 2005. We do not currently anticipate significant changes in our primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. Interest rate risk Our exposure to interest rate risk is primarily concentrated in our fixed income portfolio, our debt obligations and, to a lesser extent, our GMIB reinsurance business. Changes in investment values attributable to interest rate changes are mitigated by corresponding and partially offsetting changes in the economic value of our insurance reserves and debt obligations. We monitor this exposure through periodic reviews of our asset and liability positions. The following table shows the impact on the market value of our fixed income portfolio of an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points applied instantly across the yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario) at December 31, 2006 and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) December 312006 December 312005 Fair value of fixed income portfolio $ 34,011 $ 29,639 Pre tax impact of 100 basis point increase in interest rates $ 1,062 $ 824 Percentage of total fixed income portfolio at fair value 3.1% 2.8% Changes in interest rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Although our debt, preferred shares, and trust preferred securities (collectively referred to as debt obligations) are reported at amortized value and not adjusted for fair value changes, changes in interest rates could have a material impact on their fair value, albeit there is no immediate impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The 80 Table of Contents following table shows the impact on the market value of our debt obligations of a decrease in interest rates of 100 basis points applied instantly across the yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario) at December 31, 2006 and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) December 312006 December 312005 Fair value of debt obligations $ 3,219 $ 3,210 Impact of 100 basis point decrease in interest rates $ 257 $ 228 Percentage of total debt obligations at fair value 8.0% 7.1% Variations in market interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of prepayments due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual results could differ from those reflected in the tables. Our net income is directly impacted by changes in the fair value of GMIBs. Net realized gains of $nil and $18 million were reported for GMIB reinsurance in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The change in the fair value of GMIBs is determined using internal valuation models. Such valuations require considerable judgment and are subject to significant uncertainty. The valuation of these products is subject to fluctuations arising from, among other factors, changes in interest rates, changes in the equity markets and changes in the allocation of the investments underlying annuitants account value. These models and the related assumptions are continually reviewed by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon improvements in modeling techniques and availability of more timely information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. Including the effect of hedge derivatives, we estimate that based on in force annuities covered by GMIB reinsurance treaties at December 31, 2006, a downward parallel shift of the yield curve of 100 basis points would result in an unrealized loss of approximately $79 million. This estimated change in fair value would be recorded as net realized losses in our net income. The gain or loss created by the estimated fair value adjustment will rise or fall each period based on estimated market pricing and may not be an indication of ultimate claims. Equity price risk Our portfolio of equity securities, which we carry on our balance sheet at fair value, has exposure to price risk. This risk is defined as the potential loss in fair value resulting from adverse changes in stock prices. In addition, we attain exposure to the equity markets through the use of derivative instruments, which also have exposure to price risk. Our U.S. equity portfolio is correlated with the S&P 500 index and changes in that index would approximate the impact on our portfolio. Our international equity portfolio has exposure to a broad range of non U.S. equity markets. The following table provides more information on our exposure to equity price risk at December 31, 2006 and 2005. (millions of U.S. dollars) December 312006 December 312005 Fair value of equity securities $ 1,713 $ 1,507 Pre tax impact of 10 percent decline in market prices for equity exposures $ 171 $ 151 Changes in the fair value of our equity portfolio are recorded as unrealized appreciation (depreciation) and are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. As discussed above, our net income is directly impacted by changes in the fair value of GMIBs. Including the effect of hedge derivatives, we estimate that based on in force annuities covered by GMIB reinsurance treaties at December 31, 2006, a 10 percent decline in the S&P index would result in an unrealized loss of approximately $11 million. This estimated change in fair value would be recorded as net realized losses in our consolidated statement of operations. The gain or loss created by the estimated fair value adjustment will rise or fall each period based on estimated market pricing and may not be an indication of ultimate claims. 81 Table of Contents Foreign currency exchange rate risk Many of our non U.S. companies maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Therefore, foreign exchange rate risk is generally limited to net assets denominated in those foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. Locally required capital levels are invested in home currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk for us are the British pound sterling, the Euro dollar and the Canadian dollar. The following table provides more information on our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk at December 31, 2006 and 2005. (millions of U.S. dollars) December 312006 December 312005 Fair value of net assets denominated in foreign currencies $ 1,251 $ 995 Percentage of fair value of total net assets 8.8 % 8.4 % Pre tax impact on equity of hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of U.S. dollar $ 114 $ 90 
 
