Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except share, per share data,and selected data) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Operations data: Net premiums earned $ 12,297 $ 11,825 $ 11,748 $ 11,110 $ 9,727 Net investment income 1,918 1,601 1,264 1,013 900 Net realized gains (losses) (61 ) (98 ) 76 197 265 Losses and loss expenses 7,351 7,070 8,571 7,690 6,167 Life and annuity benefits 168 123 143 175 182 Policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses 3,226 3,171 2,924 2,824 2,539 Interest expense 175 176 174 183 177 Other (income) expense 81 (35 ) (25 ) 9 34 Income tax expense 575 522 273 286 311 Income before cumulative effect 2,578 2,301 1,028 1,153 1,482 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income tax) 4 Net income 2,578 2,305 1,028 1,153 1,482 Dividends on Preferred Shares (45 ) (45 ) (45 ) (45 ) (26 ) Dividends on Mezzanine equity (10 ) Net income available to holders of Ordinary Shares $ 2,533 $ 2,260 $ 983 $ 1,108 $ 1,446 Diluted earnings per share before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle $ 7.66 $ 6.90 $ 3.31 $ 3.88 $ 5.25 Diluted earnings per share(1) $ 7.66 $ 6.91 $ 3.31 $ 3.88 $ 5.25 Balance sheet data (at end of period): Total investments $ 41,779 $ 36,601 $ 31,842 $ 26,925 $ 22,555 Cash 510 565 512 498 559 Total assets 72,090 67,135 62,440 56,183 49,317 Net unpaid losses and loss expenses 23,592 22,008 20,458 17,517 14,674 Net future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts 537 508 510 494 477 Long term debt 1,811 1,560 1,811 1,849 1,349 Trust preferred securities 309 309 309 412 475 Total liabilities 55,413 52,857 50,628 46,338 40,494 Shareholders equity 16,677 14,278 11,812 9,845 8,823 Book value per share $ 48.89 $ 42.03 $ 34.81 $ 32.65 $ 29.53 Selected data Loss and loss expense ratio(2) 61.6% 61.2% 74.5% 70.7% 64.6% Underwriting and administrative expense ratio(3) 26.3% 26.9% 25.0% 25.6% 26.4% Combined ratio(4) 87.9% 88.1% 99.5% 96.3% 91.0% Net loss reserves to capital and surplus ratio(5) 144.7% 157.7% 177.5% 182.9% 171.7% Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 330,447,721 327,232,022 297,299,883 285,485,472 275,655,969 Cash dividends per share $ 1.06 $ 0.98 $ 0.90 $ 0.82 $ 0.74 (1) Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income available to holders of Ordinary Shares by weighted average shares outstanding diluted. (2) The loss and loss expense ratio is calculated by dividing the losses and loss expenses by net premiums earned excluding life insurance and reinsurance premiums. Net premiums earned for life insurance and reinsurance were $368 million, $274 million, $248 million, $226 million, and $187 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. (3) The underwriting and administrative expense ratio is calculated by dividing the policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses by net premiums earned excluding life insurance and reinsurance premiums. (4) The combined ratio is the sum of the loss and loss expense ratio and the underwriting and administrative expense ratio. (5) The net loss reserves to capital and surplus ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of the net unpaid losses and loss expenses and net future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts by shareholders equity. 33 Table of Contents ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity and capital resources as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Overview ACE Limited (ACE) is a Bermuda based holding company incorporated with limited liability under the Cayman Islands Companies Law. ACE and its direct and indirect subsidiaries are a global property and casualty (P&C) insurance and reinsurance organization, servicing the insurance needs of commercial and individual customers in more than 140 countries and jurisdictions. Our product and geographic diversification differentiates us from the vast majority of our competitors and has been a source of stability during periods of industry volatility. Our long term business strategy focuses on sustained growth in book value achieved through a combination of underwriting and investment income. By doing so, we provide value to our clients and shareholders through the utilization of our substantial capital base in the insurance and reinsurance markets. Our senior management team is well seasoned in the insurance industry and its attention to operational efficiency, maintaining balance sheet strength, and enforcing strong underwriting and financial discipline across the whole organization has laid the foundation for sustained earnings and book value growth. We are organized along a profit center structure by line of business and territory that does not necessarily correspond to corporate legal entities. Profit centers can access various legal entities, subject to licensing and other regulatory rules. Profit centers are expected to generate underwriting income and appropriate risk adjusted returns. This corporate structure has facilitated the development of management talent by giving each profit centers senior management team the necessary autonomy within underwriting authorities to make operating decisions and create products and coverages needed by its target customer base. We are an underwriting organization and senior management is focused on delivering underwriting profit. We strive to achieve underwriting income by only writing policies which we believe adequately compensate us for the risk we accept. We will not sacrifice underwriting income for growth. Distinction in service is an additional area of focus and a means to set us apart from our competition. As an insurance and reinsurance company, we generate gross revenues from two principal sources: premiums and investment income. Cash flow is generated from premiums collected and investment income received less paid losses and loss expenses, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses. Invested assets are generally held in liquid, investment grade fixed income securities of relatively short duration. We invest in equity securities in the U.S. and international markets. A small portion of our assets are held in less liquid or higher risk assets in an attempt to achieve higher risk adjusted returns. Claims payments in any short term period are highly unpredictable due to the random nature of loss events and the timing of claims awards or settlements. The value of investments held to pay future claims is subject to market forces such as the level of interest rates, stock market volatility, and credit events such as corporate defaults. The actual cost of claims is also volatile based on loss trends, inflation rates, court awards, and catastrophes. We believe that our cash balance, our highly liquid investments, credit facilities, and reinsurance protection provide sufficient liquidity to meet any unforeseen claim demands that might occur in the year ahead. On December 14, 2007, we entered into a stock purchase agreement with Aon Corporation, pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase all the outstanding shares of capital stock of Combined Insurance Company of America (Combined) and fourteen Combined subsidiaries. The all cash purchase price is $2.4 billion, subject to certain post closing adjustments. Combined, which was founded in 1919 and is headquartered in Glenview, Illinois, is a leading underwriter and distributor of specialty individual accident and supplemental health insurance products that are targeted to middle income consumers in the U.S., Europe, Canada, and Asia Pacific. Combined serves more than four million policyholders worldwide. We expect this transaction to be completed during the second quarter of 2008. We believe that this acquisition will add balance and capability to our existing accident and health (A&H) business and offers meaningful opportunity for future revenue and earnings growth. Outlook The insurance industry is highly competitive with many companies offering similar coverage. The rates and terms and conditions related to the products we offer have historically changed depending on the timing of the insurance cycle. During periods of excess underwriting capacity, as defined by availability of capital, competition can result in lower pricing and less favorable terms and conditions. Pricing and terms and conditions are generally more favorable during periods of reduced underwriting capacity. 34 Table of Contents The P&C industry is currently in a period of excess underwriting capacity and, as a result, prices are declining globally. The rate of decline is accelerating in some classes and staying relatively flat in others. Overall, the market continues to become more competitive and, given these conditions, we are focused on maintaining the levels of our renewals and writing less new business. This is reflected in our net premiums written which decreased slightly in 2007, compared with 2006. Despite this downward trend, we continue to see opportunity to expand our P&C business in the short and longer term in many places as we adapt our business to take advantage of the macroeconomic trends (and the risks that accompany them) taking place around the world. With considerable balance sheet strength, we also have the ability to grow both organically and opportunistically though acquisitions. Our A&H business continues to do well, growing 18 percent in 2007, compared with 2006. We continue to see good long term opportunity to grow our A&H franchise, particularly in the developing markets of Asia Pacific and Latin America, among other territories. Our life insurance and reinsurance business also had a very good year and together with A&H and the addition of Combined will represent close to 23 percent of our net premiums earned, on a pro forma basis. The financial markets crisis, which was triggered by defaults of sub prime mortgages in the third quarter of 2007, continues to dominate the landscape and is spreading to other forms of credit and beyond the U.S. This is contributing to a significant slowdown in the U.S. economy, and possibly recession, and we believe this will have a global impact. At the same time, there is the specter of inflation, and efforts to stimulate the U.S. economy may well increase the risk of inflation. Inflation and recession can have an impact on P&C operating results (particularly revenue) and claims frequency and severity. The financial and economic conditions are deteriorating in the face of a soft and softening global P&C market. We are adjusting quickly to ensure all levels of our underwriting organization, with the support of our claims and actuarial groups, focus on and manage risk with a clear recognition of the environment. On the asset side of the balance sheet, our conservative investment posture has served us well. Our exposure to sub prime asset backed securities was $135 million at December 31, 2007, which represented less than one percent of our investment portfolio. Refer to Investments for more information. On the liability side of the balance sheet, the sub prime crisis will be a sizable casualty event for the commercial P&C industry and particularly for those who have significant financial institution exposure. While we are underwriters of financial institution D&O and E&O business, it is not a significant part of our portfolio. In fact, we are relatively modest participants in this segment of the market. We estimate the size of the financial institutions market for D&O and E&O to be approximately $3 $4 billion in gross premiums written. ACE writes approximately $188 million of gross premiums in connection with U.S. exposed business which gives us less than a four percent market share. Our net premiums written are $143 million and our average net limit is $7.7 million for D&O and $3.2 million for E&O. All of the business is claims made, where determination of coverage is triggered by the date the insured first becomes aware of a claim or potential claim, and all legal defense expenses incurred by the insurer in defending the insured are covered under the policy. We may have losses from sub prime related events, and we have reflected that in our 2007 loss and loss expense ratios as appropriate.  Insurance Industry Investigations and Related Matters Information on the insurance industry investigations and related matters is set forth in Note 9 f) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. Critical Accounting Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements include amounts that, either by their nature or due to requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), are determined using best estimates and assumptions. While we believe that the amounts included in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect our best judgment, actual amounts could ultimately materially differ from those currently presented. We believe the items that require the most subjective and complex estimates are: unpaid loss and loss expense reserves, including asbestos and environmental (A&E) reserves; reinsurance recoverable, including a provision for uncollectible reinsurance; impairments to the carrying value of our investment portfolio; the valuation of deferred tax assets; the valuation of derivative instruments related to guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB); the valuation of goodwill; and the assessment of risk transfer for certain structured insurance and reinsurance contracts. We believe our accounting policies for these items are of critical importance to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion provides more information regarding the estimates and assumptions required to arrive at these amounts and should be read in conjunction with the sections entitled: Prior Period Development, Asbestos and Environmental 35 Table of Contents and Other Run off Liabilities, Reinsurance Recoverable on Ceded Reinsurance, Investments, Net Realized Gains (Losses), and Other Income and Expense Items. Unpaid losses and loss expenses As an insurance and reinsurance company, we are required, by applicable laws and regulations and GAAP, to establish loss and loss expense reserves for the estimated unpaid portion of the ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses under the terms of our policies and agreements with our insured and reinsured customers. The estimate of the liabilities includes provision for claims that have been reported but unpaid at the balance sheet date (case reserves) and for future obligations from claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR) at the balance sheet date (IBNR may also include a provision for additional development on reported claims in instances where the case reserve is viewed to be insufficient). The reserves provide for liabilities on the premium earned on policies as of the balance sheet date. The loss reserve also includes an estimate of expenses associated with processing and settling these unpaid claims (loss expenses). At December 31, 2007, our unpaid loss and loss expense reserves were $37.1 billion. With the exception of certain structured settlements, for which the timing and amount of future claim payments are reliably determinable, our loss reserves are not discounted for time value. In connection with such structured settlements, we carry reserves of $117 million (net of discount). The table below presents a roll forward of our unpaid losses and loss expenses for the indicated periods. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Losses Reinsurance Recoverable Net Losses Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 35,055 $ 14,597 $ 20,458 Losses and loss expenses incurred 9,902 2,832 7,070 Losses and loss expenses paid (9,230) (3,771) (5,459) Sale of certain run off reinsurance subsidiaries (789) (317) (472) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) 579 168 411 Balance at December 31, 2006 35,517 $ 13,509 $ 22,008 Losses and loss expenses incurred 10,831 3,480 7,351 Losses and loss expenses paid (9,516) (3,582) (5,934) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) 280 113 167 Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 37,112 $ 13,520 $ 23,592 The process of establishing loss reserves for property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments based on circumstances known at the date of accrual. The following table shows our total reserves segregated between case reserves (including loss expense reserves) and IBNR reserves at December 31, 2007 and 2006. 2007 2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Case reserves $ 15,625 $ 6,077 $ 9,548 $ 15,592 $ 6,135 $ 9,457 IBNR 21,487 7,443 14,044 19,925 7,374 12,551 Total $ 37,112 $ 13,520 $ 23,592 $ 35,517 $ 13,509 $ 22,008 36 Table of Contents The following table segregates the loss reserves by line of business including property and all other, casualty, and personal accident (A&H) at December 31, 2007 and 2006. In the table, loss expenses are defined to include unallocated and allocated loss adjustment expenses. For certain lines, in particular ACE International and ACE Bermuda products, loss adjustment expenses are included in IBNR and not in loss expenses. 2007 2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Property and all other Case reserves $ 2,901 $ 1,256 $ 1,645 $ 3,137 $ 1,306 $ 1,831 Loss expenses 230 55 175 167 34 133 IBNR 2,824 1,095 1,729 2,509 979 1,530 Subtotal 5,955 2,406 3,549 5,813 2,319 3,494 Casualty Case reserves 8,747 3,150 5,597 8,889 3,255 5,634 Loss expenses 3,348 1,544 1,804 3,023 1,469 1,554 IBNR 18,070 6,193 11,877 16,926 6,268 10,658 Subtotal 30,165 10,887 19,278 28,838 10,992 17,846 A&H Case reserves 370 68 302 351 69 282 Loss expenses 29 4 25 25 2 23 IBNR 593 155 438 490 127 363 Subtotal 992 227 765 866 198 668 Total Case reserves 12,018 4,474 7,544 12,377 4,630 7,747 Loss expenses 3,607 1,603 2,004 3,215 1,505 1,710 IBNR 21,487 7,443 14,044 19,925 7,374 12,551 Total $ 37,112 $ 13,520 $ 23,592 $ 35,517 $ 13,509 $ 22,008 The judgments used to estimate unpaid loss and loss expense reserves require different considerations depending upon the individual circumstances underlying the insured loss. For example, the reserves established for an excess casualty claim, A&E claims, losses from major catastrophic events, or the IBNR for product lines will each require different assumptions and judgments to be made. Necessary judgments are based on numerous factors and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methodologies are developed, or as current laws change. Hence, ultimate loss payments will differ from the estimate of the ultimate liability made at the balance sheet date. Changes to our previous estimates of prior period loss reserves can impact the reported calendar year underwriting results by worsening our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be deficient or improving our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be redundant. The potential for variation in loss reserves is impacted by numerous factors, which we explain below. We establish loss and loss expense reserves to reflect our liabilities from claims for all of the insurance and reinsurance business that we write. For those claims reported by insureds or ceding companies to us prior to the balance sheet date, case reserves are established by claims personnel as appropriate based on the circumstances of the claim(s), standard claim handling practices, and professional judgment. In respect of those claims that have been incurred but not reported prior to the balance sheet date, there is by definition limited actual information to form the reserve estimate and reliance is placed upon historical loss experience and actuarial methods to project the ultimate loss obligations and the corresponding amount of IBNR. Furthermore, for our assumed reinsurance operation, Global Reinsurance, an additional case reserve may sometimes be established above the amount notified by the ceding company if the notified case reserve is judged to be insufficient by Global Reinsurances claims department (refer to Assumed reinsurance below). We have actuarial staff within each of our operating segments who analyze loss reserves and regularly project estimates of ultimate losses and the required IBNR reserve. IBNR reserve estimates are generally calculated by first projecting the ultimate amount of expected claims for a product line and subtracting paid losses and case reserves for reported claims. The judgments involved in projecting the ultimate losses may involve the use and interpretation of various actuarial projection methods as well 37 Table of Contents as more qualitative factors that may impact the ultimate value of the losses such as actual loss experience, loss development patterns, and industry data. In addition, since standard actuarial projection methods place reliance on the extrapolation of historical data and patterns, the estimate of the IBNR reserve also requires judgment by actuaries and management to consider the impact from more contemporary and subjective factors. Among some of the factors that might be considered are changes in business mix or volume, changes in ceded reinsurance structures, reported and projected loss trends, inflation, legal environment, and the terms and conditions of the contracts sold to our insured parties. Finally, adjustments may be required to ensure that the derived IBNR reflects the exposure arising on the earned portion of premium as at the balance sheet date. Typically, for each product line, one or more standard actuarial reserving methods may be used to estimate ultimate losses and loss expenses and from these estimates a single actuarial provisional estimate is selected. Exceptions to the use of standard actuarial projection methods occur for individual claims of significance that require complex legal, claims, and actuarial analysis and judgment (i.e., A&E account projections or high excess casualty accounts in litigation). In addition, claims arising from catastrophic events require evaluation based upon our exposure at the time of the event and the circumstances of the catastrophe and its post event impact that do not utilize standard actuarial loss projection methods. The standard actuarial reserving methods may include, but are not necessarily limited to, paid and reported loss development, expected loss ratio, and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. A general description of these methods is provided below. In the subsequent discussion on short and long tail business, reference is also made where appropriate to how consideration in method selection impacted 2007 results. In addition to these standard methods, we may use other recognized actuarial methods and approaches depending upon the product line characteristics and available data. To ensure that the projections of future loss emergence from historical loss development patterns are representative of the underlying business, the historical loss and premium data is required to be of sufficient homogeneity and credibility. For example, to improve data homogeneity, we may group product line data further by similar risk attribute (e.g., geography, coverage such as property versus liability exposure, or origin year), project losses for these homogenous groups and then combine these results to provide the overall product line estimate. The premium and loss data is aggregated by origin year (e.g., the year in which the losses were incurred or accident year) and annual or quarterly periods subsequent to the origin year. Implicit in the standard accepted actuarial methodologies that we generally utilize is the need for two fundamental assumptions: first, the expected loss ratio for each origin year (i.e., accident, report, or underwriting) and second, the pattern in which losses are expected to emerge over time for each origin year. The expected loss ratio for any particular origin year is selected giving consideration to a number of potential factors including historical loss ratios adjusted for intervening premium and loss trends, industry benchmarks, the results of policy level loss modeling at the time of underwriting, and other more subjective considerations of the product line and external environment as noted above. For the more recent origin years, the expected loss ratio for a given origin year is established at the start of the origin year as part of the planning process. This analysis is performed in conjunction with underwriters and management. The expected loss ratio method arrives at an ultimate loss estimate by taking this estimate of the initial expected ultimate loss ratio and multiplying by the corresponding premium base. This method is most commonly used for immature origin periods on product lines where the actual paid or reported loss experience is not yet credible enough to override our initial expectations of the ultimate loss ratio. In addition, the expected loss ratio may be modified should underlying assumptions such as loss trend or premium rate changes differ from the original assumptions. Our assumed paid and reported development patterns provide a benchmark against which the actual emerging loss experience can be monitored. Where possible, development patterns are selected based on historical loss emergence by origin year with appropriate allowance for changes in business mix, claims handling process, or ceded reinsurance that are likely to lead to a discernible difference between the rate of historical and future loss emergence. For product lines where the historical data is viewed to have low statistical credibility, the selected development patterns will also reflect relevant industry benchmarks and or experience from similar product lines written elsewhere within ACE. This typically arises for product lines that are relatively immature or with high severity/low frequency portfolios and for which our historical experience exhibits considerable volatility and or lacks credibility. The paid and reported loss development methods convert the assumed loss emergence pattern to a set of multiplicative factors which are then applied to actual paid or reported losses to arrive at an estimate of ultimate losses for each period. Due to their multiplicative nature, the paid and reported loss development methods magnify deviations between actual and expected loss emergence. Therefore, these methods tend to be favored for more mature origin periods and for those portfolios where the loss emergence has been relatively consistent over time. The Bornhuetter Ferguson method is essentially a combination of the expected loss ratio method and the loss development method, under which the loss development method is given more weight as the origin year matures. This approach allows a logical transition between the expected loss ratio method which is generally utilized at earlier maturities and the loss 38 Table of Contents development methods which are favored at latter maturities. We usually apply this method using reported loss data although paid data may be used. The applicability of reserve methods will also be determined by the attachment point of the policy or contract with the insured or ceding company. In the case of low attachment points typical of primary or working layer reinsurance, the experience will tend to be more frequency driven. These product types allow for the standard actuarial methods to be used in determining loss reserve levels, as it is often customary to have the appropriate historical record and volume of claims experience to rely upon. In the case of high attachment points typical of excess insurance or excess of loss reinsurance, the experience will tend to be severity driven, as only a loss of significant size will enter the layer. For structured or unique contracts, most common to the financial solutions business (which we have ceased writing) and, to a lesser extent, our reinsurance business, the standard actuarial methods need to be tempered with an analysis of each contracts terms, original pricing information, subsequent internal and external analyses of the ongoing contracts, market exposures and history, and qualitative input from claims managers. Our recorded reserves represent managements best estimate of the provision for unpaid claims as of the balance sheet date. Each product line has an actuarial reserve review performed and an actuarial provisional estimate is established at the reviews conclusion. The process to select the actuarial provisional estimate, when more than one estimate is available, may differ across product lines. For example, an actuary may base the provisional estimate on loss projections developed using an incurred loss development approach instead of a paid loss development approach when reported losses are viewed to be a more credible indication of the ultimate loss compared with paid losses. The availability of estimates by different projection techniques will depend upon the product line, the underwriting circumstances, and the maturity of the loss emergence. For a well established product line with sufficient volume and history, the actuarial provisional estimate may be drawn from a weighting of paid and reported loss development and or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. However, for a new long tail product line for which we have limited data and experience or a rapidly growing line, the emerging loss experience will unlikely have sufficient stability to allow selection of loss development or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and reliance will be placed upon the initial expected loss ratio method as the actuarial provisional estimate until the experience matures. The actuarial provisional estimate is then developed into managements best estimate with collaboration with underwriting, claims, legal, and finance departments and culminates with the input of reserve committees. Each business unit reserve committee includes the participation of the relevant parties from actuarial, finance, claims, and executive management and has the responsibility for finalizing and approving the estimate to be used as managements best estimate. Reserves are further reviewed by ACEs Chief Actuary and senior management. The objective of such a process is to determine a single estimate that we believe represents a better estimate than any other. Such an estimate is viewed by management to support the most likely outcome of ultimate loss settlements and is determined based on several factors including, but not limited to: Segmentation of data to provide sufficient homogeneity and credibility for loss projection methods; Extent of internal historical loss data, and industry where required; Historical variability of loss estimates compared with actual loss experience; Perceived credibility of emerged loss experience; and Nature and extent of underlying assumptions. Management does not build in any specific provision for uncertainty. We do not calculate a range of loss reserve estimates for our individual loss reserve studies. In particular, ranges are not necessarily a true reflection of the potential volatility between loss reserves estimated at the balance sheet date and the ultimate settlement value of losses. This is due to the fact that an actuarial range is developed based on known events as of the valuation date whereas actual volatility or prior period development has historically been reported in subsequent Consolidated Financial Statements, in part from events and circumstances that were unknown as of the original valuation date. While we believe that our recorded reserves are reasonable and represent managements best estimate for each product line as of the current valuation date, future changes to our view of the ultimate liabilities are possible. A five percent change in our net loss reserves equates to $1.1 billion and represents 37 percent of our net income before taxes for 2007 and seven percent of shareholders equity at December 31, 2007. Historically, including A&E reserve charges, our reserves, at times, have developed in excess of 10 percent of recorded amounts. Refer to Analysis of Losses and Loss Expense Development, under Item 1 for a summary of historical volatility between estimated loss reserves and ultimate loss settlements. We perform internal loss reserve studies for all product lines at least once a year; the timing of such studies varies throughout the year. External loss reserve studies are performed periodically and are compared to our internal results. Additionally, each quarter for each product line, we review the emergence of actual losses relative to expectations used in reserving. If warranted from findings in loss emergence tests, we will accelerate the timing of our product line reserve studies. Finally, external loss reserve studies are performed annually and are compared to our internal results to ensure reasonability of internal findings. 39 Table of Contents The time period between the date of loss occurrence and the final payment date of the ensuing claim(s) is referred to as the claim tail. The following is a discussion of specific reserving considerations for both short tail and long tail product lines. In this section, we reference the nature of recent prior period development to give a high level understanding of how these considerations translate through the reserving process into financial decisions. Refer to Segment Operating Results for more information on prior period development. Short tail business Short tail business generally describes product lines for which losses are usually known and paid shortly after the loss actually occurs. This would include, for example, most property, personal accident, aviation hull, and automobile physical damage policies that are written. There are some exceptions on certain product lines (e.g., workers compensation catastrophe) or events (e.g., major hurricanes) where the event has occurred, but the final settlement amount is highly variable and not known with certainty for a potentially lengthy period. Due to the short reporting development pattern for these product lines, our estimate of ultimate losses from any particular accident period responds quickly to the latest loss data. We will typically assign credibility to methods that incorporate actual loss emergence, such as the paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, sooner than would be the case for long tail lines at a similar stage of development from the origin year. The reserving process for short tail losses arising from catastrophic events typically involves the determination by the claims department, in conjunction with underwriters and actuaries, of our exposure and likely losses immediately following an event and the subsequent regular refinement of those losses as our insureds provide updated actual loss information. For the 2007 accident year, the short tail line loss reserves were typically established using the expected loss ratio method for the non catastrophe exposures. In addition, reserves were also established for losses arising on catastrophe activity during 2007. The underlying calculation for the non catastrophe portion requires initial expected loss ratios by product line, as adjusted for actual experience during the progression of the 2007 calendar year. As previously noted, the derivation of initial loss ratios incorporates actuarial assumptions on projections of prior years loss experience, past and future loss, and exposure trends, rate adequacy of new and renewal business, and ceded reinsurance costs. In addition, we considered our view of terms and conditions and the market environment, which by their nature tend to be more judgmental relative to other factors. For our short tail businesses taken as a whole, overall loss trend assumptions have not differed significantly relative to prior years. Because there is some random volatility of non catastrophe loss experience from year to year, we considered average loss experience over several years when developing loss estimates for the current accident year. Therefore, while there has been favorable loss development in recent years on non catastrophe exposures, the effect of this favorable development on expected loss ratios for the current accident year is relatively small. Further, other considerations, such as rate reductions and broadening of terms and conditions in a competitive market somewhat offset this favorable effect. In terms of prior accident years, the bulk of changes made in the 2007 calendar year arose from the 2006 and 2005 accident years. Specifically, the Insurance Overseas General segment experienced $121 million of favorable development due to lower than anticipated loss emergence on the 2005 and 2006 accident years and the Insurance North American segment experienced $115 million of adverse development related to 2004 and 2005 catastrophes. In both instances, these prior period movements were primarily the result of changes to the ultimate loss estimates for the respective 2004 to 2006 accident years to better reflect the latest reported loss data rather than any changes to underlying actuarial assumptions such as loss development patterns. The process used to establish the 2007 year end reserves for the 2004 and 2005 catastrophes involved a detailed review by the claims department of the causation and coverage issues of each underlying claim. Given the unique circumstances around the events, historical trends and loss development patterns are not applicable. As discussed in the prior period development discussions under Segment Operating Results, the actual claims experience was worse than anticipated and, as such, the ultimate loss estimates were revised to reflect that loss emergence. For the reserves covering the non catastrophe related exposures in the 2006 and prior accident years, the change in ultimate loss reflected recognition of actual favorable loss emergence rather than explicit changes to assumptions on the loss development patterns to project future loss emergence. The actual non catastrophe related loss emergence over 2005 2007 calendar years has been favorable but within a range of expected outcomes and the experience from these years was considered when establishing the expectation of 2007 accident year losses. For a detailed analysis of changes in assumptions related to prior accident year reserves during calendar year 2007, refer to Prior Period Development. 40 Table of Contents Long tail business Long tail business describes lines of business for which specific losses may not be known for some period and claims can take significant time to emerge. This includes most casualty lines such as general liability, directors and officers liability (D&O) and workers compensation. There are many factors contributing to the uncertainty and volatility of long tail business. Among these are: Our historical loss data and experience is often too immature and lacking in credibility to place reliance upon for reserving purposes. Instead, we place reliance in our reserve methods on industry loss ratios or industry benchmark development patterns that are anticipated to reflect the nature and coverage of the underwritten business and its future development. For such product lines, actual loss experience is apt to differ from industry loss statistics that are based on averages as well as loss experience of previous underwriting years; The inherent uncertainty around loss trends, claims inflation (e.g., medical and judicial) and underlying economic conditions; The inherent uncertainty of the estimated duration of the paid and reporting loss development patterns beyond the historical record requires that professional judgment be used in the determination of the length of the patterns based on the historical data and other information; The inherent uncertainty of assuming historical paid and reported loss development patterns on older origin years will be representative of subsequent loss emergence on newer origin years. For example, changes in establishing case reserves can distort reported loss development patterns or changes in ceded reinsurance structures by origin year can distort the development of paid and reported losses; The possibility of future litigation, legislative or judicial change that might impact future loss experience relative to prior loss experience relied upon in loss reserve analyses; Loss reserve analyses typically require loss or other data be grouped by common characteristics in some manner. If data from two combined lines of business exhibit different characteristics, such as loss payment patterns, the credibility of the reserve estimate could be affected. Additionally, since casualty lines of business can have significant intricacies in the terms and conditions afforded to the insured, there is an inherent risk as to the homogeneity of the underlying data used in performing reserve analyses; and The applicability of the price change data used to estimate ultimate loss ratios for most recent origin years. As can be seen from the above, various factors are considered when determining appropriate data, assumptions, and methods used to establish the loss reserve for the long tail product lines. These factors will also vary by origin year for given product lines. The derivation of loss development patterns from data and the selection of a tail factor to project ultimate losses from actual loss emergence require considerable judgment, particularly with respect to the extent of historical loss experience that provides credible support to changes in key reserving assumptions. Examples of the relationship between changes in historical loss experience and key reserving assumptions are provided below. For those long tail product lines that are less claim frequency and more claim severity oriented, such as professional lines and high excess casualty, we placed more reliance upon expert legal and claims review of the specific circumstance underlying reported cases rather than loss development patterns. The assumptions used for these lines of business were updated in response to new claim and legal advice judged to be of significance. For the 2007 accident year, loss reserves were typically established through the application of individual product line initial expected loss ratios that require contemplation of assumptions similar in nature to those noted in the short tail line discussion. Our assumptions on loss trend and development patterns reflect reliance on our historical loss data provided the length of history and homogeneity afford credibility. Given the recent growth on a number of product lines, such as general casualty and financial lines, our historical loss data is less extensive and our assumptions require judgmental use of industry loss trends and development patterns. We note that industry patterns are not always available to match the nature of the business being written; this issue is particularly problematic for non U.S. exposed lines. Given the underlying volatility of the long tail product lines and the lengthy period required for full paid and reported loss emergence, we typically assign little to no credibility to actual loss emergence in the recent development periods. Accordingly, we generally used the initial expected loss ratio method for the 2007 and immediately preceding origin years to establish reserves by product line. We monitor actual paid and reported loss emergence with expected loss emergence for each key individual product line. While recent experience has generally been favorable relative to our internal expectations, we do not yet believe experience is sufficiently credible for us to consider moving to loss based projection methods in setting reserves. Our best estimate based on information received to date for our 2007 loss ratios reflect what we believe is our exposure to sub prime losses (E&O and D&O). Given the nature of long tail casualty business and related reserving considerations, for the major long tail lines in Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, and Global Reinsurance, no changes of significance were made to 41 Table of Contents the key actuarial assumptions for the loss trend (aside from changes to inflation assumptions), exposure trend, and loss development patterns used to establish the 2007 accident year reserves relative to prior accident years. Typically for the 2004 2006 accident years, to the extent that actual loss emergence in calendar year 2007 differed from our expectation in the more recent origin years, the deviation was not seen as sufficiently credible, particularly given the volatility and lengthy period for full loss emergence, to alter either our booked ultimate loss selections or the set of actuarial assumptions underlying the reserving review for that particular portfolio. Such judgments were made with due consideration to the factors impacting reserve uncertainty as discussed above. However, for some product lines, credibility was assigned to emerging loss experience and this is discussed further below and in the section entitled Prior Period Development. For more mature accident years, typically 2003 and prior, we used paid and reported loss patterns in the reserve setting process on older accident years where sufficient credibility existed. For those lines lacking data credibility, we placed reliance upon the latest benchmark patterns (where available) from external industry bodies such as Insurance Services Office (ISO) or the National Council on Compensation Insurance, Inc. (NCCI). Accordingly, the assumptions used to project loss estimates will not fully reflect our own actual loss experience until credibility is determined. In contrast to short tail lines, the prior period development in 2007 for long tail lines of business arose across a number of accident years in the Insurance North American and Insurance Overseas General segments, typically more removed from the recent accident years. The movements were generally the result of actual loss emergence in calendar year 2007 that differed materially from the expected loss emergence and these deviations were significant enough in certain product lines to warrant revising the projections. The nature of the assumptions altered in 2007, and impacting the prior accident years, varies by the specifics of each product line. For example, in Insurance North American the alterations to estimates for national account casualty and workers compensation lines involved retaining the original paid and reported loss development assumptions but assigning greater credibility to actual loss experience; i.e. more weight was given to paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods rather than the expected loss ratio methods on the 2002 2004 accident years. This resulted in $21 million favorable development and $28 million adverse development for the casualty and workers compensation lines, respectively. Similarly, for Insurance Overseas General, there was $23 million of favorable development on the 2003 2005 accident years as more weight was given to paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods rather than the expected loss ratio methods. In addition, an update of our detailed annual evaluation of the excess exposures at Insurance Overseas General resulted in net favorable prior period development of $20 million which comprised strengthening of $89 million in accident years 2003 and prior and $45 million in accident year 2006 and a release of $154 million in accident years 2004 and 2005. While we believe our reserve for unpaid losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2007, is adequate, new information or emerging trends different from assumptions may lead to future developments in ultimate losses and loss expenses significantly greater or less than the reserve provided, which could have a material effect on future operating results. As noted previously, our best estimate of required loss reserves for most portfolios is judgmentally selected for each origin year after considering the results from any number of reserving methodologies rather than being a purely mechanical process. Therefore, it is difficult to convey, in a simple and quantitative manner, the impact that a change to a single assumption will have on our best estimate. In the examples shown below, we attempt to give an indication of the potential impact by isolating a single change for a specific reserving method that would be pertinent in establishing the best estimate for the product line described. We consider each of the following sensitivity analyses to represent a reasonably likely deviation in the underlying assumption. Insurance North American Given the long reporting and paid development pattern, the tail factors used to project actual current losses to ultimate losses for claims covered by our inactive middle market workers compensation business requires considerable judgment that could be material to consolidated loss and loss expense reserves. Specifically, when applying the paid loss development method, a one percent change in the tail factor (i.e., 1.04 changed to either 1.05 or 1.03) would cause a change of approximately $46 million, either positively or negatively, for the projected net loss and loss expense reserves. This is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $285 million. Our ACE Bermuda operations write predominantly high excess liability coverage on an occurrence first reported basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $300 million and limits of $100 million gross or less) and D&O and other professional liability coverage on a claims made basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $100 million and limits of $50 million gross or less). Claims development for this business can vary significantly for individual claims and historically could vary by as much as $50 million per claim for professional liability and $100 million per claim for excess liability depending on the nature of the loss. 42 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General Certain long tail lines, such as casualty and professional lines, are particularly susceptible to changes in loss trend and claim inflation. Heightened perceptions of tort and settlement awards around the world are increasing the demand for these products as well as contributing to the uncertainty of the reserving estimates. Our reserving methods rely on loss development patterns estimated from historical data and while we attempt to adjust such factors for known changes in the current tort environment, it is possible that such factors may not entirely reflect all recent trends in tort environments. For example, when applying the reported loss development method, the lengthening by six months of our selected loss development patterns would increase reserve estimates on long tail casualty and professional lines by approximately $271 million. This movement is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $3.4 billion. Global Reinsurance Typically, there is inherent uncertainty around the length of paid and reporting development patterns, especially for certain casualty lines such as excess workers compensation or general liability, which may take up to 30 years to fully develop. This uncertainty is accentuated by the need to supplement client development patterns with industry development patterns as justified by the credibility of the data. The underlying source and selection of the final development pattern can thus have a significant impact on the selected net losses and loss expenses ultimate. For example, a twenty percent shortening or lengthening of the development patterns used for U.S. long tail lines would cause the loss reserve estimate derived by the reported Bornhuetter Ferguson method for these lines to change by approximately $140 million. This movement is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $1.7 billion. Assumed reinsurance At December 31, 2007, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.8 billion, consisting of $750 million of case reserves and $2.0 billion of IBNR. In comparison, at December 31, 2006, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.6 billion, consisting of $778 million of case reserves and $1.8 billion of IBNR. For catastrophe business, we principally estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses on an event basis by considering various sources of information, including specific loss estimates reported by our cedants, ceding company and overall industry loss estimates reported by our brokers, and our internal data regarding reinsured exposures related to the geographical location of the event. Our internal data analysis enables us to establish catastrophe reserves for known events with more certainty at an earlier date than would be the case if we solely relied on reports from third parties to determine carried reserves. For our casualty reinsurance business, we generally rely on ceding companies to report claims and then use that data as a key input to estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses. Due to the reliance on claims information reported by ceding companies, as well as other factors, the estimation of unpaid losses and loss expenses for assumed reinsurance includes certain risks and uncertainties that are unique relative to our direct insurance business. These include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: The reported claims information could be inaccurate; Typically, a lag exists between the reporting of a loss event to a ceding company and its reporting to us as a reinsurance claim. The use of a broker to transmit financial information from a ceding company to us increases the reporting lag. Because most of our reinsurance business is produced by brokers, ceding companies generally first submit claim and other financial information to brokers, who then report the proportionate share of such information to each reinsurer of a particular treaty. The reporting lag generally results in a longer period of time between the date a claim is incurred and the date a claim is reported compared with direct insurance operations. Therefore, the risk of delayed recognition of loss reserve development is higher for assumed reinsurance than for direct insurance lines; and The historical claims data for a particular reinsurance contract can be limited relative to our insurance business in that there may be less historical information available. Further, for certain coverages provided by products, such as excess of loss contracts, there may be relatively few expected claims in a particular year so the actual number of claims may be susceptible to significant variability. In such cases, the actuary often relies on industry data from several recognized sources. We mitigate the above risks in several ways. In addition to routine analytical reviews of ceding company reports to ensure reported claims information appears reasonable, we perform regular underwriting and claims audits of certain ceding companies to ensure reported claims information is accurate, complete, and timely. As appropriate, audit findings are used to adjust claims in the reserving process. We also use our knowledge of the historical development of losses from individual ceding companies to adjust the level of adequacy we believe exists in the reported ceded losses. 43 Table of Contents On occasion, there will be differences between our carried loss reserves and unearned premiums reserves and the amount of loss reserves and unearned premiums reserves reported by the ceding companies. This is due to the fact that we receive consistent and timely information from ceding companies only with respect to case reserves. For IBNR, we use historical experience and other statistical information, depending on the type of business, to estimate the ultimate loss (see Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses for more information). We estimate our unearned premiums reserve by applying estimated earning patterns to net premiums written for each treaty based upon that treatys coverage basis (i.e., risks attaching or losses occurring). At December 31, 2007, the case reserves reported to us by our ceding companies were $723 million, compared with the $750 million we recorded. Our policy is to post additional case reserves in addition to the amounts reported by our cedants when our evaluation of the ultimate value of a reported claim is different than the evaluation of that claim by our cedant. Within the Insurance North American segment, we also have exposure to certain liability reinsurance lines that have been in run off since 1994. Unpaid losses and loss expenses relating to this run off reinsurance business resides within the Brandywine Division of our Insurance North American segment. Most of the remaining unpaid losses and loss expense reserves for the run off reinsurance business relate to A&E claims. (Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information.) Asbestos and environmental reserves Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are liabilities for asbestos and environmental claims and expenses. These claims are principally related to claims arising from remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites and bodily injury claims related to exposure to asbestos products and environmental hazards. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to the recent legal environment, including specific settlements that may be used as precedents to settle future claims. During 2007, we conducted a review of our consolidated A&E liabilities as of June 30, 2007. As a result of the internal review, we concluded that our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, were adequate and, therefore, no change to the carried reserve was required. An internal review was also conducted during 2006 for our consolidated A&E liabilities as of June 30, 2006. For that review, we concluded that our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, were adequate and, therefore, no change to the carried net reserve was required, while the gross loss reserves increased by approximately $210 million. In 2006, a team of external actuaries performed an evaluation as to the adequacy of the reserves of Century Indemnity Company (Century). This external review was conducted in accordance with the Brandywine Restructuring Order, which requires that an external actuarial review of Centurys reserves be completed every two years. The results of the external review were addressed with the Pennsylvania Insurance Department and no changes to statutory basis loss reserves were deemed necessary. Our A&E reserves are not discounted and do not reflect any anticipated future changes in the legal, social, or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. There are many complex variables that we consider when estimating the reserves for our inventory of asbestos accounts and these variables may directly impact the predicted outcome. We believe the most significant variables relating to our A&E reserves include assumptions regarding trends with respect to claim severity and the frequency of higher severity claims, the ability of a claimant to bring a claim in a state in which they have no residency or exposure, the ability of a policyholder to claim the right to non products coverage, whether high level excess policies have the potential to be accessed given the policyholders claim trends and liability situation, and payments to unimpaired claimants and the potential liability of peripheral defendants. Based on the policies, the facts, the law, and a careful analysis of the impact that these factors will likely have on any given account, we estimate the potential liability for indemnity, policyholder defense costs, and coverage litigation expense. The results in asbestos cases announced by other carriers may well have little or no relevance to us because coverage exposures are highly dependent upon the specific facts of individual coverage and resolution status of disputes among carriers, policyholders, and claimants. Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information. Reinsurance recoverable Reinsurance recoverable includes the balances due to us from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses, and is presented net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is determined based upon a review of the financial condition of the reinsurers and other factors. Ceded reinsurance contracts do not relieve our primary obligation to our policyholders. Consequently, an exposure exists with respect to reinsurance recover 44 Table of Contents able to the extent that any reinsurer is unable to meet its obligations or disputes the liabilities assumed under the reinsurance contracts. We determine the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses using actuarial estimates as well as a determination of our ability to cede unpaid losses and loss expenses under existing reinsurance contracts. The recognition of a reinsurance recoverable asset requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves our estimation based on the amount of gross reserves and the percentage of that amount which may be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR, which is a major component of the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, is generally developed as part of our loss reserving process and, consequently, its estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross IBNR (refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses). The second judgment involves our estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that we may ultimately be unable to recover from reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable asset and, in turn, shareholders equity. Changes in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance are reflected in net income. Although the contractual obligation of individual reinsurers to pay their reinsurance obligations is based on specific contract provisions, the collectability of such amounts requires estimation by management. The majority of the balance we have accrued as recoverable will not be due for collection until sometime in the future, in some cases, several decades from now. Over this period of time, economic conditions and operational performance of a particular reinsurer may impact their ability to meet these obligations and while they may continue to acknowledge their contractual obligation to do so, they may not have the financial resources or willingness to fully meet their obligation to us. To estimate the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, the reinsurance recoverable must first be determined for each reinsurer. This determination is based on a process rather than an estimate, although an element of judgment must be applied. As part of the process, ceded IBNR is allocated to reinsurance contracts because ceded IBNR is not generally calculated on a contract by contract basis. The allocations are generally based on premiums ceded under reinsurance contracts, adjusted for actual loss experience and historical relationships between gross and ceded losses. If actual experience varies materially from historical experience, including that used to determine ceded premium, the allocation of reinsurance recoverable by reinsurer will change. While such change is unlikely to result in a large percentage change in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, it could, nevertheless, have a material effect on our net income in the period recorded. Generally, we use a default analysis to estimate uncollectible reinsurance. The primary components of the default analysis are reinsurance recoverable balances by reinsurer, net of collateral, and default factors used to estimate the probability that the reinsurer may be unable to meet its future obligations in full. The definition of collateral for this purpose requires some judgment and is generally limited to assets held in an ACE only beneficiary trust, letters of credit, and liabilities held by us with the same legal entity for which we believe there is a right of offset. We do not currently include multi beneficiary trusts. However, we have several reinsurers that have established multi beneficiary trusts for which certain of our companies are beneficiaries. The determination of the default factor is principally based on the financial strength rating of the reinsurer and a corresponding default factor applicable to the financial strength rating. Default factors require considerable judgment and are determined using the current financial strength rating, or rating equivalent, of each reinsurer as well as other key considerations and assumptions. Significant considerations and assumptions include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: For reinsurers that maintain a financial strength rating from a major rating agency, and for which recoverable balances are considered representative of the larger population (i.e., default probabilities are consistent with similarly rated reinsurers and payment durations conform to averages), the judgment exercised by management to determine the provision for uncollectible reinsurance of each reinsurer is typically limited because the financial rating is based on a published source and the default factor we apply is based on a default factor of a major rating agency applicable to the particular rating class. Default factors applied for financial ratings of AAA, AA, A, BBB, BB, B, and CCC, are 0.5 percent, 1.2 percent, 1.9 percent, 4.7 percent, 9.6 percent, 23.8 percent and 49.7 percent, respectively. Because the model we use is predicated on the default factors of a major rating agency, we do not generally consider alternative factors. However, when a recoverable is expected to be paid in a brief period of time by a highly rated reinsurer, such as certain property catastrophe claims, a default factor may not be applied; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are both unrated by a major rating agency and for which management is unable to determine a credible rating equivalent based on a parent, affiliate, or peer company, we determine a rating equivalent based on an analysis of the reinsurer that considers an assessment of the creditworthiness of the particular entity, industry benchmarks, or other factors as considered appropriate. We then apply the applicable default factor for that rating class. For balances recoverable from unrated reinsurers for which our ceded reserve is below a certain threshold, we generally apply a default factor of 25 percent; 45 Table of Contents For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are either insolvent or under regulatory supervision, we establish a default factor and resulting provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on specific facts and circumstances surrounding each company. Upon initial notification of an insolvency, we generally recognize expense for a substantial portion of all balances outstanding, net of collateral, through a combination of write offs of recoverable balances and increases to the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. When regulatory action is taken on a reinsurer, we generally recognize a default factor by estimating an expected recovery on all balances outstanding, net of collateral. When sufficient credible information becomes available, we adjust the provision for uncollectible reinsurance by establishing a default factor pursuant to information received; and For captives and other recoverables, management determines the provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on the specific facts and circumstances. The following table summarizes reinsurance recoverables and the provision for uncollectible reinsurance for each type of recoverable balance at December 31, 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) TotalReinsuranceRecoverables Recoverables(Net of UsableCollateral) Provision forUncollectibleReinsurance Type Reinsurers with credit ratings $ 11,452 $ 10,561 $ 232 Reinsurers not rated 708 583 259 Reinsurers under supervision and insolvent reinsurers 195 181 128 Captives 1,508 423 21 Other structured settlements and pools 1,185 1,185 46 Total $ 15,048 $ 12,933 $ 686 At December 31, 2007, the use of different assumptions within our approach could have a material effect on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent the creditworthiness of our reinsurers were to deteriorate due to an adverse event affecting the reinsurance industry, such as a large number of major catastrophes, actual uncollectible amounts could be significantly greater than our provision for uncollectible reinsurance. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and our liquidity. Given the various considerations used to estimate our uncollectible provision, we cannot precisely quantify the effect a specific industry event may have on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. However, based on the composition (particularly the average credit quality) of the reinsurance recoverable balance at December 31, 2007, we estimate that a ratings downgrade of one notch for all rated reinsurers (i.e, from A to A or A to BBB+) could increase our provision for uncollectible reinsurance by approximately $166 million or approximately one percent of the reinsurance recoverable balance, assuming no other changes relevant to the calculation. While a ratings downgrade would result in an increase in our provision for uncollectible reinsurance and a charge to earnings in that period, a downgrade in and of itself does not imply that we will be unable to collect all of the ceded reinsurance recoverable from the reinsurers in question. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Investments Our fixed maturity investments are classified as either available for sale or held to maturity. Our available for sale portfolio is reported at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in shareholders equity as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Fair value is determined using the quoted market price of these securities provided by either independent pricing services, or when such prices are not available, by reference to broker or underwriter bid indications. We regularly review our impaired investments (i.e., those debt securities for which fair value is below amortized cost or those equity securities for which fair value is below cost) for a possible other than temporary impairment. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record the decline as an unrealized loss in our shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the book value of the investment and record a realized loss in our consolidated statement of operations. An impairment is considered other than temporary unless we have the ability and intent to hold the investment to recovery of the cost of the investment, and evidence indicating the cost of the investment is recoverable within a reasonable period outweighs evidence to the contrary. The determination as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary principally requires the following critical judgments: i) the circumstances that require management to make a specific assessment as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary, such as the time period an investment has been in a loss position and the significance of the decline; and ii) for those securities to be assessed, whether we have the 46 Table of Contents ability and intent to hold the security through an expected recovery period, absent a significant change in facts that would be expected to have a material adverse effect on either the financial markets or the financial position of the issuer. With respect to securities where the decline in value is determined to be temporary and the securitys value is not written down, a subsequent decision may be made to sell that security and realize a loss. Subsequent decisions on security sales could be made based on changes in liquidity needs (i.e., arising from a large insured loss such as a catastrophe), internal risk management considerations, the financial condition of the issuer or its industry, market conditions, and new investment opportunities. Day to day management of the majority of our investment portfolio is outsourced to third party investment managers. The dynamic nature of portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell the security and realize the loss based upon new circumstances such as those related to the changes described above. We believe that subsequent decisions to sell such securities are consistent with the classification of the majority of our portfolio as available for sale. The gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2007, for all securities in a loss position was $391 million with $6 million in an unrealized loss position for over 12 months ($4 million was related to fixed maturities held to maturity). Our net realized losses in 2007 included write downs of $141 million of which $123 million was related to fixed maturities. This compares with write downs of $214 million and $88 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The impairments recorded in 2007 and 2006 were primarily due to an increase in market interest rates from the date of security purchase and as such, were not credit related. Because our investment portfolio is the largest component of consolidated assets and a multiple of shareholders equity, adverse changes in economic conditions subsequent to the balance sheet date could result in other than temporary impairments that are material to our financial condition and operating results. Such economic changes could arise from overall changes in the financial markets and specific changes to industries, companies, or foreign governments in which we maintain relatively large investment holdings. Further, an increase in interest rates could result in an increased number of fixed maturities for which we cannot support the intent to hold to recovery. More information regarding our process for reviewing our portfolio for possible impairments can be found in the section entitled Net Realized Gains (Losses). Deferred tax assets Many of our insurance businesses operate in income tax paying jurisdictions. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities primarily result from temporary differences between the amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities separately for each tax paying component (an individual entity or group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes) in each tax jurisdiction. At December 31, 2007, our net deferred tax asset was $1.1 billion. (Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information). At each balance sheet date, management assesses the need to establish a valuation allowance that reduces deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that all, or some portion, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance is based on all available information including projections of future taxable income from each tax paying component in each tax jurisdiction, principally derived from business plans and available tax planning strategies. Projections of future taxable income incorporate several assumptions of future business and operations that are apt to differ from actual experience. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates that resulted in our forecast of future taxable income for each tax paying component proves to be incorrect, an additional valuation allowance could become necessary. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. At December 31, 2007, the valuation allowance of $41 million (including $24 million with respect to foreign tax credits) reflects managements assessment that it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized due to the inability of certain foreign subsidiaries to generate sufficient taxable income or the inability to utilize foreign tax credits. Guaranteed minimum income benefits derivatives Under reinsurance programs covering living benefit guarantees, we assume the risk of guaranteed minimum income benefits associated with variable annuity contracts. Our GMIB reinsurance product meets the definition of a derivative for accounting purposes and is therefore carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net realized gains (losses) in the period of the change pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (FAS 133). We believe that the most meaningful presentation of these derivatives is to reflect cash inflows or revenue as net premiums earned, and to record estimates of the average modeled value of future cash outflows as incurred losses. For GMIB reinsurance, we recognize benefit reserves consistent with AICPA Statement of Position 03 1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Non traditional Long duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts (SOP 03 1). Changes in this reserve are included in life underwriting income. The incremental difference between fair value and SOP 03 1 benefit reserves is reflected in other assets or other liabilities in the balance sheet and related changes in fair value are reflected in net realized gains (losses) in the consolidated statement of operations. We generally hold these derivative con 47 Table of Contents tracts to maturity. Where we hold a derivative to maturity, the cumulative gains and losses will net to zero. Refer to Note 2j) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for further description of this product and related accounting treatment. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates and equity indices on the fair value of GMIBs, and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. The fair value of GMIB reinsurance is estimated using an internal valuation model which includes the use of management estimates and current market information. All of our treaties contain claim limits, which are factored into the valuation model. The fair value depends on a number of factors, including changes in interest rates, changes in equity markets, changes in market volatility, changes in policyholder behavior, and changes in policyholder mortality. The model and related assumptions are continuously re evaluated by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon improvements in modeling techniques and availability of more timely market information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the assumptions used in the valuation models to determine the fair value of these derivative products, actual experience may differ from the estimates reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements, and the differences may be material. The two most significant policyholder behavior assumptions include lapse rates and annuitization rates using the guaranteed benefit (GMIB annuitization rate). Assumptions regarding lapse rates and GMIB annuitization rates differ by treaty but the underlying methodology to determine rates applied to each treaty is comparable. The assumptions regarding lapse and GMIB annuitization rates determined for each treaty are based on a dynamic calculation that uses several underlying factors. The effect of changes in key market factors on assumed lapse and annuitization rates is principally based on historical experience for variable annuity contracts as well as considerable judgment, particularly for newer benefits with limited historical experience. A lapse rate is the percentage of in force policies surrendered in a given calendar year. All else equal, as lapse rates increase, ultimate claim payments will decrease. The GMIB annuitization rate is the percentage of policies for which the customer will elect to annuitize using the guaranteed benefit provided under the GMIB. All else equal, as GMIB annuitization rates increase, ultimate claim payments will increase, subject to treaty claim limits. Key factors affecting the lapse rate assumption include investment performance and policy duration. We generally assume that lapse rates increase with policy duration with a significant increase in rates after the end of the surrender charge period. As investment performance of underlying fund investments declines, and guarantees become more valuable, lapse rates are anticipated to decrease thereby increasing the expected value of claims on minimum guarantees and thus benefit reserves and the incremental fair value liability. Key factors affecting the GMIB annuitization rate include investment performance and interest rates after the GMIB waiting period. As investment performance of underlying fund investments declines, the monthly income available to a policyholder who annuitizes their account value falls; this makes the GMIB more valuable. As the GMIB becomes more valuable, our modeling assumes that annuitization rates will increase, resulting in higher benefit reserves and fair value liability. The same is true in an environment where long term interest rates are decreasing. Net realized losses for 2007 included $185 million for GMIB reinsurance, compared with $nil in 2006 and net realized gains of $18 million in 2005, excluding changes in the fair value of specific derivative instruments held to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. These derivatives do not receive hedge accounting treatment. Refer to Net Realized Gains (Losses) for more information. Goodwill Goodwill, which represents the excess of the cost of our acquisitions over the fair value of net assets we acquired, was $2.7 billion at December 31, 2007. The ACE INA acquisition resulted in approximately 80 percent of this balance. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to a periodic evaluation of impairment. It is our policy to test goodwill as well as other intangible assets for impairments on an annual basis. The impairment tests in 2007, in the aggregate, show a fair value in excess of the carrying value. Goodwill is assigned to applicable reporting units of acquired entities at acquisition. The most significant reporting units are the domestic and international divisions of ACE INA acquired in 1999; ACE Tempest Res catastrophe businesses acquired in 1996 and 1998; and Tarquin Limited acquired in 1998. There are other reporting units that resulted from smaller acquisitions that are also assessed annually. In our impairment tests, to estimate the fair value of a reporting unit, we principally use both an earnings model, which considers forecasted earnings and other financial ratios of the reporting unit as well as relevant financial data of comparable companies to the reporting unit such as the relationship of price to earnings for recent transactions and market valuations of publicly traded companies, and an analysis of the present value of estimated net cash flows. We must assess whether the current fair value of our operating units is at least equal to the fair value used in the determination of goodwill. In doing this, we make assumptions and estimates about the profitability attributable to our operat 48 Table of Contents ing segments, as this is important in assessing whether an impairment has occurred. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates made in assessing the fair value of acquired entities change, goodwill could be materially adjusted. This would cause us to write down the carrying value of goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period the charge is taken. Risk transfer In the ordinary course of business, we both purchase (or cede) and sell (or assume) P&C reinsurance protection. In 2002, as a matter of policy, we discontinued the purchase of all finite reinsurance contracts. For both ceded and assumed reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met in order to use reinsurance accounting, principally resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract as premiums and losses. If risk transfer requirements are not met, a contract is to be accounted for as a deposit, typically resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. We also apply similar risk transfer requirements to determine whether certain commercial insurance contracts should be accounted for as insurance or a deposit. Contracts that include fixed premium (i.e., premium not subject to adjustment based on loss experience under the contract) for fixed coverage generally transfer risk and do not require judgment. Reinsurance and insurance contracts that include both significant risk sharing provisions, such as adjustments to premiums or loss coverage based on loss experience, and relatively low policy limits as evidenced by a high proportion of maximum premium assessments to loss limits, can require considerable judgment to determine whether or not risk transfer requirements are met. For such contracts, often referred to as finite or structured products, we require that risk transfer be specifically assessed for each contract by developing expected cash flow analyses at contract inception. To support risk transfer, the cash flow analyses must support the fact that a significant loss is reasonably possible, such as a scenario in which the ratio of the net present value of losses divided by the net present value of premiums equals or exceeds 110 percent. For purposes of cash flow analyses, we generally use a risk free rate of return consistent with the expected average duration of loss payments. In addition, to support insurance risk, we must prove the reinsurers risk of loss varies with that of the reinsured and or support various scenarios under which the assuming entity can recognize a significant loss. To ensure risk transfer requirements are routinely assessed, quantitative risk transfer analyses and memoranda supporting risk transfer are developed by underwriters for all structured products. We have established protocols for structured products that include criteria triggering an accounting review of the contract prior to quoting. If any criterion is triggered, a contract must be reviewed by a committee established by each of our operating segments with reporting oversight, including peer review, from our global Structured Transaction Review Committee. With respect to ceded reinsurance, we entered into a few multi year excess of loss retrospectively rated contracts, principally in 2002, some of which remain in force. These contracts principally provide severity protection for specific product divisions. Because traditional one year reinsurance coverage had become relatively costly, these contracts were generally entered into to secure a more cost effective reinsurance program. All of these contracts transferred risk and have been accounted for as reinsurance. In addition, we maintain a few aggregate excess of loss reinsurance contracts that were principally entered into prior to 2003, such as the National Indemnity Company (NICO) contracts referred to in the section entitled, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities. Subsequent to the ACE INA acquisition, we have not purchased any retroactive ceded reinsurance contracts. With respect to assumed reinsurance and insurance contracts, products giving rise to judgments regarding risk transfer were primarily sold by our financial solutions business. Although we have ceased writing financial solutions business, several contracts remain in force and principally include multi year retrospectively rated contracts and loss portfolio transfers. Because transfer of insurance risk is generally a primary client motivation for purchasing these products, relatively few P&C insurance and reinsurance contracts have historically been written for which we concluded that risk transfer criteria had not been met. For certain insurance contracts that have been reported as deposits, the insured desired to self insure a risk but was required, legally or otherwise, to purchase insurance so that claimants would be protected by a licensed insurance company in the event of non payment from the insured. A significant portion of ACE Tempest Re USAs business is written through quota share treaties (approximately $461 million of net premiums earned in 2007, comprised of $324 million of first dollar quota share treaties and $137 million of excess quota share treaties), some of which are categorized as structured products. Structured quota share treaties typically contain relatively low aggregate policy limits, a feature that reduces loss coverage in some manner and a profit sharing provision. Accounting standard setters for both GAAP and statutory reporting have undertaken projects to re evaluate risk transfer guidance, including accounting models that could ultimately require the bifurcation of structured quota share treaties into 49 Table of Contents insurance and financing elements, and perhaps other quota share contracts not currently categorized as structured, into a reinsurance and financing component. New guidance in this area has the potential to have a significant impact on the amount of premiums and losses recognized under these contracts but we expect little impact to our net income. Consolidated Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Net premiums written $ 11,979 $ 12,030 $ 11,792 Net premiums earned 12,297 11,825 11,748 Net investment income 1,918 1,601 1,264 Net realized gains (losses) (61 ) (98 ) 76 Total revenues $ 14,154 $ 13,328 $ 13,088 Losses and loss expenses 7,351 7,070 8,571 Life and annuity benefits 168 123 143 Policy acquisition costs 1,771 1,715 1,663 Administrative expenses 1,455 1,456 1,261 Interest expense 175 176 174 Other (income) expense 81 (35 ) (25 ) Total expenses 11,001 10,505 11,787 Income before income tax 3,153 2,823 1,301 Income tax expense 575 522 273 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 4 Net income $ 2,578 $ 2,305 $ 1,028 Net premiums written, which reflect the premiums we retain after purchasing reinsurance protection, decreased slightly in 2007, compared with 2006. During 2007, we experienced competitive conditions, particularly in our Global Reinsurance segment, offset by favorable foreign exchange impact and growth in our international A&H business. Our ACE USA operations reported modest growth driven primarily by specialty casualty and energy lines as well as professional risk and a large assumed portfolio contract. ACE Westchester Specialty (ACE Westchester) reported a decrease in production due to very competitive conditions on P&C lines. Net premiums written increased two percent in 2006, compared with 2005. The increase was primarily driven by production gains in many of ACE USAs and ACE Westchesters businesses, A&H growth at ACE International, and increased rates on short tail lines at ACE Global Markets. These increases were partially offset by a decline in international financial solutions business, which we have ceased writing. The 2005 year was impacted by net catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, which reduced net premiums written and earned by $68 million. The following table provides a consolidated breakdown of net premiums earned by line of business for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 % of total 2006 % of total 2005 % of total Property and all other $ 3,787 31% $ 3,618 31% $ 3,560 30% Casualty 6,464 52% 6,506 55% 6,698 57% Personal accident (A&H) 1,678 14% 1,427 12% 1,242 11% Total P&C 11,929 97% 11,551 98% 11,500 98% Life 368 3% 274 2% 248 2% Net premiums earned $ 12,297 100% $ 11,825 100% $ 11,748 100% Net premiums earned reflect the portion of net premiums written that were recorded as revenues for the period as the exposure period expires. Net premiums earned increased four percent in 2007, compared with 2006. This increase was primarily related to increased production at ACE USA and ACE International as well as our life operations, partially offset by decreased production at our Global Reinsurance segment. Net premiums earned were stable in 2006, compared with 2005 as increases in A&H were offset by significant decreases in financial solutions business, which we have ceased writing. 50 Table of Contents Net investment income increased 20 percent in 2007, compared with 2006, and 27 percent in 2006, compared with 2005. These increases were primarily due to investment of positive operating cash flows and net proceeds from our approximately $1.5 billion public offering in October 2005, which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. In evaluating our P&C business, we use the combined ratio, the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. We calculate these ratios by dividing the respective expense amounts by net premiums earned. We do not calculate these ratios for the life business as we do not use these measures to monitor or manage that business. The combined ratio is determined by adding the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. A combined ratio under 100 percent indicates underwriting income and a combined ratio exceeding 100 percent indicates underwriting losses. The following table shows our consolidated loss and loss expense ratio, policy acquisition ratio, administrative expense ratio, and combined ratio for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. 2007 2006 2005 Loss and loss expense ratio 61.6% 61.2% 74.5% Policy acquisition cost ratio 14.5% 14.6% 14.2% Administrative expense ratio 11.8% 12.3% 10.8% Combined ratio 87.9% 88.1% 99.5% The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. 2007 2006 2005 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 61.6 % 61.2 % 74.5 % Catastrophe losses (1.3)% (0.1)% (11.4)% Prior period development 1.8 % 0.1 % (0.7)% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 62.1 % 61.2 % 62.4 % We recorded $159 million in net catastrophe losses in 2007, compared with $17 million in 2006, and $1.4 billion in 2005. For 2007, our catastrophe losses were primarily related to floods in the U.K., Australia, and the U.S. and also include the impact of European windstorm Kyrill. In 2005, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. Prior period development arises from changes to loss estimates recognized in the current year that relate to loss reserves first reported in previous calendar years and excludes the effect of losses from the development of earned premium from previous accident years. We experienced $217 million of net favorable prior period development in 2007. This compares with $12 million of net favorable prior period development in 2006, and $86 million of net adverse prior period development in 2005. The favorable prior period development in 2007 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements; refer to Prior Period Development. Our loss and loss expense ratio was negatively impacted by an increase in current year accident losses, reflecting current market conditions. Our policy acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes, underwriting, and other costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of premium. Administrative expenses include all other operating costs. For 2007, our policy acquisition cost ratio was stable. A&H business typically incurs higher acquisition costs relative to other lines, and therefore, our growth in this area has had a negative impact on our policy acquisition cost ratio. This increasing trend on our policy acquisition costs was offset in 2007 by reduced ceding commission at ACE Tempest Re USA. Our policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2006 primarily due to changes in business mix and the favorable impact in 2005 of net premiums earned on multi year contracts in connection with the significant 2005 catastrophe losses which, generally, did not incur acquisition costs. Our administrative expenses in 2007 were stable compared with 2006, despite an adverse impact of foreign exchange. We continue to focus on reducing expenses where possible. Our administrative expense ratio decreased in 2007, compared with 2006, due to the increase in net premiums earned. For 2006, the administrative expense ratio increased, compared with 2005, primarily due to global expansion, including staff additions and infrastructure enhancements at ACE USA, ACE Westchester, ACE Life, and ACE International. Administrative expenses in 2006 also include $80 million related to the settlement with certain governmental agencies from their investigations of various insurance industry practices. For 2005, administrative 51 Table of Contents expenses were reduced by the release of an accrual in Insurance North American and higher net profits from ACE USAs ESIS (claims services) operation, which we include in administrative expenses. Our effective income tax rate, which we calculate as income tax expense divided by income before income tax, is dependent upon the mix of earnings from different jurisdictions with various tax rates. A change in the geographic mix of earnings would change the effective income tax rate. Our effective tax rate on net income was 18 percent in 2007 and 2006, compared with 21 percent in 2005. We decreased our liability for unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $39 million in 2007 due primarily to a change in tax regulation. In 2005, a substantial portion of our catastrophe losses occurred in jurisdictions where we do not incur income tax, causing our income to decline without a commensurate decrease in income tax expense. The growth in our net income in 2007, compared with 2006, is reflective of the strength, diversity, and balance in our organization. All of our segments contributed to our net income. Prior Period Development The favorable prior period development of $217 million during the year ended December 31, 2007, was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. In the sections following the table below, significant prior period movements within each reporting segment are discussed in more detail. The following table summarizes prior period development, (favorable) and adverse, by segment and claim tail attribute for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. Note that short tail as used here includes the previously reported categories of short tail and specialty. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) Long tail Short tail Total % of netunpaidreserves* 2007 Insurance North American $ 39 $ (30 ) $ 9 0.1% Insurance Overseas General (53 ) (139 ) (192 ) 3.2% Global Reinsurance 13 (47 ) (34 ) 1.3% Total $ (1 ) $ (216 ) $ (217 ) 1.0% 2006 Insurance North American $ 60 $ 5 $ 65 0.5% Insurance Overseas General 20 (92 ) (72 ) 1.3% Global Reinsurance (3 ) (2 ) (5 ) 0.2% Total $ 77 $ (89 ) $ (12 ) 0.1% * Calculated based on the segment beginning of period net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves. Insurance North American Insurance North American incurred net adverse prior period development of $9 million in 2007, representing 0.1 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. The net prior period development in 2007 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net adverse development of $39 million on long tail business including: Adverse development of $21 million due to an adjustment made in 2006 relating to IBNR reserves on commuted ceded reinsurance contracts, identified and resolved during 2007; Adverse development of $33 million on two related specialty claims from a runoff financial guaranty program affecting accident year 2000 due to adverse judicial rulings rendered during the 2007 calendar year; Adverse development on our estimates of future allocated claims expense on two separate portfolios of workers compensation insurance totaling $28 million. This change in estimate affected our national accounts workers compensation business (principally accident years 2002 2004) and a runoff portfolio of workers compensation servicing carrier business (covering accident years 1996 and prior). For the national accounts business, the change was principally in our high deductible portfolio. Based on analyses completed during 2007, we have increased our tail factor for allocated loss adjustment expenses (ALAE) as well as our ratios of ALAE to loss used in our projection methodologies. Small movements in these assumptions produce a leveraged increase in the loss estimates across a number of accident years; Adverse development on our estimates of ultimate loss on a collection of runoff professional liability and medical programs totaling $20 million. These increases were the direct result of a review of all open claims that was completed 52 Table of Contents during 2007. This claims review identified a number of cases where adverse change in facts and circumstances led to a significant deviation from our estimates of ultimate claim value; Favorable development in our estimate of ultimate loss and ALAE of $18 million in our surety business. This improvement was heavily concentrated in the 2005 and 2006 accident years. In the 2007 calendar year, the level of late reported claims and development on known claims for this portfolio was significantly below historical levels for this line of business resulting in a reduction in all loss projection methods; Favorable development on our national accounts casualty business, primarily general liability, of $21 million for the 2002 2004 accident years. Development on these portfolios continues to be favorable relative to the original assumptions used to price the products. Actual paid and incurred loss activity in 2007 has been lower than assumed in our prior projections and we have modified our estimates accordingly; and Favorable development of $25 million on our foreign casualty portfolio for the 2004 and prior accident years. This is partly due to an adjustment for a reserve established in 2006 for a single large claim, but also due to low levels of reported and paid loss activity on our foreign captive business. This particular line has net exposure on a per occurrence basis excess of high deductibles/self insured retentions and an aggregate basis excess of an aggregate attachment point. Expected loss emergence patterns used in our 2006 review projected higher loss development for the 2004 and prior accident years than emerged during 2007 prompting a reduction in our projection of ultimate losses. Net favorable development of $30 million on short tail business including: Adverse development totaling $115 million relating to increases in our estimates of loss for the 2005 storms primarily in our ACE Westchester operation but also some modest development in our offshore energy business. This development was due primarily to a relatively small number of losses on excess policies with large exposed limits. These losses reached settlement during 2007 for amounts in excess of our case reserves prompting adjustments to our projections of ultimate losses. The claims handling associated with the 2005 hurricanes has involved complex and unique causation and coverage issues. These issues continue to be present and may have a further material adverse impact on our financial results; Favorable development of $33 million on ACE Westchester crop/hail business. This was the direct effect of recording the final settlement of the 2006 pool year from the bordereau received during the 2007 calendar year; Favorable development of $52 million in our workers compensation business due to the absence of multi claimant events such as industrial accidents for the 2006 accident year. The majority of our exposure for these perils falls under our national accounts high deductible line of business. We evaluate this exposure annually after the accident year has closed allowing for the late identification of significant losses. Our review in 2007 of potential 2006 accident year losses has led to a decrease in our estimate of the required provision for these claims; Favorable development in our estimates of ultimate losses for first party lines including property and auto physical damage in our ACE Canada operations totaling $18 million, affecting primarily the 2006 accident year. Incurred loss development during calendar year 2007 on the 2006 accident year was lower than historical averages which formed the basis for our prior projections. Given the relatively short reporting pattern for this business, the actual loss emergence was assigned credibility and the ultimate loss estimates revised accordingly; Favorable development in our estimates of ultimate loss of $19 million on our Canadian A&H portfolio. We have limited historical experience for this product line. Losses were originally recorded using an expected loss ratio method. Actual loss emergence in calendar year 2007 has proven to be more favorable than our prior projections. Given the relatively short reporting pattern for this business, the actual loss emergence was assigned credibility and the ultimate loss estimates revised accordingly; and Favorable development in our estimates of ultimate loss of $28 million on short tail, non catastrophe losses in our ACE Westchester property and inland marine product lines. Attritional incurred loss activity on the 2005 and 2006 accident years in the 2007 calendar year was lower than historical averages which formed the basis for our prior projections. Insurance North American incurred net adverse prior period development of $65 million in 2006, representing 0.5 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. The net prior period development in 2006 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net adverse development of $60 million on long tail business including: Adverse development of $57 million on a small number of run off portfolios in the U.S. with predominantly middle market workers compensation exposures from accident years 1996 and prior. In 2006, we lengthened the selected tail factors due to an increasing trend observed in industry statistics published in 2006, and a modest deterioration in our claims experience related to the medical cost component of individual claims that emerged since the prior study; 53 Table of Contents Adverse development of $42 million on the ACE Bermuda D&O book from report years 2000 2002 driven by case estimate increases on large claims following significant events in the mediation process during 2006, including increased plaintiff demands, settlement conferences, and court proceedings; Favorable development of $29 million on the ACE Bermuda excess liability book driven by the settlement of a single claim in 2006 from the 1991 report year on terms more favorable than the assumptions used to establish the reserve. The reserve was released following receipt of the rulings terms in 2006; and Favorable development of $13 million on large national account workers compensation business written by ACE USA. We observed reported claims frequency in 2006 lower than anticipated. Net adverse development of $5 million on short tail business including: Adverse development of $182 million related to property claims arising from 2005 catastrophes. The majority of this increase is related to property losses from Hurricane Katrina. The nature and extent of Hurricane Katrina resulted in some claims that increased over previously reported damage estimates. Factors leading to these increases included demand surge and some impact to previously unimpaired layers of excess coverage; Favorable development on ACE Westchesters crop/hail business of $60 million due to recording of the final settlement of the 2005 crop results. In line with normal practice for this type of business, ACE did not receive final loss reports for the 2005 year until 2006. Therefore, the prior period movements were direct results of the loss amounts within the initial and final loss reports issued during the first and second quarters of 2006 being lower than our preliminary estimates; Favorable development of $51 million on ACE USAs workers compensation short tail catastrophe and industrial accident exposure arising from 2004 and 2005 accident years, due to favorable trends in reported loss development. For the 2004 and 2005 accident years, claims arising from industrial or travel accidents trended favorably in 2006 relative to how earlier accident years had developed at the same period of maturity; and Net favorable development of $46 million related to the 2004 and 2005 accident years. This favorable activity was primarily in our aerospace and surety lines of business. Both of these businesses are relatively new, in that as recently as 2002 our premium volume was minimal and we have grown these businesses significantly since then. During 2006, we concluded the loss experience had become sufficiently credible, due to the degree of elapsed time, for us to begin to consider loss based projection methods which resulted in favorable prior loss development of $14 million and $18 million, respectively. We experienced $103 million of net adverse prior period development in 2005, representing 0.9 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2004. Insurance Overseas General Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $192 million in 2007, representing 3.2 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. The net prior period development for 2007 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $53 million on long tail lines of business including: Net favorable development of $33 million in the 2006 and prior accident years for Insurance Overseas General long tail lines, primarily casualty and financial lines. This favorable prior period development was in response to the annual review of long tail lines completed during the year. There was $23 million of net favorable development for Insurance Overseas General on the 2003 2005 accident years driven by reductions in loss development method indications and greater credibility being assigned to Bornhuetter Ferguson projections versus expected loss ratio methods. This shift in credibility weighting between reserving methods is common practice and allows for greater recognition of actual loss emergence as accident years mature; Net favorable development of $20 million as a result of an update of the detailed annual evaluation of the excess exposures in Insurance Overseas General which comprised strengthening of $89 million in accident years 2003 and prior, and $45 million in accident year 2006, and a release of $154 million in accident years 2004 and 2005; and Adverse development of $11 million in ACE Global Markets long tail professional lines, primarily in years of account 1999 2003. This adverse prior period development was largely in response to claims department recommendations on three accounts based on updated information received during the course of claim settlement in calendar year 2007. Net favorable development of $139 million on short tail lines of business including: Favorable development of $84 million on short tail property and fire lines primarily in the 2006 accident year in ACE International. The favorable development during the past year was due in large part to shifting credibility away from Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and relying more heavily on loss development patterns as case incurred loss became a more accurate predictor of ultimate loss. This shift in credibility tended to reduce indicated ultimate losses since, with hindsight, our initial expected loss ratios have proven to be conservative; 54 Table of Contents Favorable development of $13 million on 2005 hurricane losses in ACE Global Markets. This adjustment was due to the fact that after 24 months of development, it was concluded that there would be no new reported claims; Favorable development of $30 million on specialty A&H primarily in the 2005 and 2006 accident years in ACE Europe. This favorable prior period development followed the completion of the regular reserve review and was driven by better than expected loss experience relative to prior reserving assumptions. The favorable experience arose in direct marketing A&H businesses across several countries with no particular underlying claim or loss emergence trend identifiable; Favorable development of $28 million on specialty marine, primarily in the 2005 and 2006 accident years in both ACE International and ACE Global Markets. This favorable prior period development was largely in response to claims department recommendations on several large claims based on updated information received during claim settlement in calendar year 2007; and Adverse development of $9 million on specialty consumer lines, primarily in accident year 2006. This adverse development was primarily driven by further deterioration of ACE Internationals homeowners warranty business in Norway. The indicated ultimate loss was revised upwards in 2007 in response to several key claim metrics underlying the reserve estimate: number of reopened claims, loss adjustment expenses, and frequency and severity of late reported claims. Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $72 million in 2006, representing 1.3 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. The net prior period development for 2006 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net adverse development of $20 million on long tail lines of business including: Adverse development of $29 million on the ACE Global Markets professional lines portfolio. In 2006, we continued to experience greater than expected reported loss activity related to years of account 2003 and prior, largely from claims related to corporate failures, allegations of management misconduct, and accounting irregularities. As a result, we have increased the expected ultimate loss ratios for these years in response to updated claim and legal information received in 2006 on specific cases; Adverse development of $14 million on asbestos liabilities, excluding a provision for uncollectible reinsurance, resulting from the completion of our annual analysis of our international A&E exposures by a joint legal and actuarial team during the fourth quarter of 2006; and Net favorable development of $23 million on ACE Internationals non A&E exposures from the 2002 2004 accident years. This movement was driven by continued favorable loss emergence, most notably on the U.K. casualty and Asia Pacific financial lines portfolios, as a result of favorable severity trends in 2006. Net favorable development of $92 million on short tail lines of business including: Net favorable development of $111 million on short tail property and fire lines, mainly related to accident years 2004 and 2005. The favorable development in 2006 was driven by lower than anticipated frequency and severity of late reported property claims that emerged during 2006, and favorable development and settlement of several previously reported large losses; and Net adverse development of $19 million on other short tail business including aviation, A&H, marine, consumer lines, and political risk. Most of the adverse development was driven by higher than expected loss activity in 2006 at ACE Global Markets, primarily on accident years 2002 and prior. We experienced $5 million of net adverse development in 2005, representing 0.1 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2004. Global Reinsurance Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $34 million in 2007, representing 1.3 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. The net prior period development recorded in 2007 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. The largest adverse movement was related to long tail lines of business for ACE Tempest Re USA of $13 million mainly as a result of higher than expected claims reported over the last few quarters primarily in the treaty years 2000 2005 for casualty and workers compensation business on several accounts. Favorable movements of $47 million largely related to claim closings on short tail property and other short tail lines of business primarily from treaty years 2005 and prior were recorded in 2007. Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $5 million in 2006, representing 0.2 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. The net prior period development in 2006 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. The largest adverse movement was related to catastrophes from the 2005 accident year of $29 million as a result of increased loss reports from cedants. Favorable movements 55 Table of Contents largely related to property business from accident years prior to 2005 and a number of small movements on different specialty portfolios. We experienced $22 million of net favorable prior period development in 2005, representing 1.4 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2004. Segment Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 The discussions that follow include tables, which show our segment operating results for the three years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. In presenting our segment operating results, we have discussed our performance with reference to underwriting results, which is a non GAAP measure. We consider this measure, which may be defined differently by other companies, to be important in understanding our overall results of operations. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other (income) expense, interest expense, income tax expense, and net realized gains (losses). We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance and reinsurance businesses. Underwriting results should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. We operate through the following business segments: Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, Global Reinsurance, and Life Insurance and Reinsurance. For more information on each of our segments refer to Segment Information, under Item 1.  Insurance North American The Insurance North American segment comprises our P&C operations in the U.S., Canada, and Bermuda. This segment includes the operations of ACE USA (including ACE Canada), ACE Westchester, ACE Bermuda, and various run off operations, including Brandywine Holdings Corporation (Brandywine Holdings). (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Net premiums written $ 5,833 $ 5,940 $ 5,803 Net premiums earned 6,007 5,719 5,730 Losses and loss expenses 4,269 4,026 4,577 Policy acquisition costs 515 530 503 Administrative expenses 530 502 427 Underwriting income 693 661 223 Net investment income 1,034 876 698 Net realized gains (losses) 125 (83 ) 15 Other (income) expense 11 (2 ) 18 Income tax expense 468 352 235 Net income $ 1,373 $ 1,104 $ 683 Loss and loss expense ratio 71.1% 70.4% 79.9% Policy acquisition cost ratio 8.6% 9.2% 8.8% Administrative expense ratio 8.8% 8.8% 7.4% Combined ratio 88.5% 88.4% 96.1% Net premiums written for the Insurance North American segment decreased two percent in 2007, compared with 2006. This decrease was primarily due to a decline in new and renewal business at ACE Westchester, our wholesale operation, which experienced very competitive conditions on P&C lines. ACE Westchester also reported a decrease in retention of gross premiums written, primarily due to changes in business mix. ACE Bermuda reported a decrease in net premiums written primarily due to a decline in assumed loss portfolio business as well as excess liability and professional lines, partially offset by an increase in political risk writings in 2007, compared with 2006. ACE USA, this segments U.S. based retail division, reported modest growth driven primarily by specialty casualty and energy lines as well as professional risk and a large assumed portfolio contract. These increases were partially offset by declines in production in ACE USAs large account risk management unit and the curtailment of middle market workers compensation writings in response to unfavorable market 56 Table of Contents conditions. Net premiums written increased two percent in 2006 compared with 2005. This increase was primarily driven by ACE USA which reported growth across many lines, including commercial property, energy, aerospace, and financial solutions. ACE Bermuda reported a significant decline in its financial solutions business as net premiums written in 2005 were bolstered by catastrophe related reinstatement premiums on multi year contracts. ACE Westchester reported modest growth driven primarily by primary and excess casualty, inland marine, environmental, and professional risk business. The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance North Americans net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 % of total 2006 % of total 2005 % of total Line of Business Property and all other $ 1,462 24% $ 1,289 22% $ 1,249 22% Casualty 4,298 72% 4,228 74% 4,299 75% Personal accident (A&H) 247 4% 202 4% 182 3% Net premiums earned $ 6,007 100% $ 5,719 100% $ 5,730 100% Entity/Division ACE USA $ 4,196 70% $ 3,795 66% $ 3,666 64% ACE Westchester 1,420 24% 1,465 26% 1,385 24% ACE Bermuda 391 6% 459 8% 679 12% Net premiums earned $ 6,007 100% $ 5,719 100% $ 5,730 100% ACE USAs net premiums earned increased 11 percent in 2007, compared with 2006. The increase was primarily driven by the assumed loss portfolio contract noted above, as well as new business in the energy unit, and growth in specialty casualty lines, including professional risk, umbrella excess, custom casualty, and environmental. ACE USAs curtailment of middle market workers compensation business partially offset these increases. ACE USAs net premiums earned increased four percent in 2006, compared with 2005. This increase was primarily driven by growth in specialty casualty and commercial property lines. ACE Westchesters net premiums earned decreased three percent in 2007, compared with 2006. This decrease was primarily due to lower production in casualty lines resulting from more competitive market conditions, partially offset by increased crop/hail business, which benefited from higher commodity prices. ACE Westchesters net premiums earned increased six percent in 2006, compared with 2005. This increase was primarily driven by increased primary and excess casualty, inland marine, environmental and professional risk business and also the negative impact of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums on the 2005 year. ACE Bermudas net premiums earned decreased 15 percent in 2007, compared with 2006. The decrease was primarily due to our curtailment of financial solutions business in 2006. ACE Bermudas net premiums earned decreased 32 percent in 2006, compared with 2005. This decrease was a result of the decline in financial solutions business, including the positive impact on the prior year of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums on multi year contracts. Insurance North Americans loss and loss expense ratio increased in 2007, compared with 2006. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. 2007 2006 2005 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 71.1 % 70.4 % 79.9 % Catastrophe losses (0.3)% (8.9)% Prior period development (0.2)% (1.2)% (1.8)% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 70.6 % 69.2 % 69.2 % Insurance North Americans catastrophe losses were $16 million in 2007, compared with $nil in 2006, and $557 million in 2005. Current year catastrophe losses were primarily associated with floods in the U.S. Catastrophe losses in 2005 were significant and included losses from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. Insurance North American incurred net adverse prior period development of $9 million in 2007. This compares with net adverse prior period development of $65 million and $103 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. Insurance North 57 Table of Contents Americans loss and loss expense ratio was negatively impacted by an increase in current year accident losses, reflecting current market conditions. Insurance North Americans policy acquisition cost ratio decreased in 2007 compared with 2006. The decrease was primarily related to reductions in the policy acquisition cost ratio at ACE USA and ACE Westchester. For ACE USA, the decline reflects higher ceding commissions as well as lower premium taxes due to reassessment of obligations for premium based assessments and guaranty funds. In addition, the assumed loss portfolio transfer contract, noted above, incurred low acquisition costs, which is typical for these transactions. For ACE Westchester, the decline in the policy acquisition cost ratio was primarily due to lower profit share commissions on crop business in 2007, compared with 2006. Insurance North Americans policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2006, compared with 2005, which benefited from premiums earned on multi year contracts which generally do not incur acquisition costs. Administrative expenses increased in 2007, compared with 2006. This increase was primarily due to increased staffing costs at ACE USA, as well as a $15 million decrease in net profits for ACE USAs ESIS operation (third party claim services), which we include in administrative expenses. The administrative expense ratio was stable in 2007, compared with 2006, as net premiums earned increased. Administrative expenses increased in 2006, compared with 2005 as the 2005 year was favorably impacted by the reduction of $42 million in various accruals determined not to be needed. Additionally, net profits for ACE USAs ESIS operation were $14 million lower in 2006, compared with 2005. Insurance Overseas General The Insurance Overseas General segment consists of ACE International, which comprises our network of indigenous insurance operations, and the wholesale insurance operations of ACE Global Markets, our London market underwriting unit including Lloyds Syndicate 2488. This segment has four regions of operations: ACE European Group, which is comprised of ACE Europe and ACE Global Markets branded business, ACE Asia Pacific, ACE Far East, and ACE Latin America. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Net premiums written $ 4,568 $ 4,266 $ 4,195 Net premiums earned 4,623 4,321 4,239 Losses and loss expenses 2,420 2,259 2,583 Policy acquisition costs 963 856 836 Administrative expenses 669 609 566 Underwriting income 571 597 254 Net investment income 450 370 319 Net realized gains (losses) (69 ) (16 ) 51 Other (income) expense (20 ) 10 16 Income tax expense 183 206 107 Net income $ 789 $ 735 $ 501 Loss and loss expense ratio 52.4% 52.3% 60.9% Policy acquisition cost ratio 20.8% 19.8% 19.7% Administrative expense ratio 14.5% 14.1% 13.4% Combined ratio 87.7% 86.2% 94.0% Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written increased seven percent in 2007, compared with 2006. Foreign exchange impact on ACE Internationals results accounted for most of this increase as both the euro and the pound sterling strengthened significantly relative to the U.S. dollar during 2007 (refer to the table below for impact of foreign exchange on net premiums written and earned). ACE International reported growth in A&H business in virtually all of its regions of operation, particularly in Latin America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. On the P&C side, growth in continental Europe was more than offset by a decline in net premiums written in the U.K. and Asia Pacific due to competitive conditions for new accounts and adverse pricing on renewal business. ACE Global Markets reported increased reinsurance costs combined with rate decreases due to competition in aviation, property, and financial lines, partially offset by increased production in energy, political risk, and A&H lines. Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written increased two percent in 2006, compared with 2005. The 2005 year was impacted by catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, which reduced net premiums written and earned by $38 million, primarily at ACE Global Markets. 58 Table of Contents The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 %of total 2006 % of total 2005 % of total Line of Business Property and all other $ 1,697 37% $ 1,617 37% $ 1,609 38% Casualty 1,495 32% 1,479 34% 1,570 37% Personal accident (A&H) 1,431 31% 1,225 29% 1,060 25% Net premiums earned $ 4,623 100% $ 4,321 100% $ 4,239 100% Entity/Division ACE Europe $ 1,999 43% $ 1,819 42% $ 1,865 44% ACE Asia Pacific 631 14% 590 14% 545 13% ACE Far East 365 8% 361 8% 378 9% ACE Latin America 633 14% 521 12% 416 10% ACE International 3,628 79% 3,291 76% 3,204 76% ACE Global Markets 995 21% 1,030 24% 1,035 24% Net premiums earned $ 4,623 100% $ 4,321 100% $ 4,239 100% Insurance Overseas General reported a seven percent increase in net premiums earned in 2007, compared with 2006. This increase was primarily driven by a favorable foreign exchange impact on ACE International business. Net premiums earned for this segment increased two percent in 2006, compared with 2005. In 2006, this segment experienced growth in A&H business, offset by weakening market conditions for P&C business and higher reinsurance costs. Additionally, 2005 was impacted by catastrophe related reinstatement premiums of $38 million. ACE Internationals net premiums earned increased 10 percent in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to the impact of foreign exchange. This segment continues to grow its A&H business which has offset weak market conditions for U.K. and Asia Pacific P&C business, and higher reinsurance costs for certain lines. ACE Asia Pacific and ACE Latin America reported increases in net premiums earned primarily driven by solid growth in A&H business. These regions have been successfully utilizing unique and innovative distribution channels to grow their A&H customer base. ACE International reported a three percent increase in net premiums earned in 2006, compared with 2005. This increase was primarily driven by growth of A&H business, partially offset by weakness in P&C lines in the U.K. ACE Global Markets net premiums earned decreased three percent in 2007, compared with 2006. This decrease was primarily due to decreased production, higher reinsurance costs, and changes in business mix, specifically the growth of energy lines which earn over a longer period than other types of business. Net premiums earned for ACE Global Markets were stable in 2006, compared with 2005, as the decrease in catastrophe related reinstatement premiums was offset by higher reinsurance costs in 2006, particularly on aviation, energy, property, and marine lines. Insurance Overseas General conducts business internationally and in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the approximate effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of net premiums written and earned for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. 2007 2006 Net premiums written: Growth in original currency 0.6% 2.7 % Foreign exchange effect 6.5% (1.0)% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 7.1% 1.7 % Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency 0.7% 2.3 % Foreign exchange effect 6.3% (0.4)% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 7.0% 1.9 % 59 Table of Contents The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. 2007 2006 2005 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 52.4 % 52.3 % 60.9 % Catastrophe losses (2.0)% (0.1)% (5.2)% Prior period development 4.2 % 1.7 % (0.1)% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 54.6 % 53.9 % 55.6 % Net catastrophe losses for 2007 were $94 million, compared with $3 million and $201 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In 2005, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. Insurance Overseas General incurred net favorable prior period development of $192 million and $72 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. This compares with net adverse prior period development of $5 million in 2005. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. Insurance Overseas Generals policy acquisition cost ratio has increased over the last three years primarily due to changes in business mix at ACE International, specifically the growth of A&H business, which typically attracts higher commission rates than other business. The increasing impact on policy acquisition costs from A&H growth was partially offset by increased ceding commissions on political, financial, and energy lines at ACE Global Markets. Insurance Overseas Generals administrative expense ratio increased in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to the impact of foreign exchange. Additionally, ACE International reported increased costs associated with its entrance into emerging markets, specifically Eastern Europe and the Middle East, and in support of A&H growth at Asia Pacific. The increase in 2006, compared with 2005, was primarily due to investments in global expansion including staff additions and infrastructure enhancements at ACE International. Global Reinsurance The Global Reinsurance segment represents ACEs reinsurance operations, comprising ACE Tempest Re Bermuda, ACE Tempest Re USA, ACE Tempest Re Europe, and ACE Tempest Re Canada. Global Reinsurance markets its reinsurance products worldwide under the ACE Tempest Re brand name and provides a broad range of coverages to a diverse array of primary P&C companies. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Net premiums written $ 1,197 $ 1,550 $ 1,546 Net premiums earned 1,299 1,511 1,531 Losses and loss expenses 664 784 1,402 Policy acquisition costs 248 303 300 Administrative expenses 64 62 60 Underwriting income (loss) 323 362 (231 ) Net investment income 274 221 173 Net realized gains (losses) 21 10 (4 ) Interest expense 3 Other (income) expense 4 8 11 Income tax expense 32 38 11 Net income (loss) $ 582 $ 547 $ (87 ) Loss and loss expense ratio 51.1% 51.8% 91.6% Policy acquisition cost ratio 19.1% 20.1% 19.6% Administrative expense ratio 4.9% 4.1% 3.9% Combined ratio 75.1% 76.0% 115.1% Global Reinsurances net premiums written decreased 23 percent in 2007, compared with 2006. During 2007, Global Reinsurance experienced intense competition across all of its regions of operations, which resulted in our not renewing several 60 Table of Contents large policies, as well as clients increasing their retentions. Net premiums written for the Global Reinsurance segment were stable in 2006 compared with 2005. For 2006, this segment benefited from increased rates on property catastrophe coverages following two years of unprecedented hurricane activity, partially offset by lower casualty rates in Europe, and the cancellation of a large property account in the U.S. The year ended December 31, 2005, was impacted by catastrophe related assumed reinstatement premiums, which increased net premiums written and earned by $46 million. The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Global Reinsurances net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 % of total 2006 % of total 2005 % of total Line of Business Property and all other $ 285 22% $ 354 23% $ 354 23% Casualty 671 52% 799 52% 829 54% Property catastrophe 343 26% 358 25% 348 23% Net premiums earned $ 1,299 100% $ 1,511 100% $ 1,531 100% Entity/Division ACE Tempest Re Bermuda $ 356 27% $ 367 24% $ 349 23% ACE Tempest Re USA 693 53% 872 58% 887 58% ACE Tempest Re Europe 241 19% 272 18% 295 19% ACE Tempest Re Canada 9 1% % % Net premiums earned $ 1,299 100% $ 1,511 100% $ 1,531 100% Global Reinsurances net premiums earned decreased 14 percent in 2007, compared with 2006. This decrease was primarily due to lower 2007 production at ACE Tempest Re Bermuda, ACE Tempest Re USA, and ACE Tempest Re Europe. ACE Tempest Re Canada commenced writing business in 2007. Global Reinsurances net premiums earned decreased one percent in 2006, compared with 2005, primarily due to reduced assumed reinstatement premiums at ACE Tempest Re Bermuda and ACE Tempest Re Europe and the cancellation of a large homeowners account at ACE Tempest Re USA. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. 2007 2006 2005 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 51.1 % 51.8 % 91.6 % Catastrophe losses (3.8)% (0.9)% (37.7)% Prior period development 2.6 % 0.4 % 1.4 % Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 49.9 % 51.3 % 55.3 % Global Reinsurance recorded net catastrophe losses of $49 million in 2007. This compares with net catastrophe losses of $14 million and $601 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In 2005, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. Global Reinsurance incurred net favorable prior period development of $34 million in 2007. This compares with net favorable prior period development of $5 million and $22 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. The remaining decreases to the loss and loss expense ratio in 2006 were primarily due to favorable current accident year experience on property business and changes in business mix. In 2006, there was a greater proportion of property and property catastrophe business and pro rata business, which generally carries a lower loss ratio than excess of loss business. Global Reinsurances policy acquisition cost ratio decreased in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to changes in business mix, and lower ceding commissions at ACE Tempest Re USA. The policy acquisition cost ratio increased for Global Reinsurance in 2006, compared with 2005, primarily due to higher ceding commissions at ACE Tempest Re USA and the impact on the prior year of catastrophe related assumed reinstatement premiums, which do not generate acquisition costs. Administrative expenses have been stable over the last three years. The administrative expense ratio increased over the last three years primarily due to the decrease in net premiums earned. 61 Table of Contents Life Insurance and Reinsurance Life Insurance and Reinsurance includes the operations of ACE Tempest Life Re (ACE Life Re) and ACE International Life (ACE Life). We assess the performance of our life insurance and reinsurance business based on life underwriting income which includes net investment income. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Net premiums written $ 381 $ 274 $ 248 Net premiums earned 368 274 248 Life and annuity benefits 168 123 143 Policy acquisition costs 45 26 24 Administrative expenses 50 35 19 Net investment income 55 42 36 Life underwriting income 160 132 98 Net realized gains (losses) (164 ) (36 ) 19 Other (income) expense 1 Income tax expense (benefit) (8 ) (6 ) (2 ) Net income $ 3 $ 102 $ 119 Life underwriting income increased 21 percent in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to the profitability of the Bermuda based non traditional reinsurance business and improvement in the profitability of run off disability reinsurance business. Additionally, there has been a slight decline in underwriting losses at ACE Life and the U.S. based traditional life reinsurance business due to growth in premiums and investment income during their early development. Net premiums earned overall increased 34 percent in 2007, compared with 2006. Life Insurance and Reinsurances administrative expenses increased primarily due to increased expenses to support business development opportunities at ACE Life and the U.S. based traditional life reinsurance business, which was launched in 2006. Net realized gains (losses) primarily consist of changes in reported liabilities on GMIB reinsurance carried at fair value and, to a lesser extent, sales of invested assets. For 2007, substantially all of the realized loss related to an increase in reported liabilities on GMIB reinsurance resulting from adverse financial market conditions, including a reduction in long term interest rates, and an increase in implied volatility for both equities and interest rates. Life underwriting income increased 35 percent in 2006, compared with 2005. Net premiums earned increased 10 percent primarily due to growth in variable annuity business at ACE Life Re and ACE Lifes international operations. Life and annuity benefits declined due to favorable experience on variable annuity business combined with a decrease in group long term disability business, which typically incurs higher benefit ratios than other types of business.  Net Investment Income (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Fixed maturities $ 1,773 $ 1,463 $ 1,170 Short term investments 130 119 86 Equity securities 68 57 50 Other 25 26 22 Gross investment income 1,996 1,665 1,328 Investment expenses (78 ) (64 ) (64 ) Net investment income $ 1,918 $ 1,601 $ 1,264 Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors, including the amounts and timing of inward and outward cash flows, the level of interest rates, and changes in overall asset allocation. Net investment income increased 20 percent in 2007, compared with 2006, and 27 percent in 2006, compared with 2005. The increase in net investment income is primarily due to several years of positive operating cash flows which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. The investment portfolios average market yield on fixed maturities was 5.3 percent at December 31, 2007, compared 62 Table of Contents with 5.4 percent and 5.0 percent at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The following table shows the return on average invested assets for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Average invested assets $ 38,804 $ 34,007 $ 29,118 Net investment income $ 1,918 $ 1,601 $ 1,264 Return on average invested assets 4.9% 4.7% 4.3% Net Realized Gains (Losses) We take a long term view with our investment strategy and our investment managers manage our investment portfolio to maximize total return within certain specific guidelines designed to minimize risk. The majority of our investment portfolio is available for sale and reported at fair value. Our held to maturity investment portfolio is reported at amortized cost. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when other than temporary impairments are recorded on invested assets. Additionally, net income is impacted through the reporting of changes in the fair value of derivatives, including financial futures, options, swaps, and GMIB reinsurance. Changes in unrealized appreciation and depreciation on available for sale securities, which result from the revaluation of securities held, are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. The following table presents our pre tax net realized gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Fixed maturities $ (98 ) $ (220 ) $ (45 ) Equity securities 162 163 76 Foreign exchange gains (losses) 4 (13 ) Other 37 28 4 Sale of run off reinsurance subsidiaries (23 ) Derivatives: Equity and fixed income derivatives (19 ) (18 ) 12 Fair value adjustment on insurance derivatives (147 ) (15 ) 29 Subtotal derivatives (166 ) (33 ) 41 Total net realized gains (losses) $ (61 ) $ (98 ) $ 76 Subject to investment guidelines approved by our Finance and Investment Committee of the Board of Directors (relating to asset classes, credit quality, and liquidity), our investment managers generally have the ability to sell securities from our available for sale investment portfolio with the concurrence of ACE management when they determine that an alternative security with comparable risks is likely to provide a higher investment return, considering the realized gain or loss on sale of the held security and differential in future investment income. Often, sales of individual securities occur when investment managers conclude there are changes in the credit quality of a particular security or, for other reasons, market value is apt to deteriorate. Further, we may sell securities when we conclude it is prudent to reduce a concentration in a particular issuer or industry. Therefore, securities sales volume may increase in a volatile credit market in which credit spreads and, thus, the market value of fixed maturity investments are subject to significant changes in a short period of time. The interest rate environment will tend to have a limited effect on securities sales volume but extreme conditions could have an effect on the magnitude of realized gains or losses. For example, in a declining interest rate environment, the market value of securities increases, resulting in a greater likelihood of net realized gains and we would, therefore, tend to reduce the average duration of our fixed maturity investment portfolio. An increasing interest rate environment would tend to have the opposite effect. The effect of a high level of realized losses or gains for a particular period will tend to be offset by increases or decreases in investment income, respectively, in subsequent periods. From a liquidity perspective, our greatest risk is that we could be forced to sell a large volume of securities at a loss (i.e., in a high interest rate environment) to meet operating needs and are, thus, unable to reinvest proceeds to recoup such losses with future investment income (Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information). 63 Table of Contents In 2007, we recorded net realized losses of $166 million on derivative transactions. This compares with a net realized loss of $33 million and a net realized gain of $41 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates and equity indices on the fair value of derivatives and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. We regularly review our investment portfolio for possible impairment based on criteria including economic conditions, credit loss experience, and issuer specific developments. If there is a decline in a securitys net realizable value, we must determine whether that decline is temporary or other than temporary. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record it as an unrealized loss in our shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the book value of the investment and record a net realized loss in our statement of operations. The decision to recognize a decline in the value of a security carried at fair value as other than temporary rather than temporary has no impact on our book value. Once a security is identified as having a potential other than temporary impairment, we determine whether or not cost will ultimately be recovered and whether we have the intent and ability to hold the security until an expected recovery period, absent a significant change in facts that is expected to have a material adverse financial effect on the issuer. The process of determining whether a decline in value is temporary or other than temporary requires considerable judgment and differs depending on whether or not the security is traded on a public market as well as by type of security. We review all of our fixed maturities and equity securities for potential impairment each quarter. Refer to Note 3 e) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for criteria we consider in assessing potential impairment and for a table which summarizes all of our securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2007 and 2006. Our net realized losses in 2007 included write downs of $141 million as a result of conditions which caused us to conclude that the decline in fair value was other than temporary. This compares with write downs of $214 million and $88 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The impairments were primarily due to an increase in market interest rates from the date of security purchase and as such, were not credit related. A breakdown of write downs by security type is included in Note 3 f) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. Other Income and Expense Items Years Ended December 31 (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Equity in net (income) loss of partially owned companies $ 39 $ (60) $ (60) Minority interest (income) expense 7 8 16 Federal excise tax 18 10 7 Other 17 7 12 Other (income) expense $ 81 $ (35) $ (25) Other (income) expense is primarily comprised of our equity in net income of Assured Guaranty Ltd. (included in equity in net income of partially owned companies). During 2007, Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) recorded mark to market losses in its credit derivatives portfolio, our portion of which was $122 million. These losses were reported as realized losses by AGO. Our relationship with AGO is limited to our equity investment, which had a carrying value of $392 million at December 31, 2007. We conduct no financial guaranty business directly or with AGO and we retain no financial guaranty exposures with AGO. For more information, refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors under Liquidity and Investments. Other income and expense also includes certain excise taxes incurred as a result of capital management initiatives. These transactions are considered capital in nature and are excluded from underwriting results. Investments Our principal investment objective is to ensure that funds are available to meet our insurance and reinsurance obligations. Within this broad liquidity constraint, the purpose of our investment portfolios structure is to maximize total return subject to specifically approved guidelines of overall asset classes, credit quality, liquidity, and volatility of expected returns. Our investment portfolio is invested primarily in fixed income securities with an average credit quality of AA, as rated by the independent investment rating service Standard and Poors (S&P). The portfolio is externally managed by independent, professional investment managers. The average duration of our fixed income securities, including the effect of options and swaps, was 3.5 years 64 Table of Contents at December 31, 2007, compared with 3.3 years at December 31, 2006. We estimate that a 100 basis point (bps) increase in interest rates would reduce our book value by approximately $1.3 billion. Our Other investments are principally comprised of direct investments, investment funds, and limited partnerships. Our exposure to sub prime asset backed securities was $135 million at December 31, 2007, which represented less than one percent of our investment portfolio. We do not expect any material investment loss from our exposure to sub prime mortgages. We hold no collateralized debt obligations or collateralized loan obligations in our investment portfolio. The following table shows the fair value and cost/amortized cost of our invested assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006. 2007 2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Fair Value Cost/Amortized Cost Fair Value Cost/Amortized Cost Fixed maturities available for sale $ 33,184 $ 32,994 $ 28,540 $ 28,389 Fixed maturities held to maturity 3,015 2,987 3,015 3,047 Short term investments 2,631 2,631 2,456 2,456 38,830 38,612 34,011 33,892 Equity securities 1,837 1,618 1,713 1,372 Other investments 1,140 880 845 661 Total investments $ 41,807 $ 41,110 $ 36,569 $ 35,925 The fair value of our total investments increased $5.3 billion in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to the investment of $4.3 billion of positive cash flows in the current period. The following tables show the market value of our fixed maturities and short term investments at December 31, 2007 and 2006. The first table lists investments according to type and the second according to S&P credit rating. 2007 2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Market Value Percentage ofTotal Market Value Percentage ofTotal Treasury $ 1,145 3% $ 1,322 4% Agency 1,820 5% 2,207 7% Corporate 9,015 23% 7,394 22% Mortgage backed securities 13,733 35% 11,346 33% Asset backed securities 1,150 3% 2,020 6% Municipal 1,844 5% 809 2% Non U.S. 7,492 19% 6,457 19% Short term investments 2,631 7% 2,456 7% Total $ 38,830 100% $ 34,011 100% AAA $ 24,553 63% $ 22,471 66% AA 3,747 10% 2,725 8% A 4,590 12% 3,909 12% BBB 3,297 8% 2,498 7% BB 1,073 3% 943 3% B 1,481 4% 1,365 4% Other 89 100 Total $ 38,830 100% $ 34,011 100% Municipal bond portfolio With regard to our $1.8 billion municipal bond portfolio, financial guarantee companies insure approximately $850 million. These investments are made based on the underlying credit of the issuer and, as such, any decline in value because of a downgrade of bond insurers would be minimal. For example, without the AAA insurance guarantees, the average rating of this portfolio would fall to AA from AA+, which would result in a nominal decline in value. We would expect a similar market impact from the loss of AAA insurance guarantees on our $250 million in other investments wrapped by financial guarantors. 65 Table of Contents Mortgage backed and asset backed securities Additional details on the mortgage backed and asset backed components of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2007, are provided below: Mortgage backed and Asset backed Securities Market Value S&P Credit Rating (in millions of U.S. dollars) AAA AA A BBB BBand below Total Mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed (RMBS) GNMA $ 395 $ $ $ $ $ 395 FNMA 5,330 5,330 Freddie Mac 2,287 2,287 Total agency RMBS 8,012 8,012 Non agency RMBS 3,070 11 1 12 3,094 Total RMBS 11,082 11 1 12 11,106 Commercial mortgage backed 2,611 3 10 3 2,627 Total mortgage backed securities $ 13,693 $ 14 $ 11 $ 15 $ $ 13,733 Asset backed securities Sub prime $ 125 $ 2 $ 8 $ $ $ 135 Credit Cards 76 17 8 101 Autos 621 27 8 656 Other 255 3 258 Total asset backed securities $ 1,077 $ 29 $ 36 $ 8 $ $ 1,150 Mortgage backed and Asset backed Securities Book Value S&P Credit Rating (in millions of U.S. dollars) AAA AA A BBB BB and below Total Mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed (RMBS) GNMA $ 390 $ $ $ $ $ 390 FNMA 5,272 5,272 Freddie Mac 2,259 2,259 Total agency RMBS 7,921 7,921 Non agency RMBS 3,066 11 1 12 3,090 Total RMBS 10,987 11 1 12 11,011 Commercial mortgage backed 2,574 3 10 3 2,590 Total mortgage backed securities $ 13,561 $ 14 $ 11 $ 15 $ $ 13,601 Asset backed securities Sub prime $ 135 $ 2 $ 8 $ $ $ 145 Credit Cards 74 17 8 99 Autos 619 27 7 653 Other 254 3 257 Total asset backed securities $ 1,082 $ 29 $ 35 $ 8 $ $ 1,154 66 Table of Contents Below investment grade securities In accordance with our investment process, we invest in below investment grade securities through dedicated investment portfolios actively managed by external investment managers that have investment professionals specifically dedicated to this asset class. At December 31, 2007, our fixed income investment portfolio included below investment grade and non rated securities which, in total, comprised approximately seven percent of our fixed income portfolio. We define a security as being below investment grade if it has an S&P credit rating of BB or less. Our below investment grade and non rated portfolio includes approximately 800 issues, with the top 15 holdings making up approximately 12 percent of the $2.6 billion balance at December 31, 2007. The greatest single exposure in this portfolio of securities is $28 million. Below investment grade securities have different characteristics than investment grade corporate debt securities. Risk of loss from default by the borrower is greater with below investment grade securities. Below investment grade securities are generally unsecured and are often subordinated to other creditors of the issuer. Also, issuers of below investment grade securities usually have higher levels of debt and are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as recession or increasing interest rates, than are investment grade issuers. We reduce the overall risk in the below investment grade portfolio, as in all investments, through careful credit analysis, strict investment policy guidelines, and diversification by issuer and or guarantor as well as by industry. Restricted Assets We are required to maintain assets on deposit with various regulatory authorities to support our insurance and reinsurance operations. These requirements are generally promulgated in the statutory regulations of the individual jurisdictions. The assets on deposit are available to settle insurance and reinsurance liabilities. We also utilize trust funds in certain large transactions where the trust funds are set up for the benefit of the ceding companies and generally take the place of letter of credit (LOC) requirements. We also have investments in segregated portfolios primarily to provide collateral or guarantees for LOCs and debt instruments. Refer to Notes 8 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. The following table identifies the value of restricted assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 Deposits with U.S. regulatory authorities $ 1,068 $ 999 Deposits with non U.S. regulatory authorities 2,101 1,968 Assets used for collateral or guarantees 1,116 1,045 Trust funds 4,349 3,008 $ 8,634 $ 7,020 The value of restricted assets increased 23 percent in 2007 compared with 2006, primarily due to an assumed loss portfolio contract (written during the first quarter of 2007) and the increased use of trust funds in support of U.S. managed business ceded by U.S. insurance entities of ACE USA to ACE Tempest Re Bermuda. Reinsurance Recoverable on Ceded Reinsurance The composition of our reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2007 and 2006, is as follows: (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses $ 13,990 $ 13,903 Provision for uncollectible reinsurance on unpaid losses and loss expenses (470 ) (394 ) Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance 13,520 13,509 Reinsurance recoverable on paid losses and loss expenses 1,050 1,316 Provision for uncollectible reinsurance on paid losses and loss expenses (216 ) (255 ) Reinsurance recoverable on future policy benefits 8 10 Net reinsurance recoverable $ 14,362 $ 14,580 We evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and potential reinsurers on a regular basis and also monitor concentrations of credit risk with reinsurers. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is required principally due to the failure of reinsurers to indemnify us, primarily because of disputes under reinsurance contracts and insolvencies. Provisions have been established for amounts estimated to be uncollectible. 67 Table of Contents Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E. These A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to future changes in the legal, social, and economic environment. We have not assumed any such future changes in setting the value of our A&E reserves, which include provisions for both reported and IBNR claims. Our exposure to A&E claims principally arises out of liabilities acquired when we purchased Westchester Specialty in 1998 and the P&C business of CIGNA in 1999, with the larger exposure contained within the liabilities acquired in the CIGNA transaction. In 1996, prior to our acquisition of the P&C business of CIGNA, the Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner approved a plan to restructure INA Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Restructuring) which included the division of Insurance Company of North America (INA) into two separate corporations: (1) an active insurance company that retained the INA name and continued to write P&C business and (2) an inactive run off company, now called Century Indemnity Company (Century). As a result of the division, predominantly all A&E and certain other liabilities of INA were allocated to Century and extinguished, as a matter of Pennsylvania law, as liabilities of INA. As part of the Restructuring, most A&E liabilities of various U.S. affiliates of INA were reinsured to Century, and Century and certain other run off companies having A&E and other liabilities were contributed to Brandywine Holdings. As part of the 1999 acquisition of the P&C business of CIGNA, we acquired Brandywine Holdings and its various subsidiaries. For more information refer to Brandywine Run Off Entities below. The table below presents a roll forward of our consolidated A&E loss reserves, allocated and unallocated loss expense reserves for A&E exposures, and the provision for uncollectible reinsurance for the year ended December 31, 2007. Asbestos Environmental Total (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 3,221 $ 1,611 $ 489 $ 433 $ 3,710 $ 2,044 Incurred activity (6 ) (6 ) Payment activity (284 ) (115 ) (71 ) (40 ) (355 ) (155 ) Foreign currency revaluation 5 2 5 2 Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 2,942 $ 1,492 $ 418 $ 393 $ 3,360 $ 1,885 The A&E net loss reserves including allocated and unallocated loss expense reserves and provision for uncollectible reinsurance at December 31, 2007, of $1.885 billion shown in the above table are comprised of $1.323 billion in reserves held by Brandywine run off companies, $224 million of reserves held by Westchester Specialty, $169 million of reserves held by ACE Bermuda, $148 million of reserves held by Insurance Overseas General, and $21 million of reserves held by active ACE USA companies. The net figures in the above table reflect third party reinsurance other than reinsurance provided by NICO under three aggregate excess of loss contracts described below (collectively, the NICO contracts). We exclude the NICO contracts as they cover non A&E liabilities as well as A&E liabilities. The split of coverage provided under the NICO contracts for A&E liabilities as compared to non A&E liabilities is entirely dependant on the timing of the payment of the related claims. Our ability to make an estimate of this split is not practicable. We believe, instead, that the A&E discussion is best provided excluding the NICO contracts, while separately discussing the NICO contracts in relation to the total subject business, both A&E and non A&E, covered by those contracts. With certain exceptions, the NICO contracts provide coverage for our net A&E incurred losses and allocated loss expenses within the limits of coverage and above ACEs retention levels. These exceptions include losses arising from certain operations of Insurance Overseas General and participations by ACE Bermuda as a co reinsurer or retrocessionaire in the NICO contracts. Brandywine run off impact of NICO contracts on ACEs run off liabilities As part of the acquisition of CIGNAs P&C business, NICO provided $2.5 billion of reinsurance protection to Century on all Brandywine loss and allocated loss adjustment expense reserves and on the A&E reserves of various ACE INA insurance subsidiaries reinsured by Century (in each case, including uncollectible reinsurance). The benefits of this NICO contract (the Brandywine NICO Agreement) flow to the other Brandywine companies and to the ACE INA insurance subsidiaries through agreements between those companies and Century. The Brandywine NICO Agreement was exhausted on an incurred basis in the fourth quarter of 2002. 68 Table of Contents The following table presents a roll forward of net loss reserves, allocated and unallocated loss adjustment expense reserves, and provision for uncollectible reinsurance in respect of Brandywine operations only, including the impact of the Brandywine NICO Agreement. The table presents Brandywine incurred activity for the year ended December 31, 2007. Brandywine NICOCoverage(3) Net of NICOCoverage (in millions of U.S. dollars) A&E(1) Other(2) Total Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 1,503 $ 1,101 $ 2,604 $ 1,811 $ 793 Incurred activity (8 ) 33 25 25 Payment activity (172 ) (94 ) (266 ) (214 ) (52 ) Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 1,323 $ 1,040 $ 2,363 $ 1,597 $ 766 (1) The balance at December 31, 2006, has been reduced by $25 million of provision for uncollectible reinsurance as this balance was unrelated to A&E exposures. (2) Other consists primarily of workers compensation, non A&E general liability losses, and provision for uncollectible reinsurance on non A&E business. (3) The balance at December 31, 2006, has been adjusted by $104 million to reflect a change in reporting to an incurred basis from a cash received basis. The Brandywine A&E incurred benefit of $8 million was a result of a recovery recorded on a casualty clash reinsurance cover. The Brandywine Other incurred loss of $33 million is principally comprised of a reclassification of bad debt charges of $26 million from our active company run off operations to Brandywine. Reserve reviews During 2007, we conducted an internal review of our consolidated A&E liabilities as of June 30, 2007. As a result of the internal review, we concluded that our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, were adequate and, therefore, no change to the carried reserve was required. An internal review was also conducted during 2006 for our consolidated A&E liabilities as of June 30, 2006. For that review, we concluded that our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, were adequate and, therefore, no change to the carried net reserve was required, while the gross loss reserves increased by approximately $210 million. In 2006, a team of external actuaries performed an evaluation as to the adequacy of the reserves of Century. This external review was conducted in accordance with the Brandywine Restructuring Order, which requires that an external actuarial review of Centurys reserves be completed every two years. The results of the external review were addressed with the Pennsylvania Insurance Department and no changes to statutory basis loss reserves were deemed necessary. Our A&E reserves are not discounted and do not reflect any anticipated future changes in the legal, social, or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. Westchester Specialty impact of NICO contracts on ACEs run off liabilities As part of the acquisition of Westchester Specialty in 1998, NICO provided a 75 percent pro rata share of $1 billion of reinsurance protection on losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred on or before December 31, 1996, in excess of a retention of $721 million (the 1998 NICO Agreement). NICO has also provided an 85 percent pro rata share of $150 million of reinsurance protection on losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses incurred on or before December 31, 1992, in excess of a retention of $755 million (the 1992 NICO Agreement). At December 31, 2007, the remaining unused incurred limit under the 1998 NICO Agreement was $488 million, which is only available for losses and loss adjustment expenses. The 1992 NICO Agreement is exhausted on an incurred basis. The following table presents a roll forward of net loss reserves, allocated and unallocated loss adjustment expense reserves, and provision for uncollectible reinsurance in respect of 1996 and prior Westchester Specialty operations that are the subject business of the NICO covers. The table presents incurred activity for the year ended December 31, 2007. Westchester Specialty NICOCoverage(3) Net ofNICOCoverage (in millions of U.S. dollars) A&E(1) Other(2) Total Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 221 $ 147 $ 368 $ 327 $ 41 Incurred activity 2 2 2 Payment activity 3 (29 ) (26 ) (29 ) 3 Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 224 $ 120 $ 344 $ 298 $ 46 (1) The balance at December 31, 2006, has been reduced by $50 million of reinsurance recoverable as this balance was unrelated to A&E exposures. (2) Other consists primarily of non A&E general liability and products liability losses. (3) The balance at December 31, 2006, has been adjusted by $19 million to reflect a change in reporting to an incurred basis from a cash received basis. 69 Table of Contents Reserving considerations For asbestos, we face claims relating to policies issued to manufacturers, distributors, installers, and other parties in the chain of commerce for asbestos and products containing asbestos. Claims can be filed by individual claimants or groups of claimants with the potential for hundreds of individual claimants at one time. Claimants will generally allege damages across an extended time period which may coincide with multiple policies for a single insured. Environmental claims present exposure for remediation and defense costs associated with the contamination of property as a result of pollution. It is common, especially for larger defendants, to be named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at multiple sites. Our environmental claim count definition is based on policyholder by site numbers. For example, if a policyholder were named as a PRP at 10 pollution sites, we would track this as 10 claim counts. In addition, should we have multiple policyholders identified as PRPs at the same waste site, each would constitute a separate claim count. The table below summarizes count information for asbestos and environmental claims for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, for direct policies only, and excludes claims from assumed reinsurance. 2007 2006 Asbestos (by causative agent) Open at the beginning of year 1,391 1,349 Newly reported 87 80 Closed or otherwise disposed 309 38 Open at end of year 1,169 1,391 Environmental (by site) Open at the beginning of year 6,424 6,902 Newly reported 206 220 Closed or otherwise disposed 1,498 698 Open at end of year 5,132 6,424 In 2007, the number of newly reported asbestos claims rose nine percent to 87, compared with 80 new claims in 2006. The total pending asbestos claims decreased 16 percent to 1,169 at December 31, 2007, compared with 1,391 at December 31, 2006. This decrease in pending claims is influenced by the number of closings during the period. This decrease in claims was attributable, in part, to the formal closing of files that had been inactive for some time. A review of the inactive files revealed that payment was no longer sought on the files, therefore, the files were closed. In 2007, the number of newly reported environmental claims continued the decline experienced in recent years. The number of new sites in 2007 declined six percent to 206, compared with 220 in 2006. Total pending environmental claims at December 31, 2007, declined 20 percent to 5,132, compared with 6,424 at December 31, 2006. This decrease in claims was attributable, in part, to the formal closing of files that had been inactive for some time. A review of the inactive files revealed that payment was no longer sought on the files, therefore, the files were closed. The following table shows our gross and net survival ratios for our A&E loss reserves and ALAE reserves at December 31, 2007. 2007 Survival Ratios 2006 Survival Ratios 3 Year 1 Year 3 Year 1 Year Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Asbestos 10.2 10.7 10.6 10.6 10.9 10.5 8.8 7.6 Environmental 4.5 6.6 5.7 9.8 4.0 6.0 5.8 6.7 Total 8.9 9.3 9.6 10.4 8.9 8.9 8.3 7.4 The net ratios reflect third party reinsurance other than the aggregate excess reinsurance provided under the NICO contracts. These survival ratios are calculated by dividing the asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE reserves by the average asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments for the three most recent calendar years (3 year survival ratio), and by asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments in 2007 (1 year survival ratio). The survival ratios provide only a very rough measure of reserve adequacy and are significantly impacted by a number of factors such as aggressive settlement practices, variations in gross to ceded relationships within the asbestos or environmental claims and levels of coverage provided. We, therefore, 70 Table of Contents urge caution in using these very simplistic ratios to gauge reserve adequacy and note that the 1 year survival ratios, particularly, are likely to move considerably from year to year for the reasons just described. Three year gross and net survival ratios remained relatively consistent with the comparable three year ratios at December 31, 2006. The 1 year net survival ratio for asbestos increased to 10.6 from 7.6 in 2006. The 2006 net 1 year survival ratio for asbestos was adversely affected by a favorable settlement that resulted in a full buyback of policy obligations on a significant account that resulted in a large increase in payments for the year. Brandywine run off entities In addition to housing a significant portion of our A&E exposure, the Brandywine operations include run off liabilities related to various insurance and reinsurance businesses. The following companies comprise ACEs Brandywine operations: Century (a Pennsylvania insurer), Century Re (a Pennsylvania insurer), and Century International Reinsurance Company Ltd. (a Bermuda insurer (CIRC)). All of the Brandywine companies are direct or indirect subsidiaries of Brandywine Holdings. The U.S. based ACE INA companies assumed two contractual obligations in respect of the Brandywine operations in connection with the Restructuring: a dividend retention fund obligation and a surplus maintenance obligation in the form of an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement. In accordance with the Brandywine restructuring order, INA Financial Corporation established and funded a dividend retention fund (the Dividend Retention Fund) consisting of $50 million plus investment earnings. The full balance of the Dividend Retention Fund was contributed to Century as of December 31, 2002. To the extent future dividends are paid by INA Holdings Corporation to its parent, INA Financial Corporation, and to the extent INA Financial Corporation then pays such dividends to INA Corporation, a portion of those dividends must be withheld to replenish the principal of the Dividend Retention Fund to $50 million within five years. In 2007, 2006, and 2005, no such dividends were paid and, therefore, no replenishment of the Dividend Retention Fund occurred. The obligation to maintain and to replenish the Dividend Retention Fund as necessary and to the extent dividends are paid is ongoing until ACE INA receives prior written approval from the Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner to terminate the fund. In addition, an ACE INA insurance subsidiary provided reinsurance coverage to Century in the amount of $800 million under an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement (the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement) if the statutory capital and surplus of Century falls below $25 million or if Century lacks liquid assets with which to pay claims as they become due, after giving effect to the contribution of the balance, if any, of the Dividend Retention Fund. Coverage under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement was triggered as of December 31, 2002, following contribution of the balance of the Dividend Retention Fund, because Centurys capital and surplus fell below $25 million at December 31, 2002. Effective December 31, 2004, ACE INA Holdings contributed $100 million to Century in exchange for a surplus note. After giving effect to the contribution and issuance of the surplus note, the statutory surplus of Century at December 31, 2007, was $25 million and approximately $321 million in statutory basis losses were ceded to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement. Century reports the amount ceded under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement in accordance with statutory accounting principles, which differ from GAAP by, among other things, allowing Century to discount its asbestos and environmental reserves. For GAAP reporting purposes, intercompany reinsurance recoverables related to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement are eliminated upon consolidation. To estimate ACEs remaining claim exposure under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement on a GAAP basis, we adjust the statutory cession to exclude the discount embedded in statutory loss reserves and we adjust the statutory provision for uncollectible reinsurance to a GAAP basis amount. At December 31, 2007, approximately $572 million in GAAP basis losses were ceded under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement, leaving a remaining limit of coverage under that agreement of approximately $228 million. At December 31, 2006, the remaining limit of coverage under the agreement was $255 million. While we believe ACE has no legal obligation to fund losses above the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement limit of coverage, ACEs consolidated results would nevertheless continue to include any losses above the limit of coverage for so long as the Brandywine companies remain consolidated subsidiaries of ACE. Uncertainties relating to ACEs ultimate Brandywine exposure In addition to the Dividend Retention Fund and Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement commitments described above, certain ACE entities are primarily liable for asbestos, environmental, and other exposures that they have reinsured to Century. Accordingly, if Century were to become insolvent and ACE were to lose control of Century, some or all of the recoverables due to these ACE companies from Century could become uncollectible, yet those ACE entities would continue to be responsible to pay claims to their insureds or reinsureds. Under such circumstances, ACE would recognize a loss in its consolidated statement of operations. As of December 31, 2007, the aggregate reinsurance balances ceded by the active ACE companies to Century were approximately $1.5 billion. At December 31, 2007, Centurys carried gross reserves (including reserves ceded by the active ACE companies to Century) were $3.5 billion. We believe the intercompany reinsurance recoverables, which relate to 71 Table of Contents liabilities payable over many years (i.e., 25 years or more), are not impaired at this time. A substantial portion of the liabilities ceded to Century by its affiliates have in turn been ceded by Century to NICO and, as of December 31, 2007, approximately $1.6 billion of cover remains on a paid basis. Should Centurys loss reserves experience adverse development in the future and should Century be placed into rehabilitation or liquidation, the reinsurance recoverables due from Century to its affiliates would be payable only after the payment in full of certain expenses and liabilities, including administrative expenses and direct policy liabilities. Thus, the intercompany reinsurance recoverables would be at risk to the extent of the shortage of assets remaining to pay these recoverables. As of December 31, 2007, losses ceded by Century to the active ACE companies and other amounts owed to Century by the active ACE companies were approximately $523 million in the aggregate. Sale of Certain Brandywine Companies Refer to Note 9 i) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8.  Catastrophe Management We continue to closely monitor our catastrophe accumulation around the world and have significantly reduced our U.S. wind exposure since 2005. Our modeled annual aggregate 1 in 100 year return period U.S. hurricane probable maximum loss, net of reinsurance is approximately $918 million; i.e., there is a one percent chance that ACEs losses incurred in any year from U.S. hurricanes could be in excess of $918 million (or less than six percent of our total shareholders equity at December 31, 2007). We estimate that at such loss levels, aggregate industry losses are approximately $133 billion. If the 2005 hurricanes were to recur, our net losses on an as if basis would be 30 percent lower. ACEs modeled losses reflect our in force portfolio and catastrophe reinsurance program as of October 1, 2007. The modeling estimates of both ACE and industry loss levels are inherently uncertain owing to key assumptions. First, while the use of third party catastrophe modeling packages to simulate hurricane losses is prevalent within the insurance industry, the models are reliant upon significant meteorology and engineering assumptions to estimate hurricane losses. In particular, modeled hurricane events are not always a representation of actual events and ensuing additional loss potential. Second, there is no universal standard in the preparation of insured data for use in the models and the running of the modeling software. Third, we are reliant upon third party estimates of industry insured exposures and there is significant variation possible around the relationship between ACEs loss and that of the industry following an event. Fourth, we assume that our reinsurance recoveries following an event are fully collectible. These loss estimates do not represent ACEs potential maximum exposures and it is highly likely that ACEs actual incurred losses would vary materially from the modeled estimates.  Natural Catastrophe Reinsurance Program ACEs core catastrophe reinsurance program provides protection against natural catastrophes impacting its primary operations (i.e., excluding assumed reinsurance) and consists of two separate towers. First, for losses arising out of North America, our core traditional program renewed on January 1, 2008, and we purchased $123 million part of $300 million excess of $200 million in coverage and we purchased $118 million part of $200 million excess of $300 million in coverage. We also purchased $9 million part of $100 million excess of $200 million retention. The combined effect of our traditional program purchase is that we have 50 percent of $100 million excess of $200 million in coverage placed and we have 100 percent of $200 million excess of $300 million layer placed. In addition, we have purchased a reinsurance treaty that provides $100 million part of $175 million in coverage for U.S. property perils other than U.S. wind excess of $500 million. This cover essentially replaces a swap agreement that was effective at January 1, 2007, and provided us certain earthquake protection. Each program noted above has a single reinstatement available. In addition to the foregoing, we have in place a multi year, peril specific program from a major reinsurer that is backed by their credit worthiness and the issuance of fully collateralized catastrophe bonds. Under this multi year coverage, we have $200 million of U.S. hurricane coverage in excess of $504 million attachment point. In addition, we have purchased U.S. earthquake coverage with a territorial scope of California, the Pacific Northwest, and the central U.S. This cover is 25 percent of $200 million of loss incurred in excess of $683 million attachment point. Finally, we also purchased a combined U.S. earthquake (covering the three territories noted above) and U.S. hurricane top layer cover of $100 million part of $150 million of loss incurred in excess of an $817 million attachment point. These multi year programs do not have a reinstatement feature. To keep the expected loss the same each year of these multi year covers, the attachment point is adjusted annually, either up or down, based upon an independent modeling firms review of the exposure data underlying each program. As noted above, we did not renew the swap agreement and instead purchased a like amount of coverage in the traditional reinsurance marketplace. By way of comparison, the 2007 program has potentially approximately $36 million less in coverage for U.S. hurricane and Cal 72 Table of Contents ifornia earthquake than the expiring program. We consider our effective retention to be approximately $250 million but this will depend upon the nature of the loss and the interplay between the underlying per risk programs and certain other coverages purchased by individual business units. Second, for losses arising outside of North America and effective July 1, 2007, our core program is made up of two layers. We have protection of $100 million from a single catastrophic event in excess of the retention of $50 million with two reinstatements. In addition, we have another layer that provides $100 million in protection excess of $150 million with one reinstatement. There is further protection above this core program for specific geographic regions, being $100 million excess of $250 million for Asia Pacific and $150 million excess of $250 million for Europe. Each of these top layers has a single reinstatement. In addition, there are various underlying per risk and catastrophe treaties underlying the core programs retention of $50 million. In comparison to the prior year, the core program and the specific layer for Asia Pacific were each reduced by $50 million, and the Europe specific layer was increased by $50 million.  Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate cash flows sufficient to meet short term and long term cash requirements of its business operations. As a holding company, ACE Limited possesses assets that consist primarily of the stock of its subsidiaries and other investments. In addition to net investment income, our cash flows currently depend primarily on dividends or other statutorily permissible payments. Historically, these dividends and other payments have come from ACEs Bermuda based operating subsidiaries, which we refer to as our Bermuda subsidiaries. As an insurance company, one of our principal responsibilities to our clients is to ensure that we have ready access to funds to settle large unforeseen claims. We expect that positive cash flows from operations (underwriting activities and investment income) will be sufficient to cover cash outflows under most loss scenarios through 2008. To further ensure the sufficiency of funds to settle unforeseen claims, we hold a certain amount of invested assets in cash and short term investments and maintain available credit facilities (refer to the section entitled Credit Facilities below). In addition, for certain insurance, reinsurance, or deposit contracts that tend to have relatively large and reasonably predictable cash outflows, we attempt to establish dedicated portfolios of assets that are duration matched with the related liabilities. With respect to the duration of our overall investment portfolio, we manage asset durations to both maximize return given current market conditions and provide sufficient liquidity to cover future loss payments. In a low interest rate environment, the overall duration of our fixed maturity investments tends to be shorter and in a high interest rate environment, such durations tend to be longer. Given the current low rate environment, at December 31, 2007, the average duration of our fixed maturity investments (3.5 years) is less than the average expected duration of our insurance liabilities (3.8 years). Despite our safeguards, if paid losses accelerated beyond our ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows, we might need to either liquidate a portion of our investment portfolio or arrange for financing. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could include several significant catastrophes occurring in a relatively short period of time or large scale uncollectible reinsurance recoverables on paid losses (as a result of coverage disputes, reinsurers credit problems or, decreases in the value of collateral supporting reinsurance recoverables). Additional strain on liquidity could occur if the investments sold to fund loss payments were sold at depressed prices. Because each subsidiary focuses on a more limited number of specific product lines than is collectively available from the ACE Group of Companies, the mix of business tends to be less diverse at the subsidiary level. As a result, the probability of a liquidity strain, as described above, may be greater for individual subsidiaries than when liquidity is assessed on a consolidated basis. If such a liquidity strain were to occur in a subsidiary, we could liquidate a portion of the portfolio as well as be required to contribute capital to the particular subsidiary and or curtail dividends from the subsidiary to support holding company operations. The payments of dividends or other statutorily permissible distributions from our operating companies are subject to the laws and regulations applicable to each jurisdiction, as well as the need to maintain capital levels adequate to support the insurance and reinsurance operations, including financial strength ratings issued by independent rating agencies, which are discussed below. During 2007, we were able to meet all of our obligations, including the payment of dividends declared on our Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares, with our net cash flows and dividends received. Should the need arise, we generally have access to the capital markets and other available credit facilities. We assess which subsidiaries to draw dividends from based on a number of factors. Considerations such as regulatory and legal restrictions as well as the subsidiarys financial condition are paramount to the dividend decision. The legal restrictions on the payment of dividends from retained earnings by our Bermuda subsidiaries are currently satisfied by the share capital and additional paid in capital of each of the Bermuda subsidiaries. In 2007, ACE Bermuda declared and paid 73 Table of Contents dividends of $168 million. During 2006, ACE Bermuda and ACE Tempest Life Reinsurance declared and paid dividends of $491 million and $125 million, respectively. We expect that a majority of our cash inflows in 2008 will be from our Bermuda subsidiaries. The payment of any dividends from ACE Global Markets or its subsidiaries is subject to applicable U.K. insurance laws and regulations. In addition, the release of funds by Syndicate 2488 to subsidiaries of ACE Global Markets is subject to regulations promulgated by the Society of Lloyds. ACE INAs U.S. insurance subsidiaries may pay dividends, without prior regulatory approval, subject to restrictions set out in state law of the subsidiarys domicile (or, if applicable, commercial domicile). ACE INAs international subsidiaries are also subject to insurance laws and regulations particular to the countries in which the subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations sometimes include restrictions that limit the amount of dividends payable without prior approval of regulatory insurance authorities. ACE Limited did not receive any dividends from ACE Global Markets or ACE INA in 2007 and 2006. The debt issued by ACE INA to provide partial financing for the ACE INA acquisition and for other operating needs is serviced by statutorily permissible distributions by ACE INAs insurance subsidiaries to ACE INA as well as other group resources. Our consolidated sources of funds consist primarily of net premiums written, net investment income, and proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. Funds are used primarily to pay claims, operating expenses, and dividends and to service debt and purchase investments. After satisfying our cash requirements, excess cash flows from these underwriting and investing activities are invested. Our insurance and reinsurance operations provide liquidity in that premiums are received in advance, sometimes substantially in advance, of the time claims are paid. Generally, cash flows are affected by claim payments that, due to the nature of our operations, may be comprised of large loss payments on a limited number of claims and which can fluctuate significantly from period to period. The irregular timing of these loss payments can create significant variations in cash flows from operations between periods. Refer to Contractual Obligations and Commitments for our estimate for future claim payments by period. Sources of liquidity include cash from operations, routine sales of investments, and financing arrangements. The following is a discussion of our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. Our consolidated net cash flows from operating activities were $4.7 billion in 2007, compared with $4.1 billion in 2006. These amounts reflect net income for each period, adjusted for non cash items and changes in working capital. Net income increased to $2.6 billion in 2007, compared with $2.3 billion in 2006. For 2007, significant adjustments included increases in unpaid losses and loss expenses and unearned premiums of $838 million due to growth in our A&H line and a decrease in reinsurance recoverable of $343 million. Net cash flows from operating activities in 2006 were negatively impacted by increased catastrophe loss payments. Our consolidated net cash flows used for investing activities were $4.5 billion in 2007, compared with $3.8 billion in 2006. For the indicated periods, net cash flows used for investing activities were related principally to net purchases of fixed maturities. The 2006 year included the impact of the sale of the run off companies which reduced cash and investments by approximately $500 million. Our consolidated net cash flows used for financing activities were $253 million in 2007, compared with $284 million in 2006. Net cash flows used for financing activities in 2007 were primarily comprised of dividends paid on Ordinary Shares, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of options for Ordinary Shares. Both internal and external forces influence our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Claim settlements, premium levels, and investment returns may be impacted by changing rates of inflation and other economic conditions. In many cases, significant periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, may lapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us, and the settlement of the liability for that loss. We believe that our cash balances, cash flow from operations, routine sales of investments, and the liquidity provided by our credit facilities, as discussed below, are adequate to meet expected cash requirements. As discussed under Long term Debt, below, we have issued debt and secured lender commitments totaling approximately $750 million in connection with our agreement to purchase Combined. We expect the balance of the approximately $2.4 billion purchase price ($1.65 billion) to be funded using internally generated resources. In order to enhance cash management efficiency during periods of short term timing mismatches between expected inflows and outflows of cash by currency, in 2006, we entered into agreements with a bank provider to implement two international multi currency notional cash pooling programs. In each program, participating ACE entities establish deposit accounts in different currencies with the bank provider and each day the credit or debit balances in every account are notionally translated into a single currency (U.S. dollars) and then notionally pooled. The bank extends overdraft credit to any participating ACE entity as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in each pool at the end 74 Table of Contents of each day is at least zero. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not co mingled between legal entities. ACE entities may incur overdraft balances as a means to address short term timing mismatches, and any overdraft balances incurred under this program by an ACE entity would be guaranteed by ACE Limited (up to $150 million in the aggregate). The dedicated credit facility previously available to ACE Limited was cancelled in November 2007, following the completion of the renewed revolving credit facility discussed below, which was amended to allow same day draw downs for both programs. ACE Limited and its subsidiaries are assigned debt and financial strength (insurance) ratings from internationally recognized rating agencies, including S&P, A.M. Best, Moodys Investors Service, and Fitch. The ratings issued on our companies by these agencies are announced publicly and are available directly from the agencies. Our Internet site, www.acelimited.com, also contains some information about our ratings, which can be found under the Investor Information tab. Financial strength ratings reflect the rating agencies opinions of a companys claims paying ability. Independent ratings are one of the important factors that establish our competitive position in the insurance markets. The rating agencies consider many factors in determining the financial strength rating of an insurance company, including the relative level of statutory surplus necessary to support the business operations of the company. These ratings are based upon factors relevant to policyholders, agents, and intermediaries and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities. Debt ratings apply to short term and long term debt as well as preferred stock. These ratings are assessments of the likelihood that we will make timely payments of principal, interest, and preferred stock dividends. It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies may reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. In addition, our insurance and reinsurance operations could be adversely impacted by a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, including a possible reduction in demand for our products in certain markets. Capital Resources Capital resources consist of funds deployed, or available to be deployed, to support our business operations. The following table summarizes the components of our capital resources at December 31, 2007 and 2006. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 Short term debt $ 372 $ 578 Long term debt 1,811 1,560 Total debt 2,183 2,138 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Preferred Shares 557 557 Ordinary shareholders equity 16,120 13,721 Total shareholders equity 16,677 14,278 Total capitalization $ 19,169 $ 16,725 Ratio of debt to total capitalization 11.4% 12.8% Ratio of debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization 13.0% 14.6% We believe our financial strength provides us with the flexibility and capacity to obtain funds externally through debt or equity financing on both a short term and long term basis. Our ability to access the capital markets is dependent on, among other things, market conditions and our perceived financial strength. We have accessed both the debt and equity markets from time to time. Short term Debt Short term debt at December 31, 2007, consisted of AUD $100 million ($87 million) of 7.81 percent senior notes due December 2008, $250 million in aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes due October 2008 (classified under long term debt at December 31, 2006) and $35 million owed to brokers under a securities repurchase agreement. In April 2007, we repaid $500 million of indebtedness. During 2007, we executed a securities repurchase agreement with a counterparty. Under this repurchase agreement, we agreed to sell securities and repurchase them at a date in the future for a predetermined price. 75 Table of Contents Long term Debt Our total long term debt of $1.8 billion is described in detail in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. In February 2007, we issued, at a small discount, $500 million of 5.7 percent senior notes due 2017. We used the net proceeds from this issuance together with available cash to repay $500 million of indebtedness which matured in April 2007 (classified as short term debt at December 31, 2006). In connection with our agreement to purchase Combined, in February 2008, we issued, at a slight discount, $300 million of 5.8 percent notes that mature in 2018. We have lender commitments for us to borrow $450 million in a five year private transaction with a bank syndicate at a fixed rate of approximately 4.15 percent. The borrowing is contingent on the closing of the acquisition of Combined. We plan to use the net proceeds from both the bank loan and public issuance to pay a portion of the purchase price of Combined. The following instruments have specific collateral triggers. In 1998, ACE US Holdings issued $250 million of unsecured senior notes that mature October 2008. In December 1999, ACE INA issued $300 million of unsecured subordinated notes that mature December 2009; we repaid $100 million of this outstanding amount during 2002. We have a $450 million credit default swap in place that has the economic effect of reducing our cost of borrowing associated with these two issuances. The minimum collateral in connection with the credit default swap is $158 million. The actual collateral can be higher depending on the credit quality of securities pledged. Under these transactions, we would be required to provide collateral of $450 million if S&P downgraded our debt rating to BB+ or lower or downgraded ACE Bermudas financial strength rating to BBB or lower. Although there can be no assurance, we believe it is unlikely that either of these two events will occur. In the event that we terminate either of the swaps prematurely, we would be liable for certain transaction costs. The counter party in each swap is a highly rated major financial institution and management does not anticipate non performance. Trust Preferred Securities The securities outstanding consist of $300 million of trust preferred securities due 2030, issued by a special purpose entity (a trust) that is wholly owned by us. The sole assets of the special purpose entities are debt instruments issued by one or more of our subsidiaries. The special purpose entity looks to payments on the debt instruments to make payments on the preferred securities. We have guaranteed the payments on these debt instruments. The trustees of the trust include one or more of our officers and at least one independent trustee, such as a trust company. Our officers serving as trustees of the trust do not receive any compensation or other remuneration for their services in such capacity. The full $309 million of outstanding trust preferred securities (calculated as $300 million as discussed above plus our equity share of the trust) is shown on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability. Additional information with respect to the trust preferred securities is contained in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. Ordinary Shares Total shareholders equity increased $2.4 billion in 2007, primarily due to net income of $2.6 billion which was partially offset by dividends declared. Our ratios of debt to total capitalization and debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization have decreased due to the increase in shareholders equity and stable debt and trust preferred securities. As part of our capital management program, in November 2001, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of any ACE issued debt or capital securities including Ordinary Shares, up to $250 million. At December 31, 2007, this authorization had not been utilized. We generally maintain shelf capacity at all times in order to allow capital market access for refinancing as well as for unforeseen capital needs. Our unlimited shelf registration expires in December 2008. On January 12, 2007, and April 13, 2007, we paid dividends of 25 cents per ordinary share to shareholders of record on December 29, 2006, and March 30, 2007, respectively. On July 13, 2007, October 12, 2007, and January 11, 2008, we paid dividends of 27 cents per share to shareholders of record on June 29, 2007, September 30, 2007, and December 31, 2007, respectively. We have paid dividends each quarter since we became a public company in 1993. However, the declaration, payment, and value of future dividends on ordinary shares is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our profits, financial requirements, and other factors including legal restrictions on the payment of dividends and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. Dividends on the preferred shares are payable quarterly when, and if, declared by our Board of Directors, in arrears on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year. We paid dividends of $4.875 per preferred share on March 1, 2007, June 1, 2007, September 1, 2007, and 76 Table of Contents December 1, 2007, to shareholders of record on February 28, 2007, May 31, 2007, August 31, 2007, and November 30, 2007, respectively. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The table below shows our contractual obligations and commitments including our payments due by period at December 31, 2007. Payments Due By Period (in millions of U.S. dollars) Total Less than 1Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5Years Payment amounts determinable from the respective contracts Deposit liabilities $ 351 $ 52 $ 82 $ 67 $ 150 Purchase obligations 380 58 175 103 44 Limited partnerships funding commitments 606 291 315 Operating leases 339 61 105 76 97 Short term debt 372 372 Long term debt 1,811 400 1,411 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Interest on debt obligations 1,941 157 267 233 1,284 Total obligations in which payment amounts are determinable from the respective contracts 6,109 991 1,344 479 3,295 Payment amounts not determinable from the respective contracts Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts 37,112 9,037 10,107 5,519 12,449 Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits 2,263 120 265 248 1,630 Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 45,484 $ 10,148 $ 11,716 $ 6,246 $ 17,374 The above table excludes the following items: Pension Obligations: Minimum funding requirements for our pension obligations are immaterial over the next year. Subsequent funding commitments are apt to vary due to many factors and are difficult to estimate at this time. Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Preferred Shares: Our Preferred Shares, issued in 2003, have no fixed repayment terms. We may redeem the Preferred Shares at any time after May 30, 2008, at a redemption value of $25 per depository share (each of which represent one tenth of one Preferred Share) or at any time under certain limited circumstances. Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits are recorded in accordance with issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). The FIN 48 liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $157 million at December 31, 2007. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate for the timing of cash settlement with respect to these liabilities. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. We have no other significant contractual obligations or commitments not reflected in the table above. Deposit liabilities Deposit liabilities include reinsurance deposit liabilities of $325 million and $311 million and contract holder deposit funds of $26 million and $24 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The reinsurance deposit liabilities arise from contracts we sold for which there is not a significant transfer of risk. At contract inception, the deposit liability is equal to net cash we received. An accretion rate is established based on actuarial estimates whereby the deposit liability is increased to the estimated amount payable over the term of the contract. The deposit accretion rate is the rate of return required to fund expected future payment obligations. We periodically reassess the estimated ultimate liability and related expected rate of return. Any resulting changes to the amount of the deposit liability are reflected as an adjustment to earnings to reflect the cumulative effect of the period the contract has been in force, and by an adjustment to the future accretion rate of the liability over the remaining estimated contract term. 77 Table of Contents Additional information with respect to deposit liabilities is contained in Note 2 k) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. Purchase obligations We are party to enforceable and legally binding agreements to purchase certain services. Purchase obligations in the table primarily comprise audit fees and agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. Limited partnerships funding commitments In connection with our investments in limited partnerships, we have commitments that may require funding of up to $606 million over the next several years. The timing of the payment of these commitments is uncertain and will differ from our estimated timing in the table. Operating lease commitments We lease office space in most countries in which we operate under operating leases that expire at various dates through December 2033. We renew and enter into new leases in the ordinary course of business as required. Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts We are obligated to pay claims under insurance and reinsurance contracts for specified loss events covered under those contracts. Such loss payments represent our most significant future payment obligation as a P&C insurance and reinsurance company. In contrast to other contractual obligations, cash payments are not determinable from the terms specified within the contract. For example, we do not ultimately make a payment to our counterparty for many insurance and reinsurance contracts (i.e., when a loss event has not occurred) and if a payment is to be made, the amount and timing cannot be determined from the contract. In the table above, we estimate payments by period relating to our gross liability for unpaid losses and loss expenses included in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007, and do not take reinsurance recoverables into account. These estimated loss payments are inherently uncertain and the amount and timing of actual loss payments are likely to differ from these estimates and the differences could be material. Given the numerous factors and assumptions involved in both estimates of loss and loss expense reserves and related estimates as to the timing of future loss and loss expense payments in the table above, differences between actual and estimated loss payments will not necessarily indicate a commensurate change in ultimate loss estimates. Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits We establish reserves for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts including, but not limited to, guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDBs) and GMIBs. The amounts in the table are gross of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts. The liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet is discounted and, with respect to GMIB reinsurance, reflected net of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts, and with respect to GMDB reinsurance, does not consider benefit payments related to future fees or premiums not recognized through the balance sheet date. Accordingly, the estimated amounts in the table exceed the liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet. Payment amounts related to these reserves must be estimated and are not determinable from the contract. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing and amount of these payments, actual results could materially differ from the estimates in the table. Credit Facilities As our Bermuda subsidiaries are not admitted insurers and reinsurers in the U.S., the terms of certain U.S. insurance and reinsurance contracts require them to provide LOCs to clients. In addition, ACE Global Markets is required to satisfy certain U.S. regulatory trust fund requirements which can be met by the issuance of LOCs. LOCs may also be used for general corporate purposes and for funds at Lloyds. 78 Table of Contents The following table shows our credit facilities by credit line, usage, expiry date, and purpose at December 31, 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Credit Line1 Usage Expiry Date Unsecured Liquidity Facilities ACE Limited2 $ 500 $ 64 Nov. 2012 Other3 66 66 Various Unsecured Operational LOC Facilities ACE Limited 1,000 852 Nov. 2012 Unsecured Capital Facilities ACE Limited4 595 409 Dec. 2013 Total $ 2,161 $ 1,391 (1) Certain facilities are guaranteed by operating subsidiaries and or ACE Limited. (2) May also be used for LOCs. (3) These facilities are issued in the name of ACE European Group Limited, Lloyds Syndicate 2488, and Century Indemnity Reinsurance Company. (4) Supports ACE Global Markets underwriting capacity for Lloyds Syndicate 2488. In November 2007, we entered into a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility expiring in November 2012. This facility is available for general corporate purposes and the issuance of LOCs and replaced the existing $600 million revolving credit facility. On the effective date of the new revolving credit facility, all outstanding LOCs issued under the replaced facility were deemed to have been issued under the new revolving credit facility and the replaced facility terminated. In November 2007, we entered into a $1 billion unsecured operational LOC facility expiring in November 2012. This facility replaced two LOC facilities permitting up to $1.5 billion of LOCs. On the effective date of the new LOC facility, all outstanding LOCs issued under the replaced facilities were deemed to have been issued under the new LOC facility and the replaced facilities terminated. In June 2007, Syndicate 2488 reduced the LOC balance supporting its funds at Lloyds in line with the requirements promulgated by Lloyds. The associated facility amount was also reduced to &pound;300 million. In November 2007, we gained approval from our bank group to extend the term of the facility by one year to satisfy Syndicate 2488s funding requirements through 2010. LOCs issued under this facility will expire no earlier than December 2013. With the exception of the LOC facilities noted under Other, the facilities in the table above require that we maintain certain covenants, all of which have been met at December 31, 2007. These covenants include (but are not limited to): (i) Maintenance of a minimum consolidated net worth in an amount not less than the Minimum Amount. For the purpose of this calculation, the Minimum Amount is an amount equal to the sum of the base amount (currently $9.6 billion) plus 25 percent of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter, ending after the date on which the current base amount became effective, plus 50 percent of any increase in consolidated net worth during the same period, attributable to the issuance of Ordinary and Preferred Shares. The Minimum Amount is subject to an annual reset provision. (ii) Maintenance of a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of not greater than 0.35 to 1. Under this covenant, debt does not include trust preferred securities or mezzanine equity, except where the ratio of the sum of trust preferred securities and mezzanine equity to total capitalization is greater than 15 percent. In this circumstance, the amount greater than 15 percent would be included in the debt to total capitalization ratio. At December 31, 2007, (a) the minimum consolidated net worth requirement under the covenant described in (i) above was $10.2 billion and our actual consolidated net worth as calculated under that covenant was $16.1 billion and (b) our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 0.11 to 1. In addition to these covenants, the ACE Global Markets capital facility requires that collateral be posted if the financial strength rating of ACE falls to S&P BBB+ or lower. Our failure to comply with the covenants under any credit facility would, subject to grace periods in the case of certain covenants, result in an event of default. This could require us to repay any outstanding borrowings or to cash collateralize LOCs under such facility. A failure by ACE Limited (or any of its subsidiaries) to pay an obligation due for an amount exceeding $50 million would result in an event of default under all of the facilities described above. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 r) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 79 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Market Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. We are exposed to potential losses from various market risks including changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Further, through the writings of certain products such as credit derivatives (through our approximately 24 percent ownership of Assured Guaranty Ltd.) and GMIB and GMDB products, we are exposed to deterioration in the credit markets, decreases in interest rates, and declines in the equity markets. Our investment portfolio consists of both fixed income and equity securities, denominated in both U.S. dollars and foreign currencies, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our fixed income and all of our equity securities are classified as available for sale and, as such, changes in interest rates, equity prices, or foreign currency exchange rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Nevertheless, changes in interest rates and equity prices affect consolidated net income when, and if, a security is sold or impaired. From time to time, we also use investment derivative instruments such as futures, options, swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage the duration of our investment portfolio and foreign currency exposures and also to obtain exposure to a particular financial market. In addition, as part of our investing activity, we purchase to be announced mortgage backed securities (TBAs). These instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are sensitive to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity security prices. Changes in the fair value of TBAs are included in net realized gains (losses) and therefore have an immediate effect on both our net income and shareholders equity. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, our notional exposure to investment derivative instruments was $15 billion. We seek to mitigate market risk using a number of techniques, including maintaining and managing the assets and liabilities of our international operations consistent with the foreign currencies of the underlying insurance and reinsurance businesses, thereby limiting exchange rate risk to net assets denominated in foreign currencies. The following is a discussion of our primary market risk exposures at December 31, 2007. Our policies to address these risks in 2007 were not materially different from 2006. We do not currently anticipate significant changes in our primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. Interest rate risk fixed income portfolio and debt obligations Our fixed income portfolio and debt obligations have exposure to interest rate risk. Changes in investment values attributable to interest rate changes are mitigated by corresponding and partially offsetting changes in the economic value of our insurance reserves and debt obligations. We monitor this exposure through periodic reviews of our asset and liability positions. The following table shows the impact on the market value of our fixed income portfolio of an increase in interest rates of 100 bps applied instantly across the yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario) at December 31, 2007 and 2006. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 Fair value of fixed income portfolio $ 38,830 $ 34,011 Pre tax impact of 100 bps increase in interest rates $ 1,281 $ 1,062 Percentage of total fixed income portfolio at fair value 3.3% 3.1% Changes in interest rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Although our debt, Preferred Shares, and trust preferred securities (collectively referred to as debt obligations) are reported at amortized value and not adjusted for fair value changes, changes in interest rates could have a material impact on their fair value, albeit there is no immediate impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table shows the impact on the market value of our debt obligations of a decrease in interest rates of 100 bps applied instantly across the yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario) at December 31, 2007 and 2006. 80 Table of Contents (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 Fair value of debt obligations $ 3,120 $ 3,219 Impact of 100 bps decrease in interest rates $ 236 $ 257 Percentage of total debt obligations at fair value 7.6% 8.0% Variations in market interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of prepayments due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual results could differ from those reflected in the tables. Equity price risk equity portfolio Our portfolio of equity securities, which we carry on our balance sheet at fair value, has exposure to price risk. This risk is defined as the potential loss in fair value resulting from adverse changes in stock prices. In addition, we attain exposure to the equity markets through the use of derivative instruments, which also have exposure to price risk. Our U.S. equity portfolio is correlated with the S&P 500 index and changes in that index would approximate the impact on our portfolio. Our international equity portfolio has exposure to a broad range of non U.S. equity markets. The following table provides more information on our exposure to equity price risk at December 31, 2007 and 2006. (millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 Fair value of equity securities $ 1,837 $ 1,713 Pre tax impact of 10 percent decline in market prices for equity exposures $ 184 $ 171 Changes in the fair value of our equity portfolio are recorded as unrealized appreciation (depreciation) and are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. Foreign currency exchange rate risk Many of our non U.S. companies maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Therefore, foreign exchange rate risk is generally limited to net assets denominated in those foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. Locally required capital levels are invested in home currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk for us are the British pound sterling, the euro, and the Canadian dollar. The following table provides more information on our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk at December 31, 2007 and 2006. (millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 Fair value of net assets denominated in foreign currencies $ 1,651 $ 1,251 Percentage of fair value of total net assets 9.9% 8.8% Pre tax impact on equity of hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the U.S. dollar $ 150 $ 114 Reinsurance of GMDB and GMIB guarantees Our net income is directly impacted by changes in the reserves calculated in connection with the reinsurance of variable annuity guarantees, primarily GMDB and GMIB. These reserves are calculated in accordance with SOP 03 1 and changes in these reserves are reflected as life and annuity benefit expense, which is included in life underwriting income. In addition, our net income is directly impacted by the change in the fair value of the GMIB liability, which is classified as a derivative according to FAS 133. The fair value liability established for a GMIB reinsurance contract represents the difference between the fair value of the contract and the SOP 03 1 reserves. Changes in the fair value of the GMIB liability, net of associated changes in the calculated SOP 03 1 reserve, are reflected as realized gains or losses. The SOP 03 1 reserve and fair value liability calculations are directly affected by market factors, the most significant of which are equity levels, interest rate levels, and implied equity volatilities. The table below shows the sensitivity, as of December 31, 2007, of the SOP 03 1 reserves and fair value liability associated with the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. Note that the change in the fair value liability includes offsetting changes in the fair value of specific derivative instruments held to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. These derivatives do not receive hedge accounting treatment. 81 Table of Contents (in millions of U.S. dollars) 10% WorldwideEquity Decrease Impact of 100bp Decrease inInterest Rates Long termEquity ImpliedVolatility Up 2% Increase in SOP 03 1 reserves / Reduction in Life underwriting income $ 52 $ 12 $ Increase in fair value liability 27 122 24 Reduction in net income $ 79 $ 134 $ 24 The table above demonstrates, for example, that a 10 percent decrease in worldwide equities would reduce our life underwriting income by $52 million and cause a net realized loss of $27 million, for a total reduction in net income of $79 million. It should be noted that these sensitivities are not directly additive, because changes in one factor will affect the sensitivity to changes in other factors and also, that the sensitivities do not scale linearly and may be proportionally greater for larger movements in the market factors. The calculation of the SOP 03 1 reserve and fair value liability is based on internal models that include assumptions regarding future policyholder behavior, including withdrawal, annuitization, and asset allocation. These assumptions impact both the absolute level of the SOP 03 1 reserve and fair value liability as well as the sensitivities to changes in market factors shown above. ACE views our variable annuity reinsurance business as having a similar risk profile to that of catastrophe reinsurance, with the probability of long term economic loss relatively small. In the short run, adverse changes in market factors will have an impact on both life underwriting income and net income. When evaluating these risks, we expect to be compensated for taking both the risk of a cumulative long term economic net loss, as well as the short term accounting variations caused by these market movements. Therefore, we evaluate this business in terms of its long term economic risk/reward. The ultimate risk is a long term underperformance of investment returns, which can be exacerbated by a long term reduction in interest rates. In the short run, adverse market movements of the magnitude shown above do not translate immediately into a large increase in paid claims. In addition, while they do increase the probability of suffering long term economic loss, the probability is still small. Following a market downturn, continued market underperformance over a period of five to seven years would eventually result in a higher level of paid claims as policyholders accessed their guarantees through death or annuitization. However, if market conditions improved following a downturn, SOP 03 1 reserves and fair value liability would fall reflecting a decreased likelihood of future claims, which would result in an increase in both life underwriting income and net income. From inception (July 2000) to December 31, 2007, the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio has produced the following cumulative results, along with returns on equity in excess of 30 percent. Any increase in SOP 03 1 reserves and fair value liability should be taken in context of these results: Net premiums earned: $786 million Claims paid: $32 million SOP 03 1 reserves held at December 31, 2007: $198 million Fair value GMIB liability held at December 31, 2007: $157 million Life underwriting income: $581 million Net Income: $390 million 82 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity and capital resources as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Overview ACE Limited (ACE) is a Bermuda based holding company incorporated with limited liability under the Cayman Islands Companies Law. ACE and its direct and indirect subsidiaries are a global property and casualty (P&C) insurance and reinsurance organization, servicing the insurance needs of commercial and individual customers in more than 140 countries and jurisdictions. Our product and geographic diversification differentiates us from the vast majority of our competitors and has been a source of stability during periods of industry volatility. Our long term business strategy focuses on sustained growth in book value achieved through a combination of underwriting and investment income. By doing so, we provide value to our clients and shareholders through the utilization of our substantial capital base in the insurance and reinsurance markets. Our senior management team is well seasoned in the insurance industry and its attention to operational efficiency, maintaining balance sheet strength, and enforcing strong underwriting and financial discipline across the whole organization has laid the foundation for sustained earnings and book value growth. We are organized along a profit center structure by line of business and territory that does not necessarily correspond to corporate legal entities. Profit centers can access various legal entities, subject to licensing and other regulatory rules. Profit centers are expected to generate underwriting income and appropriate risk adjusted returns. This corporate structure has facilitated the development of management talent by giving each profit centers senior management team the necessary autonomy within underwriting authorities to make operating decisions and create products and coverages needed by its target customer base. We are an underwriting organization and senior management is focused on delivering underwriting profit. We strive to achieve underwriting income by only writing policies which we believe adequately compensate us for the risk we accept. We will not sacrifice underwriting income for growth. Distinction in service is an additional area of focus and a means to set us apart from our competition. As an insurance and reinsurance company, we generate gross revenues from two principal sources: premiums and investment income. Cash flow is generated from premiums collected and investment income received less paid losses and loss expenses, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses. Invested assets are generally held in liquid, investment grade fixed income securities of relatively short duration. We invest in equity securities in the U.S. and international markets. A small portion of our assets are held in less liquid or higher risk assets in an attempt to achieve higher risk adjusted returns. Claims payments in any short term period are highly unpredictable due to the random nature of loss events and the timing of claims awards or settlements. The value of investments held to pay future claims is subject to market forces such as the level of interest rates, stock market volatility, and credit events such as corporate defaults. The actual cost of claims is also volatile based on loss trends, inflation rates, court awards, and catastrophes. We believe that our cash balance, our highly liquid investments, credit facilities, and reinsurance protection provide sufficient liquidity to meet any unforeseen claim demands that might occur in the year ahead. On December 14, 2007, we entered into a stock purchase agreement with Aon Corporation, pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase all the outstanding shares of capital stock of Combined Insurance Company of America (Combined) and fourteen Combined subsidiaries. The all cash purchase price is $2.4 billion, subject to certain post closing adjustments. Combined, which was founded in 1919 and is headquartered in Glenview, Illinois, is a leading underwriter and distributor of specialty individual accident and supplemental health insurance products that are targeted to middle income consumers in the U.S., Europe, Canada, and Asia Pacific. Combined serves more than four million policyholders worldwide. We expect this transaction to be completed during the second quarter of 2008. We believe that this acquisition will add balance and capability to our existing accident and health (A&H) business and offers meaningful opportunity for future revenue and earnings growth. Outlook The insurance industry is highly competitive with many companies offering similar coverage. The rates and terms and conditions related to the products we offer have historically changed depending on the timing of the insurance cycle. During periods of excess underwriting capacity, as defined by availability of capital, competition can result in lower pricing and less favorable terms and conditions. Pricing and terms and conditions are generally more favorable during periods of reduced underwriting capacity. 34 Table of Contents The P&C industry is currently in a period of excess underwriting capacity and, as a result, prices are declining globally. The rate of decline is accelerating in some classes and staying relatively flat in others. Overall, the market continues to become more competitive and, given these conditions, we are focused on maintaining the levels of our renewals and writing less new business. This is reflected in our net premiums written which decreased slightly in 2007, compared with 2006. Despite this downward trend, we continue to see opportunity to expand our P&C business in the short and longer term in many places as we adapt our business to take advantage of the macroeconomic trends (and the risks that accompany them) taking place around the world. With considerable balance sheet strength, we also have the ability to grow both organically and opportunistically though acquisitions. Our A&H business continues to do well, growing 18 percent in 2007, compared with 2006. We continue to see good long term opportunity to grow our A&H franchise, particularly in the developing markets of Asia Pacific and Latin America, among other territories. Our life insurance and reinsurance business also had a very good year and together with A&H and the addition of Combined will represent close to 23 percent of our net premiums earned, on a pro forma basis. The financial markets crisis, which was triggered by defaults of sub prime mortgages in the third quarter of 2007, continues to dominate the landscape and is spreading to other forms of credit and beyond the U.S. This is contributing to a significant slowdown in the U.S. economy, and possibly recession, and we believe this will have a global impact. At the same time, there is the specter of inflation, and efforts to stimulate the U.S. economy may well increase the risk of inflation. Inflation and recession can have an impact on P&C operating results (particularly revenue) and claims frequency and severity. The financial and economic conditions are deteriorating in the face of a soft and softening global P&C market. We are adjusting quickly to ensure all levels of our underwriting organization, with the support of our claims and actuarial groups, focus on and manage risk with a clear recognition of the environment. On the asset side of the balance sheet, our conservative investment posture has served us well. Our exposure to sub prime asset backed securities was $135 million at December 31, 2007, which represented less than one percent of our investment portfolio. Refer to Investments for more information. On the liability side of the balance sheet, the sub prime crisis will be a sizable casualty event for the commercial P&C industry and particularly for those who have significant financial institution exposure. While we are underwriters of financial institution D&O and E&O business, it is not a significant part of our portfolio. In fact, we are relatively modest participants in this segment of the market. We estimate the size of the financial institutions market for D&O and E&O to be approximately $3 $4 billion in gross premiums written. ACE writes approximately $188 million of gross premiums in connection with U.S. exposed business which gives us less than a four percent market share. Our net premiums written are $143 million and our average net limit is $7.7 million for D&O and $3.2 million for E&O. All of the business is claims made, where determination of coverage is triggered by the date the insured first becomes aware of a claim or potential claim, and all legal defense expenses incurred by the insurer in defending the insured are covered under the policy. We may have losses from sub prime related events, and we have reflected that in our 2007 loss and loss expense ratios as appropriate.  Insurance Industry Investigations and Related Matters Information on the insurance industry investigations and related matters is set forth in Note 9 f) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. Critical Accounting Estimates Our Consolidated Financial Statements include amounts that, either by their nature or due to requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), are determined using best estimates and assumptions. While we believe that the amounts included in our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect our best judgment, actual amounts could ultimately materially differ from those currently presented. We believe the items that require the most subjective and complex estimates are: unpaid loss and loss expense reserves, including asbestos and environmental (A&E) reserves; reinsurance recoverable, including a provision for uncollectible reinsurance; impairments to the carrying value of our investment portfolio; the valuation of deferred tax assets; the valuation of derivative instruments related to guaranteed minimum income benefits (GMIB); the valuation of goodwill; and the assessment of risk transfer for certain structured insurance and reinsurance contracts. We believe our accounting policies for these items are of critical importance to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion provides more information regarding the estimates and assumptions required to arrive at these amounts and should be read in conjunction with the sections entitled: Prior Period Development, Asbestos and Environmental 35 Table of Contents and Other Run off Liabilities, Reinsurance Recoverable on Ceded Reinsurance, Investments, Net Realized Gains (Losses), and Other Income and Expense Items. Unpaid losses and loss expenses As an insurance and reinsurance company, we are required, by applicable laws and regulations and GAAP, to establish loss and loss expense reserves for the estimated unpaid portion of the ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses under the terms of our policies and agreements with our insured and reinsured customers. The estimate of the liabilities includes provision for claims that have been reported but unpaid at the balance sheet date (case reserves) and for future obligations from claims that have been incurred but not reported (IBNR) at the balance sheet date (IBNR may also include a provision for additional development on reported claims in instances where the case reserve is viewed to be insufficient). The reserves provide for liabilities on the premium earned on policies as of the balance sheet date. The loss reserve also includes an estimate of expenses associated with processing and settling these unpaid claims (loss expenses). At December 31, 2007, our unpaid loss and loss expense reserves were $37.1 billion. With the exception of certain structured settlements, for which the timing and amount of future claim payments are reliably determinable, our loss reserves are not discounted for time value. In connection with such structured settlements, we carry reserves of $117 million (net of discount). The table below presents a roll forward of our unpaid losses and loss expenses for the indicated periods. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Losses Reinsurance Recoverable Net Losses Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 35,055 $ 14,597 $ 20,458 Losses and loss expenses incurred 9,902 2,832 7,070 Losses and loss expenses paid (9,230) (3,771) (5,459) Sale of certain run off reinsurance subsidiaries (789) (317) (472) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) 579 168 411 Balance at December 31, 2006 35,517 $ 13,509 $ 22,008 Losses and loss expenses incurred 10,831 3,480 7,351 Losses and loss expenses paid (9,516) (3,582) (5,934) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) 280 113 167 Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 37,112 $ 13,520 $ 23,592 The process of establishing loss reserves for property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments based on circumstances known at the date of accrual. The following table shows our total reserves segregated between case reserves (including loss expense reserves) and IBNR reserves at December 31, 2007 and 2006. 2007 2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Case reserves $ 15,625 $ 6,077 $ 9,548 $ 15,592 $ 6,135 $ 9,457 IBNR 21,487 7,443 14,044 19,925 7,374 12,551 Total $ 37,112 $ 13,520 $ 23,592 $ 35,517 $ 13,509 $ 22,008 36 Table of Contents The following table segregates the loss reserves by line of business including property and all other, casualty, and personal accident (A&H) at December 31, 2007 and 2006. In the table, loss expenses are defined to include unallocated and allocated loss adjustment expenses. For certain lines, in particular ACE International and ACE Bermuda products, loss adjustment expenses are included in IBNR and not in loss expenses. 2007 2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Ceded Net Gross Ceded Net Property and all other Case reserves $ 2,901 $ 1,256 $ 1,645 $ 3,137 $ 1,306 $ 1,831 Loss expenses 230 55 175 167 34 133 IBNR 2,824 1,095 1,729 2,509 979 1,530 Subtotal 5,955 2,406 3,549 5,813 2,319 3,494 Casualty Case reserves 8,747 3,150 5,597 8,889 3,255 5,634 Loss expenses 3,348 1,544 1,804 3,023 1,469 1,554 IBNR 18,070 6,193 11,877 16,926 6,268 10,658 Subtotal 30,165 10,887 19,278 28,838 10,992 17,846 A&H Case reserves 370 68 302 351 69 282 Loss expenses 29 4 25 25 2 23 IBNR 593 155 438 490 127 363 Subtotal 992 227 765 866 198 668 Total Case reserves 12,018 4,474 7,544 12,377 4,630 7,747 Loss expenses 3,607 1,603 2,004 3,215 1,505 1,710 IBNR 21,487 7,443 14,044 19,925 7,374 12,551 Total $ 37,112 $ 13,520 $ 23,592 $ 35,517 $ 13,509 $ 22,008 The judgments used to estimate unpaid loss and loss expense reserves require different considerations depending upon the individual circumstances underlying the insured loss. For example, the reserves established for an excess casualty claim, A&E claims, losses from major catastrophic events, or the IBNR for product lines will each require different assumptions and judgments to be made. Necessary judgments are based on numerous factors and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methodologies are developed, or as current laws change. Hence, ultimate loss payments will differ from the estimate of the ultimate liability made at the balance sheet date. Changes to our previous estimates of prior period loss reserves can impact the reported calendar year underwriting results by worsening our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be deficient or improving our reported results if the prior year reserves prove to be redundant. The potential for variation in loss reserves is impacted by numerous factors, which we explain below. We establish loss and loss expense reserves to reflect our liabilities from claims for all of the insurance and reinsurance business that we write. For those claims reported by insureds or ceding companies to us prior to the balance sheet date, case reserves are established by claims personnel as appropriate based on the circumstances of the claim(s), standard claim handling practices, and professional judgment. In respect of those claims that have been incurred but not reported prior to the balance sheet date, there is by definition limited actual information to form the reserve estimate and reliance is placed upon historical loss experience and actuarial methods to project the ultimate loss obligations and the corresponding amount of IBNR. Furthermore, for our assumed reinsurance operation, Global Reinsurance, an additional case reserve may sometimes be established above the amount notified by the ceding company if the notified case reserve is judged to be insufficient by Global Reinsurances claims department (refer to Assumed reinsurance below). We have actuarial staff within each of our operating segments who analyze loss reserves and regularly project estimates of ultimate losses and the required IBNR reserve. IBNR reserve estimates are generally calculated by first projecting the ultimate amount of expected claims for a product line and subtracting paid losses and case reserves for reported claims. The judgments involved in projecting the ultimate losses may involve the use and interpretation of various actuarial projection methods as well 37 Table of Contents as more qualitative factors that may impact the ultimate value of the losses such as actual loss experience, loss development patterns, and industry data. In addition, since standard actuarial projection methods place reliance on the extrapolation of historical data and patterns, the estimate of the IBNR reserve also requires judgment by actuaries and management to consider the impact from more contemporary and subjective factors. Among some of the factors that might be considered are changes in business mix or volume, changes in ceded reinsurance structures, reported and projected loss trends, inflation, legal environment, and the terms and conditions of the contracts sold to our insured parties. Finally, adjustments may be required to ensure that the derived IBNR reflects the exposure arising on the earned portion of premium as at the balance sheet date. Typically, for each product line, one or more standard actuarial reserving methods may be used to estimate ultimate losses and loss expenses and from these estimates a single actuarial provisional estimate is selected. Exceptions to the use of standard actuarial projection methods occur for individual claims of significance that require complex legal, claims, and actuarial analysis and judgment (i.e., A&E account projections or high excess casualty accounts in litigation). In addition, claims arising from catastrophic events require evaluation based upon our exposure at the time of the event and the circumstances of the catastrophe and its post event impact that do not utilize standard actuarial loss projection methods. The standard actuarial reserving methods may include, but are not necessarily limited to, paid and reported loss development, expected loss ratio, and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. A general description of these methods is provided below. In the subsequent discussion on short and long tail business, reference is also made where appropriate to how consideration in method selection impacted 2007 results. In addition to these standard methods, we may use other recognized actuarial methods and approaches depending upon the product line characteristics and available data. To ensure that the projections of future loss emergence from historical loss development patterns are representative of the underlying business, the historical loss and premium data is required to be of sufficient homogeneity and credibility. For example, to improve data homogeneity, we may group product line data further by similar risk attribute (e.g., geography, coverage such as property versus liability exposure, or origin year), project losses for these homogenous groups and then combine these results to provide the overall product line estimate. The premium and loss data is aggregated by origin year (e.g., the year in which the losses were incurred or accident year) and annual or quarterly periods subsequent to the origin year. Implicit in the standard accepted actuarial methodologies that we generally utilize is the need for two fundamental assumptions: first, the expected loss ratio for each origin year (i.e., accident, report, or underwriting) and second, the pattern in which losses are expected to emerge over time for each origin year. The expected loss ratio for any particular origin year is selected giving consideration to a number of potential factors including historical loss ratios adjusted for intervening premium and loss trends, industry benchmarks, the results of policy level loss modeling at the time of underwriting, and other more subjective considerations of the product line and external environment as noted above. For the more recent origin years, the expected loss ratio for a given origin year is established at the start of the origin year as part of the planning process. This analysis is performed in conjunction with underwriters and management. The expected loss ratio method arrives at an ultimate loss estimate by taking this estimate of the initial expected ultimate loss ratio and multiplying by the corresponding premium base. This method is most commonly used for immature origin periods on product lines where the actual paid or reported loss experience is not yet credible enough to override our initial expectations of the ultimate loss ratio. In addition, the expected loss ratio may be modified should underlying assumptions such as loss trend or premium rate changes differ from the original assumptions. Our assumed paid and reported development patterns provide a benchmark against which the actual emerging loss experience can be monitored. Where possible, development patterns are selected based on historical loss emergence by origin year with appropriate allowance for changes in business mix, claims handling process, or ceded reinsurance that are likely to lead to a discernible difference between the rate of historical and future loss emergence. For product lines where the historical data is viewed to have low statistical credibility, the selected development patterns will also reflect relevant industry benchmarks and or experience from similar product lines written elsewhere within ACE. This typically arises for product lines that are relatively immature or with high severity/low frequency portfolios and for which our historical experience exhibits considerable volatility and or lacks credibility. The paid and reported loss development methods convert the assumed loss emergence pattern to a set of multiplicative factors which are then applied to actual paid or reported losses to arrive at an estimate of ultimate losses for each period. Due to their multiplicative nature, the paid and reported loss development methods magnify deviations between actual and expected loss emergence. Therefore, these methods tend to be favored for more mature origin periods and for those portfolios where the loss emergence has been relatively consistent over time. The Bornhuetter Ferguson method is essentially a combination of the expected loss ratio method and the loss development method, under which the loss development method is given more weight as the origin year matures. This approach allows a logical transition between the expected loss ratio method which is generally utilized at earlier maturities and the loss 38 Table of Contents development methods which are favored at latter maturities. We usually apply this method using reported loss data although paid data may be used. The applicability of reserve methods will also be determined by the attachment point of the policy or contract with the insured or ceding company. In the case of low attachment points typical of primary or working layer reinsurance, the experience will tend to be more frequency driven. These product types allow for the standard actuarial methods to be used in determining loss reserve levels, as it is often customary to have the appropriate historical record and volume of claims experience to rely upon. In the case of high attachment points typical of excess insurance or excess of loss reinsurance, the experience will tend to be severity driven, as only a loss of significant size will enter the layer. For structured or unique contracts, most common to the financial solutions business (which we have ceased writing) and, to a lesser extent, our reinsurance business, the standard actuarial methods need to be tempered with an analysis of each contracts terms, original pricing information, subsequent internal and external analyses of the ongoing contracts, market exposures and history, and qualitative input from claims managers. Our recorded reserves represent managements best estimate of the provision for unpaid claims as of the balance sheet date. Each product line has an actuarial reserve review performed and an actuarial provisional estimate is established at the reviews conclusion. The process to select the actuarial provisional estimate, when more than one estimate is available, may differ across product lines. For example, an actuary may base the provisional estimate on loss projections developed using an incurred loss development approach instead of a paid loss development approach when reported losses are viewed to be a more credible indication of the ultimate loss compared with paid losses. The availability of estimates by different projection techniques will depend upon the product line, the underwriting circumstances, and the maturity of the loss emergence. For a well established product line with sufficient volume and history, the actuarial provisional estimate may be drawn from a weighting of paid and reported loss development and or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. However, for a new long tail product line for which we have limited data and experience or a rapidly growing line, the emerging loss experience will unlikely have sufficient stability to allow selection of loss development or Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and reliance will be placed upon the initial expected loss ratio method as the actuarial provisional estimate until the experience matures. The actuarial provisional estimate is then developed into managements best estimate with collaboration with underwriting, claims, legal, and finance departments and culminates with the input of reserve committees. Each business unit reserve committee includes the participation of the relevant parties from actuarial, finance, claims, and executive management and has the responsibility for finalizing and approving the estimate to be used as managements best estimate. Reserves are further reviewed by ACEs Chief Actuary and senior management. The objective of such a process is to determine a single estimate that we believe represents a better estimate than any other. Such an estimate is viewed by management to support the most likely outcome of ultimate loss settlements and is determined based on several factors including, but not limited to: Segmentation of data to provide sufficient homogeneity and credibility for loss projection methods; Extent of internal historical loss data, and industry where required; Historical variability of loss estimates compared with actual loss experience; Perceived credibility of emerged loss experience; and Nature and extent of underlying assumptions. Management does not build in any specific provision for uncertainty. We do not calculate a range of loss reserve estimates for our individual loss reserve studies. In particular, ranges are not necessarily a true reflection of the potential volatility between loss reserves estimated at the balance sheet date and the ultimate settlement value of losses. This is due to the fact that an actuarial range is developed based on known events as of the valuation date whereas actual volatility or prior period development has historically been reported in subsequent Consolidated Financial Statements, in part from events and circumstances that were unknown as of the original valuation date. While we believe that our recorded reserves are reasonable and represent managements best estimate for each product line as of the current valuation date, future changes to our view of the ultimate liabilities are possible. A five percent change in our net loss reserves equates to $1.1 billion and represents 37 percent of our net income before taxes for 2007 and seven percent of shareholders equity at December 31, 2007. Historically, including A&E reserve charges, our reserves, at times, have developed in excess of 10 percent of recorded amounts. Refer to Analysis of Losses and Loss Expense Development, under Item 1 for a summary of historical volatility between estimated loss reserves and ultimate loss settlements. We perform internal loss reserve studies for all product lines at least once a year; the timing of such studies varies throughout the year. External loss reserve studies are performed periodically and are compared to our internal results. Additionally, each quarter for each product line, we review the emergence of actual losses relative to expectations used in reserving. If warranted from findings in loss emergence tests, we will accelerate the timing of our product line reserve studies. Finally, external loss reserve studies are performed annually and are compared to our internal results to ensure reasonability of internal findings. 39 Table of Contents The time period between the date of loss occurrence and the final payment date of the ensuing claim(s) is referred to as the claim tail. The following is a discussion of specific reserving considerations for both short tail and long tail product lines. In this section, we reference the nature of recent prior period development to give a high level understanding of how these considerations translate through the reserving process into financial decisions. Refer to Segment Operating Results for more information on prior period development. Short tail business Short tail business generally describes product lines for which losses are usually known and paid shortly after the loss actually occurs. This would include, for example, most property, personal accident, aviation hull, and automobile physical damage policies that are written. There are some exceptions on certain product lines (e.g., workers compensation catastrophe) or events (e.g., major hurricanes) where the event has occurred, but the final settlement amount is highly variable and not known with certainty for a potentially lengthy period. Due to the short reporting development pattern for these product lines, our estimate of ultimate losses from any particular accident period responds quickly to the latest loss data. We will typically assign credibility to methods that incorporate actual loss emergence, such as the paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, sooner than would be the case for long tail lines at a similar stage of development from the origin year. The reserving process for short tail losses arising from catastrophic events typically involves the determination by the claims department, in conjunction with underwriters and actuaries, of our exposure and likely losses immediately following an event and the subsequent regular refinement of those losses as our insureds provide updated actual loss information. For the 2007 accident year, the short tail line loss reserves were typically established using the expected loss ratio method for the non catastrophe exposures. In addition, reserves were also established for losses arising on catastrophe activity during 2007. The underlying calculation for the non catastrophe portion requires initial expected loss ratios by product line, as adjusted for actual experience during the progression of the 2007 calendar year. As previously noted, the derivation of initial loss ratios incorporates actuarial assumptions on projections of prior years loss experience, past and future loss, and exposure trends, rate adequacy of new and renewal business, and ceded reinsurance costs. In addition, we considered our view of terms and conditions and the market environment, which by their nature tend to be more judgmental relative to other factors. For our short tail businesses taken as a whole, overall loss trend assumptions have not differed significantly relative to prior years. Because there is some random volatility of non catastrophe loss experience from year to year, we considered average loss experience over several years when developing loss estimates for the current accident year. Therefore, while there has been favorable loss development in recent years on non catastrophe exposures, the effect of this favorable development on expected loss ratios for the current accident year is relatively small. Further, other considerations, such as rate reductions and broadening of terms and conditions in a competitive market somewhat offset this favorable effect. In terms of prior accident years, the bulk of changes made in the 2007 calendar year arose from the 2006 and 2005 accident years. Specifically, the Insurance Overseas General segment experienced $121 million of favorable development due to lower than anticipated loss emergence on the 2005 and 2006 accident years and the Insurance North American segment experienced $115 million of adverse development related to 2004 and 2005 catastrophes. In both instances, these prior period movements were primarily the result of changes to the ultimate loss estimates for the respective 2004 to 2006 accident years to better reflect the latest reported loss data rather than any changes to underlying actuarial assumptions such as loss development patterns. The process used to establish the 2007 year end reserves for the 2004 and 2005 catastrophes involved a detailed review by the claims department of the causation and coverage issues of each underlying claim. Given the unique circumstances around the events, historical trends and loss development patterns are not applicable. As discussed in the prior period development discussions under Segment Operating Results, the actual claims experience was worse than anticipated and, as such, the ultimate loss estimates were revised to reflect that loss emergence. For the reserves covering the non catastrophe related exposures in the 2006 and prior accident years, the change in ultimate loss reflected recognition of actual favorable loss emergence rather than explicit changes to assumptions on the loss development patterns to project future loss emergence. The actual non catastrophe related loss emergence over 2005 2007 calendar years has been favorable but within a range of expected outcomes and the experience from these years was considered when establishing the expectation of 2007 accident year losses. For a detailed analysis of changes in assumptions related to prior accident year reserves during calendar year 2007, refer to Prior Period Development. 40 Table of Contents Long tail business Long tail business describes lines of business for which specific losses may not be known for some period and claims can take significant time to emerge. This includes most casualty lines such as general liability, directors and officers liability (D&O) and workers compensation. There are many factors contributing to the uncertainty and volatility of long tail business. Among these are: Our historical loss data and experience is often too immature and lacking in credibility to place reliance upon for reserving purposes. Instead, we place reliance in our reserve methods on industry loss ratios or industry benchmark development patterns that are anticipated to reflect the nature and coverage of the underwritten business and its future development. For such product lines, actual loss experience is apt to differ from industry loss statistics that are based on averages as well as loss experience of previous underwriting years; The inherent uncertainty around loss trends, claims inflation (e.g., medical and judicial) and underlying economic conditions; The inherent uncertainty of the estimated duration of the paid and reporting loss development patterns beyond the historical record requires that professional judgment be used in the determination of the length of the patterns based on the historical data and other information; The inherent uncertainty of assuming historical paid and reported loss development patterns on older origin years will be representative of subsequent loss emergence on newer origin years. For example, changes in establishing case reserves can distort reported loss development patterns or changes in ceded reinsurance structures by origin year can distort the development of paid and reported losses; The possibility of future litigation, legislative or judicial change that might impact future loss experience relative to prior loss experience relied upon in loss reserve analyses; Loss reserve analyses typically require loss or other data be grouped by common characteristics in some manner. If data from two combined lines of business exhibit different characteristics, such as loss payment patterns, the credibility of the reserve estimate could be affected. Additionally, since casualty lines of business can have significant intricacies in the terms and conditions afforded to the insured, there is an inherent risk as to the homogeneity of the underlying data used in performing reserve analyses; and The applicability of the price change data used to estimate ultimate loss ratios for most recent origin years. As can be seen from the above, various factors are considered when determining appropriate data, assumptions, and methods used to establish the loss reserve for the long tail product lines. These factors will also vary by origin year for given product lines. The derivation of loss development patterns from data and the selection of a tail factor to project ultimate losses from actual loss emergence require considerable judgment, particularly with respect to the extent of historical loss experience that provides credible support to changes in key reserving assumptions. Examples of the relationship between changes in historical loss experience and key reserving assumptions are provided below. For those long tail product lines that are less claim frequency and more claim severity oriented, such as professional lines and high excess casualty, we placed more reliance upon expert legal and claims review of the specific circumstance underlying reported cases rather than loss development patterns. The assumptions used for these lines of business were updated in response to new claim and legal advice judged to be of significance. For the 2007 accident year, loss reserves were typically established through the application of individual product line initial expected loss ratios that require contemplation of assumptions similar in nature to those noted in the short tail line discussion. Our assumptions on loss trend and development patterns reflect reliance on our historical loss data provided the length of history and homogeneity afford credibility. Given the recent growth on a number of product lines, such as general casualty and financial lines, our historical loss data is less extensive and our assumptions require judgmental use of industry loss trends and development patterns. We note that industry patterns are not always available to match the nature of the business being written; this issue is particularly problematic for non U.S. exposed lines. Given the underlying volatility of the long tail product lines and the lengthy period required for full paid and reported loss emergence, we typically assign little to no credibility to actual loss emergence in the recent development periods. Accordingly, we generally used the initial expected loss ratio method for the 2007 and immediately preceding origin years to establish reserves by product line. We monitor actual paid and reported loss emergence with expected loss emergence for each key individual product line. While recent experience has generally been favorable relative to our internal expectations, we do not yet believe experience is sufficiently credible for us to consider moving to loss based projection methods in setting reserves. Our best estimate based on information received to date for our 2007 loss ratios reflect what we believe is our exposure to sub prime losses (E&O and D&O). Given the nature of long tail casualty business and related reserving considerations, for the major long tail lines in Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, and Global Reinsurance, no changes of significance were made to 41 Table of Contents the key actuarial assumptions for the loss trend (aside from changes to inflation assumptions), exposure trend, and loss development patterns used to establish the 2007 accident year reserves relative to prior accident years. Typically for the 2004 2006 accident years, to the extent that actual loss emergence in calendar year 2007 differed from our expectation in the more recent origin years, the deviation was not seen as sufficiently credible, particularly given the volatility and lengthy period for full loss emergence, to alter either our booked ultimate loss selections or the set of actuarial assumptions underlying the reserving review for that particular portfolio. Such judgments were made with due consideration to the factors impacting reserve uncertainty as discussed above. However, for some product lines, credibility was assigned to emerging loss experience and this is discussed further below and in the section entitled Prior Period Development. For more mature accident years, typically 2003 and prior, we used paid and reported loss patterns in the reserve setting process on older accident years where sufficient credibility existed. For those lines lacking data credibility, we placed reliance upon the latest benchmark patterns (where available) from external industry bodies such as Insurance Services Office (ISO) or the National Council on Compensation Insurance, Inc. (NCCI). Accordingly, the assumptions used to project loss estimates will not fully reflect our own actual loss experience until credibility is determined. In contrast to short tail lines, the prior period development in 2007 for long tail lines of business arose across a number of accident years in the Insurance North American and Insurance Overseas General segments, typically more removed from the recent accident years. The movements were generally the result of actual loss emergence in calendar year 2007 that differed materially from the expected loss emergence and these deviations were significant enough in certain product lines to warrant revising the projections. The nature of the assumptions altered in 2007, and impacting the prior accident years, varies by the specifics of each product line. For example, in Insurance North American the alterations to estimates for national account casualty and workers compensation lines involved retaining the original paid and reported loss development assumptions but assigning greater credibility to actual loss experience; i.e. more weight was given to paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods rather than the expected loss ratio methods on the 2002 2004 accident years. This resulted in $21 million favorable development and $28 million adverse development for the casualty and workers compensation lines, respectively. Similarly, for Insurance Overseas General, there was $23 million of favorable development on the 2003 2005 accident years as more weight was given to paid and reported loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods rather than the expected loss ratio methods. In addition, an update of our detailed annual evaluation of the excess exposures at Insurance Overseas General resulted in net favorable prior period development of $20 million which comprised strengthening of $89 million in accident years 2003 and prior and $45 million in accident year 2006 and a release of $154 million in accident years 2004 and 2005. While we believe our reserve for unpaid losses and loss expenses at December 31, 2007, is adequate, new information or emerging trends different from assumptions may lead to future developments in ultimate losses and loss expenses significantly greater or less than the reserve provided, which could have a material effect on future operating results. As noted previously, our best estimate of required loss reserves for most portfolios is judgmentally selected for each origin year after considering the results from any number of reserving methodologies rather than being a purely mechanical process. Therefore, it is difficult to convey, in a simple and quantitative manner, the impact that a change to a single assumption will have on our best estimate. In the examples shown below, we attempt to give an indication of the potential impact by isolating a single change for a specific reserving method that would be pertinent in establishing the best estimate for the product line described. We consider each of the following sensitivity analyses to represent a reasonably likely deviation in the underlying assumption. Insurance North American Given the long reporting and paid development pattern, the tail factors used to project actual current losses to ultimate losses for claims covered by our inactive middle market workers compensation business requires considerable judgment that could be material to consolidated loss and loss expense reserves. Specifically, when applying the paid loss development method, a one percent change in the tail factor (i.e., 1.04 changed to either 1.05 or 1.03) would cause a change of approximately $46 million, either positively or negatively, for the projected net loss and loss expense reserves. This is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $285 million. Our ACE Bermuda operations write predominantly high excess liability coverage on an occurrence first reported basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $300 million and limits of $100 million gross or less) and D&O and other professional liability coverage on a claims made basis (typically with attachment points in excess of $100 million and limits of $50 million gross or less). Claims development for this business can vary significantly for individual claims and historically could vary by as much as $50 million per claim for professional liability and $100 million per claim for excess liability depending on the nature of the loss. 42 Table of Contents Insurance Overseas General Certain long tail lines, such as casualty and professional lines, are particularly susceptible to changes in loss trend and claim inflation. Heightened perceptions of tort and settlement awards around the world are increasing the demand for these products as well as contributing to the uncertainty of the reserving estimates. Our reserving methods rely on loss development patterns estimated from historical data and while we attempt to adjust such factors for known changes in the current tort environment, it is possible that such factors may not entirely reflect all recent trends in tort environments. For example, when applying the reported loss development method, the lengthening by six months of our selected loss development patterns would increase reserve estimates on long tail casualty and professional lines by approximately $271 million. This movement is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $3.4 billion. Global Reinsurance Typically, there is inherent uncertainty around the length of paid and reporting development patterns, especially for certain casualty lines such as excess workers compensation or general liability, which may take up to 30 years to fully develop. This uncertainty is accentuated by the need to supplement client development patterns with industry development patterns as justified by the credibility of the data. The underlying source and selection of the final development pattern can thus have a significant impact on the selected net losses and loss expenses ultimate. For example, a twenty percent shortening or lengthening of the development patterns used for U.S. long tail lines would cause the loss reserve estimate derived by the reported Bornhuetter Ferguson method for these lines to change by approximately $140 million. This movement is relative to recorded net loss and loss expense reserves of approximately $1.7 billion. Assumed reinsurance At December 31, 2007, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.8 billion, consisting of $750 million of case reserves and $2.0 billion of IBNR. In comparison, at December 31, 2006, net unpaid losses and loss expenses for the Global Reinsurance segment aggregated to $2.6 billion, consisting of $778 million of case reserves and $1.8 billion of IBNR. For catastrophe business, we principally estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses on an event basis by considering various sources of information, including specific loss estimates reported by our cedants, ceding company and overall industry loss estimates reported by our brokers, and our internal data regarding reinsured exposures related to the geographical location of the event. Our internal data analysis enables us to establish catastrophe reserves for known events with more certainty at an earlier date than would be the case if we solely relied on reports from third parties to determine carried reserves. For our casualty reinsurance business, we generally rely on ceding companies to report claims and then use that data as a key input to estimate unpaid losses and loss expenses. Due to the reliance on claims information reported by ceding companies, as well as other factors, the estimation of unpaid losses and loss expenses for assumed reinsurance includes certain risks and uncertainties that are unique relative to our direct insurance business. These include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: The reported claims information could be inaccurate; Typically, a lag exists between the reporting of a loss event to a ceding company and its reporting to us as a reinsurance claim. The use of a broker to transmit financial information from a ceding company to us increases the reporting lag. Because most of our reinsurance business is produced by brokers, ceding companies generally first submit claim and other financial information to brokers, who then report the proportionate share of such information to each reinsurer of a particular treaty. The reporting lag generally results in a longer period of time between the date a claim is incurred and the date a claim is reported compared with direct insurance operations. Therefore, the risk of delayed recognition of loss reserve development is higher for assumed reinsurance than for direct insurance lines; and The historical claims data for a particular reinsurance contract can be limited relative to our insurance business in that there may be less historical information available. Further, for certain coverages provided by products, such as excess of loss contracts, there may be relatively few expected claims in a particular year so the actual number of claims may be susceptible to significant variability. In such cases, the actuary often relies on industry data from several recognized sources. We mitigate the above risks in several ways. In addition to routine analytical reviews of ceding company reports to ensure reported claims information appears reasonable, we perform regular underwriting and claims audits of certain ceding companies to ensure reported claims information is accurate, complete, and timely. As appropriate, audit findings are used to adjust claims in the reserving process. We also use our knowledge of the historical development of losses from individual ceding companies to adjust the level of adequacy we believe exists in the reported ceded losses. 43 Table of Contents On occasion, there will be differences between our carried loss reserves and unearned premiums reserves and the amount of loss reserves and unearned premiums reserves reported by the ceding companies. This is due to the fact that we receive consistent and timely information from ceding companies only with respect to case reserves. For IBNR, we use historical experience and other statistical information, depending on the type of business, to estimate the ultimate loss (see Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses for more information). We estimate our unearned premiums reserve by applying estimated earning patterns to net premiums written for each treaty based upon that treatys coverage basis (i.e., risks attaching or losses occurring). At December 31, 2007, the case reserves reported to us by our ceding companies were $723 million, compared with the $750 million we recorded. Our policy is to post additional case reserves in addition to the amounts reported by our cedants when our evaluation of the ultimate value of a reported claim is different than the evaluation of that claim by our cedant. Within the Insurance North American segment, we also have exposure to certain liability reinsurance lines that have been in run off since 1994. Unpaid losses and loss expenses relating to this run off reinsurance business resides within the Brandywine Division of our Insurance North American segment. Most of the remaining unpaid losses and loss expense reserves for the run off reinsurance business relate to A&E claims. (Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information.) Asbestos and environmental reserves Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are liabilities for asbestos and environmental claims and expenses. These claims are principally related to claims arising from remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites and bodily injury claims related to exposure to asbestos products and environmental hazards. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to the recent legal environment, including specific settlements that may be used as precedents to settle future claims. During 2007, we conducted a review of our consolidated A&E liabilities as of June 30, 2007. As a result of the internal review, we concluded that our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, were adequate and, therefore, no change to the carried reserve was required. An internal review was also conducted during 2006 for our consolidated A&E liabilities as of June 30, 2006. For that review, we concluded that our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, were adequate and, therefore, no change to the carried net reserve was required, while the gross loss reserves increased by approximately $210 million. In 2006, a team of external actuaries performed an evaluation as to the adequacy of the reserves of Century Indemnity Company (Century). This external review was conducted in accordance with the Brandywine Restructuring Order, which requires that an external actuarial review of Centurys reserves be completed every two years. The results of the external review were addressed with the Pennsylvania Insurance Department and no changes to statutory basis loss reserves were deemed necessary. Our A&E reserves are not discounted and do not reflect any anticipated future changes in the legal, social, or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. There are many complex variables that we consider when estimating the reserves for our inventory of asbestos accounts and these variables may directly impact the predicted outcome. We believe the most significant variables relating to our A&E reserves include assumptions regarding trends with respect to claim severity and the frequency of higher severity claims, the ability of a claimant to bring a claim in a state in which they have no residency or exposure, the ability of a policyholder to claim the right to non products coverage, whether high level excess policies have the potential to be accessed given the policyholders claim trends and liability situation, and payments to unimpaired claimants and the potential liability of peripheral defendants. Based on the policies, the facts, the law, and a careful analysis of the impact that these factors will likely have on any given account, we estimate the potential liability for indemnity, policyholder defense costs, and coverage litigation expense. The results in asbestos cases announced by other carriers may well have little or no relevance to us because coverage exposures are highly dependent upon the specific facts of individual coverage and resolution status of disputes among carriers, policyholders, and claimants. Refer to Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities for more information. Reinsurance recoverable Reinsurance recoverable includes the balances due to us from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses, and is presented net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is determined based upon a review of the financial condition of the reinsurers and other factors. Ceded reinsurance contracts do not relieve our primary obligation to our policyholders. Consequently, an exposure exists with respect to reinsurance recover 44 Table of Contents able to the extent that any reinsurer is unable to meet its obligations or disputes the liabilities assumed under the reinsurance contracts. We determine the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses using actuarial estimates as well as a determination of our ability to cede unpaid losses and loss expenses under existing reinsurance contracts. The recognition of a reinsurance recoverable asset requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves our estimation based on the amount of gross reserves and the percentage of that amount which may be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR, which is a major component of the reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, is generally developed as part of our loss reserving process and, consequently, its estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross IBNR (refer to Critical Accounting Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses). The second judgment involves our estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that we may ultimately be unable to recover from reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable asset and, in turn, shareholders equity. Changes in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance are reflected in net income. Although the contractual obligation of individual reinsurers to pay their reinsurance obligations is based on specific contract provisions, the collectability of such amounts requires estimation by management. The majority of the balance we have accrued as recoverable will not be due for collection until sometime in the future, in some cases, several decades from now. Over this period of time, economic conditions and operational performance of a particular reinsurer may impact their ability to meet these obligations and while they may continue to acknowledge their contractual obligation to do so, they may not have the financial resources or willingness to fully meet their obligation to us. To estimate the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, the reinsurance recoverable must first be determined for each reinsurer. This determination is based on a process rather than an estimate, although an element of judgment must be applied. As part of the process, ceded IBNR is allocated to reinsurance contracts because ceded IBNR is not generally calculated on a contract by contract basis. The allocations are generally based on premiums ceded under reinsurance contracts, adjusted for actual loss experience and historical relationships between gross and ceded losses. If actual experience varies materially from historical experience, including that used to determine ceded premium, the allocation of reinsurance recoverable by reinsurer will change. While such change is unlikely to result in a large percentage change in the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, it could, nevertheless, have a material effect on our net income in the period recorded. Generally, we use a default analysis to estimate uncollectible reinsurance. The primary components of the default analysis are reinsurance recoverable balances by reinsurer, net of collateral, and default factors used to estimate the probability that the reinsurer may be unable to meet its future obligations in full. The definition of collateral for this purpose requires some judgment and is generally limited to assets held in an ACE only beneficiary trust, letters of credit, and liabilities held by us with the same legal entity for which we believe there is a right of offset. We do not currently include multi beneficiary trusts. However, we have several reinsurers that have established multi beneficiary trusts for which certain of our companies are beneficiaries. The determination of the default factor is principally based on the financial strength rating of the reinsurer and a corresponding default factor applicable to the financial strength rating. Default factors require considerable judgment and are determined using the current financial strength rating, or rating equivalent, of each reinsurer as well as other key considerations and assumptions. Significant considerations and assumptions include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: For reinsurers that maintain a financial strength rating from a major rating agency, and for which recoverable balances are considered representative of the larger population (i.e., default probabilities are consistent with similarly rated reinsurers and payment durations conform to averages), the judgment exercised by management to determine the provision for uncollectible reinsurance of each reinsurer is typically limited because the financial rating is based on a published source and the default factor we apply is based on a default factor of a major rating agency applicable to the particular rating class. Default factors applied for financial ratings of AAA, AA, A, BBB, BB, B, and CCC, are 0.5 percent, 1.2 percent, 1.9 percent, 4.7 percent, 9.6 percent, 23.8 percent and 49.7 percent, respectively. Because the model we use is predicated on the default factors of a major rating agency, we do not generally consider alternative factors. However, when a recoverable is expected to be paid in a brief period of time by a highly rated reinsurer, such as certain property catastrophe claims, a default factor may not be applied; For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are both unrated by a major rating agency and for which management is unable to determine a credible rating equivalent based on a parent, affiliate, or peer company, we determine a rating equivalent based on an analysis of the reinsurer that considers an assessment of the creditworthiness of the particular entity, industry benchmarks, or other factors as considered appropriate. We then apply the applicable default factor for that rating class. For balances recoverable from unrated reinsurers for which our ceded reserve is below a certain threshold, we generally apply a default factor of 25 percent; 45 Table of Contents For balances recoverable from reinsurers that are either insolvent or under regulatory supervision, we establish a default factor and resulting provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on specific facts and circumstances surrounding each company. Upon initial notification of an insolvency, we generally recognize expense for a substantial portion of all balances outstanding, net of collateral, through a combination of write offs of recoverable balances and increases to the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. When regulatory action is taken on a reinsurer, we generally recognize a default factor by estimating an expected recovery on all balances outstanding, net of collateral. When sufficient credible information becomes available, we adjust the provision for uncollectible reinsurance by establishing a default factor pursuant to information received; and For captives and other recoverables, management determines the provision for uncollectible reinsurance based on the specific facts and circumstances. The following table summarizes reinsurance recoverables and the provision for uncollectible reinsurance for each type of recoverable balance at December 31, 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) TotalReinsuranceRecoverables Recoverables(Net of UsableCollateral) Provision forUncollectibleReinsurance Type Reinsurers with credit ratings $ 11,452 $ 10,561 $ 232 Reinsurers not rated 708 583 259 Reinsurers under supervision and insolvent reinsurers 195 181 128 Captives 1,508 423 21 Other structured settlements and pools 1,185 1,185 46 Total $ 15,048 $ 12,933 $ 686 At December 31, 2007, the use of different assumptions within our approach could have a material effect on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent the creditworthiness of our reinsurers were to deteriorate due to an adverse event affecting the reinsurance industry, such as a large number of major catastrophes, actual uncollectible amounts could be significantly greater than our provision for uncollectible reinsurance. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and our liquidity. Given the various considerations used to estimate our uncollectible provision, we cannot precisely quantify the effect a specific industry event may have on the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. However, based on the composition (particularly the average credit quality) of the reinsurance recoverable balance at December 31, 2007, we estimate that a ratings downgrade of one notch for all rated reinsurers (i.e, from A to A or A to BBB+) could increase our provision for uncollectible reinsurance by approximately $166 million or approximately one percent of the reinsurance recoverable balance, assuming no other changes relevant to the calculation. While a ratings downgrade would result in an increase in our provision for uncollectible reinsurance and a charge to earnings in that period, a downgrade in and of itself does not imply that we will be unable to collect all of the ceded reinsurance recoverable from the reinsurers in question. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Investments Our fixed maturity investments are classified as either available for sale or held to maturity. Our available for sale portfolio is reported at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in shareholders equity as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Fair value is determined using the quoted market price of these securities provided by either independent pricing services, or when such prices are not available, by reference to broker or underwriter bid indications. We regularly review our impaired investments (i.e., those debt securities for which fair value is below amortized cost or those equity securities for which fair value is below cost) for a possible other than temporary impairment. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record the decline as an unrealized loss in our shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the book value of the investment and record a realized loss in our consolidated statement of operations. An impairment is considered other than temporary unless we have the ability and intent to hold the investment to recovery of the cost of the investment, and evidence indicating the cost of the investment is recoverable within a reasonable period outweighs evidence to the contrary. The determination as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary principally requires the following critical judgments: i) the circumstances that require management to make a specific assessment as to whether or not the decline is other than temporary, such as the time period an investment has been in a loss position and the significance of the decline; and ii) for those securities to be assessed, whether we have the 46 Table of Contents ability and intent to hold the security through an expected recovery period, absent a significant change in facts that would be expected to have a material adverse effect on either the financial markets or the financial position of the issuer. With respect to securities where the decline in value is determined to be temporary and the securitys value is not written down, a subsequent decision may be made to sell that security and realize a loss. Subsequent decisions on security sales could be made based on changes in liquidity needs (i.e., arising from a large insured loss such as a catastrophe), internal risk management considerations, the financial condition of the issuer or its industry, market conditions, and new investment opportunities. Day to day management of the majority of our investment portfolio is outsourced to third party investment managers. The dynamic nature of portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell the security and realize the loss based upon new circumstances such as those related to the changes described above. We believe that subsequent decisions to sell such securities are consistent with the classification of the majority of our portfolio as available for sale. The gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2007, for all securities in a loss position was $391 million with $6 million in an unrealized loss position for over 12 months ($4 million was related to fixed maturities held to maturity). Our net realized losses in 2007 included write downs of $141 million of which $123 million was related to fixed maturities. This compares with write downs of $214 million and $88 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The impairments recorded in 2007 and 2006 were primarily due to an increase in market interest rates from the date of security purchase and as such, were not credit related. Because our investment portfolio is the largest component of consolidated assets and a multiple of shareholders equity, adverse changes in economic conditions subsequent to the balance sheet date could result in other than temporary impairments that are material to our financial condition and operating results. Such economic changes could arise from overall changes in the financial markets and specific changes to industries, companies, or foreign governments in which we maintain relatively large investment holdings. Further, an increase in interest rates could result in an increased number of fixed maturities for which we cannot support the intent to hold to recovery. More information regarding our process for reviewing our portfolio for possible impairments can be found in the section entitled Net Realized Gains (Losses). Deferred tax assets Many of our insurance businesses operate in income tax paying jurisdictions. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities primarily result from temporary differences between the amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities separately for each tax paying component (an individual entity or group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes) in each tax jurisdiction. At December 31, 2007, our net deferred tax asset was $1.1 billion. (Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information). At each balance sheet date, management assesses the need to establish a valuation allowance that reduces deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that all, or some portion, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance is based on all available information including projections of future taxable income from each tax paying component in each tax jurisdiction, principally derived from business plans and available tax planning strategies. Projections of future taxable income incorporate several assumptions of future business and operations that are apt to differ from actual experience. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates that resulted in our forecast of future taxable income for each tax paying component proves to be incorrect, an additional valuation allowance could become necessary. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. At December 31, 2007, the valuation allowance of $41 million (including $24 million with respect to foreign tax credits) reflects managements assessment that it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized due to the inability of certain foreign subsidiaries to generate sufficient taxable income or the inability to utilize foreign tax credits. Guaranteed minimum income benefits derivatives Under reinsurance programs covering living benefit guarantees, we assume the risk of guaranteed minimum income benefits associated with variable annuity contracts. Our GMIB reinsurance product meets the definition of a derivative for accounting purposes and is therefore carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net realized gains (losses) in the period of the change pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (FAS 133). We believe that the most meaningful presentation of these derivatives is to reflect cash inflows or revenue as net premiums earned, and to record estimates of the average modeled value of future cash outflows as incurred losses. For GMIB reinsurance, we recognize benefit reserves consistent with AICPA Statement of Position 03 1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Non traditional Long duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts (SOP 03 1). Changes in this reserve are included in life underwriting income. The incremental difference between fair value and SOP 03 1 benefit reserves is reflected in other assets or other liabilities in the balance sheet and related changes in fair value are reflected in net realized gains (losses) in the consolidated statement of operations. We generally hold these derivative con 47 Table of Contents tracts to maturity. Where we hold a derivative to maturity, the cumulative gains and losses will net to zero. Refer to Note 2j) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for further description of this product and related accounting treatment. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates and equity indices on the fair value of GMIBs, and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. The fair value of GMIB reinsurance is estimated using an internal valuation model which includes the use of management estimates and current market information. All of our treaties contain claim limits, which are factored into the valuation model. The fair value depends on a number of factors, including changes in interest rates, changes in equity markets, changes in market volatility, changes in policyholder behavior, and changes in policyholder mortality. The model and related assumptions are continuously re evaluated by management and enhanced, as appropriate, based upon improvements in modeling techniques and availability of more timely market information, such as market conditions and demographics of in force annuities. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the assumptions used in the valuation models to determine the fair value of these derivative products, actual experience may differ from the estimates reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements, and the differences may be material. The two most significant policyholder behavior assumptions include lapse rates and annuitization rates using the guaranteed benefit (GMIB annuitization rate). Assumptions regarding lapse rates and GMIB annuitization rates differ by treaty but the underlying methodology to determine rates applied to each treaty is comparable. The assumptions regarding lapse and GMIB annuitization rates determined for each treaty are based on a dynamic calculation that uses several underlying factors. The effect of changes in key market factors on assumed lapse and annuitization rates is principally based on historical experience for variable annuity contracts as well as considerable judgment, particularly for newer benefits with limited historical experience. A lapse rate is the percentage of in force policies surrendered in a given calendar year. All else equal, as lapse rates increase, ultimate claim payments will decrease. The GMIB annuitization rate is the percentage of policies for which the customer will elect to annuitize using the guaranteed benefit provided under the GMIB. All else equal, as GMIB annuitization rates increase, ultimate claim payments will increase, subject to treaty claim limits. Key factors affecting the lapse rate assumption include investment performance and policy duration. We generally assume that lapse rates increase with policy duration with a significant increase in rates after the end of the surrender charge period. As investment performance of underlying fund investments declines, and guarantees become more valuable, lapse rates are anticipated to decrease thereby increasing the expected value of claims on minimum guarantees and thus benefit reserves and the incremental fair value liability. Key factors affecting the GMIB annuitization rate include investment performance and interest rates after the GMIB waiting period. As investment performance of underlying fund investments declines, the monthly income available to a policyholder who annuitizes their account value falls; this makes the GMIB more valuable. As the GMIB becomes more valuable, our modeling assumes that annuitization rates will increase, resulting in higher benefit reserves and fair value liability. The same is true in an environment where long term interest rates are decreasing. Net realized losses for 2007 included $185 million for GMIB reinsurance, compared with $nil in 2006 and net realized gains of $18 million in 2005, excluding changes in the fair value of specific derivative instruments held to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. These derivatives do not receive hedge accounting treatment. Refer to Net Realized Gains (Losses) for more information. Goodwill Goodwill, which represents the excess of the cost of our acquisitions over the fair value of net assets we acquired, was $2.7 billion at December 31, 2007. The ACE INA acquisition resulted in approximately 80 percent of this balance. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to a periodic evaluation of impairment. It is our policy to test goodwill as well as other intangible assets for impairments on an annual basis. The impairment tests in 2007, in the aggregate, show a fair value in excess of the carrying value. Goodwill is assigned to applicable reporting units of acquired entities at acquisition. The most significant reporting units are the domestic and international divisions of ACE INA acquired in 1999; ACE Tempest Res catastrophe businesses acquired in 1996 and 1998; and Tarquin Limited acquired in 1998. There are other reporting units that resulted from smaller acquisitions that are also assessed annually. In our impairment tests, to estimate the fair value of a reporting unit, we principally use both an earnings model, which considers forecasted earnings and other financial ratios of the reporting unit as well as relevant financial data of comparable companies to the reporting unit such as the relationship of price to earnings for recent transactions and market valuations of publicly traded companies, and an analysis of the present value of estimated net cash flows. We must assess whether the current fair value of our operating units is at least equal to the fair value used in the determination of goodwill. In doing this, we make assumptions and estimates about the profitability attributable to our operat 48 Table of Contents ing segments, as this is important in assessing whether an impairment has occurred. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates made in assessing the fair value of acquired entities change, goodwill could be materially adjusted. This would cause us to write down the carrying value of goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period the charge is taken. Risk transfer In the ordinary course of business, we both purchase (or cede) and sell (or assume) P&C reinsurance protection. In 2002, as a matter of policy, we discontinued the purchase of all finite reinsurance contracts. For both ceded and assumed reinsurance, risk transfer requirements must be met in order to use reinsurance accounting, principally resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract as premiums and losses. If risk transfer requirements are not met, a contract is to be accounted for as a deposit, typically resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. We also apply similar risk transfer requirements to determine whether certain commercial insurance contracts should be accounted for as insurance or a deposit. Contracts that include fixed premium (i.e., premium not subject to adjustment based on loss experience under the contract) for fixed coverage generally transfer risk and do not require judgment. Reinsurance and insurance contracts that include both significant risk sharing provisions, such as adjustments to premiums or loss coverage based on loss experience, and relatively low policy limits as evidenced by a high proportion of maximum premium assessments to loss limits, can require considerable judgment to determine whether or not risk transfer requirements are met. For such contracts, often referred to as finite or structured products, we require that risk transfer be specifically assessed for each contract by developing expected cash flow analyses at contract inception. To support risk transfer, the cash flow analyses must support the fact that a significant loss is reasonably possible, such as a scenario in which the ratio of the net present value of losses divided by the net present value of premiums equals or exceeds 110 percent. For purposes of cash flow analyses, we generally use a risk free rate of return consistent with the expected average duration of loss payments. In addition, to support insurance risk, we must prove the reinsurers risk of loss varies with that of the reinsured and or support various scenarios under which the assuming entity can recognize a significant loss. To ensure risk transfer requirements are routinely assessed, quantitative risk transfer analyses and memoranda supporting risk transfer are developed by underwriters for all structured products. We have established protocols for structured products that include criteria triggering an accounting review of the contract prior to quoting. If any criterion is triggered, a contract must be reviewed by a committee established by each of our operating segments with reporting oversight, including peer review, from our global Structured Transaction Review Committee. With respect to ceded reinsurance, we entered into a few multi year excess of loss retrospectively rated contracts, principally in 2002, some of which remain in force. These contracts principally provide severity protection for specific product divisions. Because traditional one year reinsurance coverage had become relatively costly, these contracts were generally entered into to secure a more cost effective reinsurance program. All of these contracts transferred risk and have been accounted for as reinsurance. In addition, we maintain a few aggregate excess of loss reinsurance contracts that were principally entered into prior to 2003, such as the National Indemnity Company (NICO) contracts referred to in the section entitled, Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities. Subsequent to the ACE INA acquisition, we have not purchased any retroactive ceded reinsurance contracts. With respect to assumed reinsurance and insurance contracts, products giving rise to judgments regarding risk transfer were primarily sold by our financial solutions business. Although we have ceased writing financial solutions business, several contracts remain in force and principally include multi year retrospectively rated contracts and loss portfolio transfers. Because transfer of insurance risk is generally a primary client motivation for purchasing these products, relatively few P&C insurance and reinsurance contracts have historically been written for which we concluded that risk transfer criteria had not been met. For certain insurance contracts that have been reported as deposits, the insured desired to self insure a risk but was required, legally or otherwise, to purchase insurance so that claimants would be protected by a licensed insurance company in the event of non payment from the insured. A significant portion of ACE Tempest Re USAs business is written through quota share treaties (approximately $461 million of net premiums earned in 2007, comprised of $324 million of first dollar quota share treaties and $137 million of excess quota share treaties), some of which are categorized as structured products. Structured quota share treaties typically contain relatively low aggregate policy limits, a feature that reduces loss coverage in some manner and a profit sharing provision. Accounting standard setters for both GAAP and statutory reporting have undertaken projects to re evaluate risk transfer guidance, including accounting models that could ultimately require the bifurcation of structured quota share treaties into 49 Table of Contents insurance and financing elements, and perhaps other quota share contracts not currently categorized as structured, into a reinsurance and financing component. New guidance in this area has the potential to have a significant impact on the amount of premiums and losses recognized under these contracts but we expect little impact to our net income. Consolidated Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Net premiums written $ 11,979 $ 12,030 $ 11,792 Net premiums earned 12,297 11,825 11,748 Net investment income 1,918 1,601 1,264 Net realized gains (losses) (61 ) (98 ) 76 Total revenues $ 14,154 $ 13,328 $ 13,088 Losses and loss expenses 7,351 7,070 8,571 Life and annuity benefits 168 123 143 Policy acquisition costs 1,771 1,715 1,663 Administrative expenses 1,455 1,456 1,261 Interest expense 175 176 174 Other (income) expense 81 (35 ) (25 ) Total expenses 11,001 10,505 11,787 Income before income tax 3,153 2,823 1,301 Income tax expense 575 522 273 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 4 Net income $ 2,578 $ 2,305 $ 1,028 Net premiums written, which reflect the premiums we retain after purchasing reinsurance protection, decreased slightly in 2007, compared with 2006. During 2007, we experienced competitive conditions, particularly in our Global Reinsurance segment, offset by favorable foreign exchange impact and growth in our international A&H business. Our ACE USA operations reported modest growth driven primarily by specialty casualty and energy lines as well as professional risk and a large assumed portfolio contract. ACE Westchester Specialty (ACE Westchester) reported a decrease in production due to very competitive conditions on P&C lines. Net premiums written increased two percent in 2006, compared with 2005. The increase was primarily driven by production gains in many of ACE USAs and ACE Westchesters businesses, A&H growth at ACE International, and increased rates on short tail lines at ACE Global Markets. These increases were partially offset by a decline in international financial solutions business, which we have ceased writing. The 2005 year was impacted by net catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, which reduced net premiums written and earned by $68 million. The following table provides a consolidated breakdown of net premiums earned by line of business for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 % of total 2006 % of total 2005 % of total Property and all other $ 3,787 31% $ 3,618 31% $ 3,560 30% Casualty 6,464 52% 6,506 55% 6,698 57% Personal accident (A&H) 1,678 14% 1,427 12% 1,242 11% Total P&C 11,929 97% 11,551 98% 11,500 98% Life 368 3% 274 2% 248 2% Net premiums earned $ 12,297 100% $ 11,825 100% $ 11,748 100% Net premiums earned reflect the portion of net premiums written that were recorded as revenues for the period as the exposure period expires. Net premiums earned increased four percent in 2007, compared with 2006. This increase was primarily related to increased production at ACE USA and ACE International as well as our life operations, partially offset by decreased production at our Global Reinsurance segment. Net premiums earned were stable in 2006, compared with 2005 as increases in A&H were offset by significant decreases in financial solutions business, which we have ceased writing. 50 Table of Contents Net investment income increased 20 percent in 2007, compared with 2006, and 27 percent in 2006, compared with 2005. These increases were primarily due to investment of positive operating cash flows and net proceeds from our approximately $1.5 billion public offering in October 2005, which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. In evaluating our P&C business, we use the combined ratio, the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. We calculate these ratios by dividing the respective expense amounts by net premiums earned. We do not calculate these ratios for the life business as we do not use these measures to monitor or manage that business. The combined ratio is determined by adding the loss and loss expense ratio, the policy acquisition cost ratio, and the administrative expense ratio. A combined ratio under 100 percent indicates underwriting income and a combined ratio exceeding 100 percent indicates underwriting losses. The following table shows our consolidated loss and loss expense ratio, policy acquisition ratio, administrative expense ratio, and combined ratio for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. 2007 2006 2005 Loss and loss expense ratio 61.6% 61.2% 74.5% Policy acquisition cost ratio 14.5% 14.6% 14.2% Administrative expense ratio 11.8% 12.3% 10.8% Combined ratio 87.9% 88.1% 99.5% The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. 2007 2006 2005 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 61.6 % 61.2 % 74.5 % Catastrophe losses (1.3)% (0.1)% (11.4)% Prior period development 1.8 % 0.1 % (0.7)% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 62.1 % 61.2 % 62.4 % We recorded $159 million in net catastrophe losses in 2007, compared with $17 million in 2006, and $1.4 billion in 2005. For 2007, our catastrophe losses were primarily related to floods in the U.K., Australia, and the U.S. and also include the impact of European windstorm Kyrill. In 2005, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. Prior period development arises from changes to loss estimates recognized in the current year that relate to loss reserves first reported in previous calendar years and excludes the effect of losses from the development of earned premium from previous accident years. We experienced $217 million of net favorable prior period development in 2007. This compares with $12 million of net favorable prior period development in 2006, and $86 million of net adverse prior period development in 2005. The favorable prior period development in 2007 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements; refer to Prior Period Development. Our loss and loss expense ratio was negatively impacted by an increase in current year accident losses, reflecting current market conditions. Our policy acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes, underwriting, and other costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of premium. Administrative expenses include all other operating costs. For 2007, our policy acquisition cost ratio was stable. A&H business typically incurs higher acquisition costs relative to other lines, and therefore, our growth in this area has had a negative impact on our policy acquisition cost ratio. This increasing trend on our policy acquisition costs was offset in 2007 by reduced ceding commission at ACE Tempest Re USA. Our policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2006 primarily due to changes in business mix and the favorable impact in 2005 of net premiums earned on multi year contracts in connection with the significant 2005 catastrophe losses which, generally, did not incur acquisition costs. Our administrative expenses in 2007 were stable compared with 2006, despite an adverse impact of foreign exchange. We continue to focus on reducing expenses where possible. Our administrative expense ratio decreased in 2007, compared with 2006, due to the increase in net premiums earned. For 2006, the administrative expense ratio increased, compared with 2005, primarily due to global expansion, including staff additions and infrastructure enhancements at ACE USA, ACE Westchester, ACE Life, and ACE International. Administrative expenses in 2006 also include $80 million related to the settlement with certain governmental agencies from their investigations of various insurance industry practices. For 2005, administrative 51 Table of Contents expenses were reduced by the release of an accrual in Insurance North American and higher net profits from ACE USAs ESIS (claims services) operation, which we include in administrative expenses. Our effective income tax rate, which we calculate as income tax expense divided by income before income tax, is dependent upon the mix of earnings from different jurisdictions with various tax rates. A change in the geographic mix of earnings would change the effective income tax rate. Our effective tax rate on net income was 18 percent in 2007 and 2006, compared with 21 percent in 2005. We decreased our liability for unrecognized tax benefits in the amount of $39 million in 2007 due primarily to a change in tax regulation. In 2005, a substantial portion of our catastrophe losses occurred in jurisdictions where we do not incur income tax, causing our income to decline without a commensurate decrease in income tax expense. The growth in our net income in 2007, compared with 2006, is reflective of the strength, diversity, and balance in our organization. All of our segments contributed to our net income. Prior Period Development The favorable prior period development of $217 million during the year ended December 31, 2007, was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. In the sections following the table below, significant prior period movements within each reporting segment are discussed in more detail. The following table summarizes prior period development, (favorable) and adverse, by segment and claim tail attribute for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. Note that short tail as used here includes the previously reported categories of short tail and specialty. (in millions of U.S. dollars, except for percentages) Long tail Short tail Total % of netunpaidreserves* 2007 Insurance North American $ 39 $ (30 ) $ 9 0.1% Insurance Overseas General (53 ) (139 ) (192 ) 3.2% Global Reinsurance 13 (47 ) (34 ) 1.3% Total $ (1 ) $ (216 ) $ (217 ) 1.0% 2006 Insurance North American $ 60 $ 5 $ 65 0.5% Insurance Overseas General 20 (92 ) (72 ) 1.3% Global Reinsurance (3 ) (2 ) (5 ) 0.2% Total $ 77 $ (89 ) $ (12 ) 0.1% * Calculated based on the segment beginning of period net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves. Insurance North American Insurance North American incurred net adverse prior period development of $9 million in 2007, representing 0.1 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. The net prior period development in 2007 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net adverse development of $39 million on long tail business including: Adverse development of $21 million due to an adjustment made in 2006 relating to IBNR reserves on commuted ceded reinsurance contracts, identified and resolved during 2007; Adverse development of $33 million on two related specialty claims from a runoff financial guaranty program affecting accident year 2000 due to adverse judicial rulings rendered during the 2007 calendar year; Adverse development on our estimates of future allocated claims expense on two separate portfolios of workers compensation insurance totaling $28 million. This change in estimate affected our national accounts workers compensation business (principally accident years 2002 2004) and a runoff portfolio of workers compensation servicing carrier business (covering accident years 1996 and prior). For the national accounts business, the change was principally in our high deductible portfolio. Based on analyses completed during 2007, we have increased our tail factor for allocated loss adjustment expenses (ALAE) as well as our ratios of ALAE to loss used in our projection methodologies. Small movements in these assumptions produce a leveraged increase in the loss estimates across a number of accident years; Adverse development on our estimates of ultimate loss on a collection of runoff professional liability and medical programs totaling $20 million. These increases were the direct result of a review of all open claims that was completed 52 Table of Contents during 2007. This claims review identified a number of cases where adverse change in facts and circumstances led to a significant deviation from our estimates of ultimate claim value; Favorable development in our estimate of ultimate loss and ALAE of $18 million in our surety business. This improvement was heavily concentrated in the 2005 and 2006 accident years. In the 2007 calendar year, the level of late reported claims and development on known claims for this portfolio was significantly below historical levels for this line of business resulting in a reduction in all loss projection methods; Favorable development on our national accounts casualty business, primarily general liability, of $21 million for the 2002 2004 accident years. Development on these portfolios continues to be favorable relative to the original assumptions used to price the products. Actual paid and incurred loss activity in 2007 has been lower than assumed in our prior projections and we have modified our estimates accordingly; and Favorable development of $25 million on our foreign casualty portfolio for the 2004 and prior accident years. This is partly due to an adjustment for a reserve established in 2006 for a single large claim, but also due to low levels of reported and paid loss activity on our foreign captive business. This particular line has net exposure on a per occurrence basis excess of high deductibles/self insured retentions and an aggregate basis excess of an aggregate attachment point. Expected loss emergence patterns used in our 2006 review projected higher loss development for the 2004 and prior accident years than emerged during 2007 prompting a reduction in our projection of ultimate losses. Net favorable development of $30 million on short tail business including: Adverse development totaling $115 million relating to increases in our estimates of loss for the 2005 storms primarily in our ACE Westchester operation but also some modest development in our offshore energy business. This development was due primarily to a relatively small number of losses on excess policies with large exposed limits. These losses reached settlement during 2007 for amounts in excess of our case reserves prompting adjustments to our projections of ultimate losses. The claims handling associated with the 2005 hurricanes has involved complex and unique causation and coverage issues. These issues continue to be present and may have a further material adverse impact on our financial results; Favorable development of $33 million on ACE Westchester crop/hail business. This was the direct effect of recording the final settlement of the 2006 pool year from the bordereau received during the 2007 calendar year; Favorable development of $52 million in our workers compensation business due to the absence of multi claimant events such as industrial accidents for the 2006 accident year. The majority of our exposure for these perils falls under our national accounts high deductible line of business. We evaluate this exposure annually after the accident year has closed allowing for the late identification of significant losses. Our review in 2007 of potential 2006 accident year losses has led to a decrease in our estimate of the required provision for these claims; Favorable development in our estimates of ultimate losses for first party lines including property and auto physical damage in our ACE Canada operations totaling $18 million, affecting primarily the 2006 accident year. Incurred loss development during calendar year 2007 on the 2006 accident year was lower than historical averages which formed the basis for our prior projections. Given the relatively short reporting pattern for this business, the actual loss emergence was assigned credibility and the ultimate loss estimates revised accordingly; Favorable development in our estimates of ultimate loss of $19 million on our Canadian A&H portfolio. We have limited historical experience for this product line. Losses were originally recorded using an expected loss ratio method. Actual loss emergence in calendar year 2007 has proven to be more favorable than our prior projections. Given the relatively short reporting pattern for this business, the actual loss emergence was assigned credibility and the ultimate loss estimates revised accordingly; and Favorable development in our estimates of ultimate loss of $28 million on short tail, non catastrophe losses in our ACE Westchester property and inland marine product lines. Attritional incurred loss activity on the 2005 and 2006 accident years in the 2007 calendar year was lower than historical averages which formed the basis for our prior projections. Insurance North American incurred net adverse prior period development of $65 million in 2006, representing 0.5 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. The net prior period development in 2006 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net adverse development of $60 million on long tail business including: Adverse development of $57 million on a small number of run off portfolios in the U.S. with predominantly middle market workers compensation exposures from accident years 1996 and prior. In 2006, we lengthened the selected tail factors due to an increasing trend observed in industry statistics published in 2006, and a modest deterioration in our claims experience related to the medical cost component of individual claims that emerged since the prior study; 53 Table of Contents Adverse development of $42 million on the ACE Bermuda D&O book from report years 2000 2002 driven by case estimate increases on large claims following significant events in the mediation process during 2006, including increased plaintiff demands, settlement conferences, and court proceedings; Favorable development of $29 million on the ACE Bermuda excess liability book driven by the settlement of a single claim in 2006 from the 1991 report year on terms more favorable than the assumptions used to establish the reserve. The reserve was released following receipt of the rulings terms in 2006; and Favorable development of $13 million on large national account workers compensation business written by ACE USA. We observed reported claims frequency in 2006 lower than anticipated. Net adverse development of $5 million on short tail business including: Adverse development of $182 million related to property claims arising from 2005 catastrophes. The majority of this increase is related to property losses from Hurricane Katrina. The nature and extent of Hurricane Katrina resulted in some claims that increased over previously reported damage estimates. Factors leading to these increases included demand surge and some impact to previously unimpaired layers of excess coverage; Favorable development on ACE Westchesters crop/hail business of $60 million due to recording of the final settlement of the 2005 crop results. In line with normal practice for this type of business, ACE did not receive final loss reports for the 2005 year until 2006. Therefore, the prior period movements were direct results of the loss amounts within the initial and final loss reports issued during the first and second quarters of 2006 being lower than our preliminary estimates; Favorable development of $51 million on ACE USAs workers compensation short tail catastrophe and industrial accident exposure arising from 2004 and 2005 accident years, due to favorable trends in reported loss development. For the 2004 and 2005 accident years, claims arising from industrial or travel accidents trended favorably in 2006 relative to how earlier accident years had developed at the same period of maturity; and Net favorable development of $46 million related to the 2004 and 2005 accident years. This favorable activity was primarily in our aerospace and surety lines of business. Both of these businesses are relatively new, in that as recently as 2002 our premium volume was minimal and we have grown these businesses significantly since then. During 2006, we concluded the loss experience had become sufficiently credible, due to the degree of elapsed time, for us to begin to consider loss based projection methods which resulted in favorable prior loss development of $14 million and $18 million, respectively. We experienced $103 million of net adverse prior period development in 2005, representing 0.9 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2004. Insurance Overseas General Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $192 million in 2007, representing 3.2 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. The net prior period development for 2007 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net favorable development of $53 million on long tail lines of business including: Net favorable development of $33 million in the 2006 and prior accident years for Insurance Overseas General long tail lines, primarily casualty and financial lines. This favorable prior period development was in response to the annual review of long tail lines completed during the year. There was $23 million of net favorable development for Insurance Overseas General on the 2003 2005 accident years driven by reductions in loss development method indications and greater credibility being assigned to Bornhuetter Ferguson projections versus expected loss ratio methods. This shift in credibility weighting between reserving methods is common practice and allows for greater recognition of actual loss emergence as accident years mature; Net favorable development of $20 million as a result of an update of the detailed annual evaluation of the excess exposures in Insurance Overseas General which comprised strengthening of $89 million in accident years 2003 and prior, and $45 million in accident year 2006, and a release of $154 million in accident years 2004 and 2005; and Adverse development of $11 million in ACE Global Markets long tail professional lines, primarily in years of account 1999 2003. This adverse prior period development was largely in response to claims department recommendations on three accounts based on updated information received during the course of claim settlement in calendar year 2007. Net favorable development of $139 million on short tail lines of business including: Favorable development of $84 million on short tail property and fire lines primarily in the 2006 accident year in ACE International. The favorable development during the past year was due in large part to shifting credibility away from Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and relying more heavily on loss development patterns as case incurred loss became a more accurate predictor of ultimate loss. This shift in credibility tended to reduce indicated ultimate losses since, with hindsight, our initial expected loss ratios have proven to be conservative; 54 Table of Contents Favorable development of $13 million on 2005 hurricane losses in ACE Global Markets. This adjustment was due to the fact that after 24 months of development, it was concluded that there would be no new reported claims; Favorable development of $30 million on specialty A&H primarily in the 2005 and 2006 accident years in ACE Europe. This favorable prior period development followed the completion of the regular reserve review and was driven by better than expected loss experience relative to prior reserving assumptions. The favorable experience arose in direct marketing A&H businesses across several countries with no particular underlying claim or loss emergence trend identifiable; Favorable development of $28 million on specialty marine, primarily in the 2005 and 2006 accident years in both ACE International and ACE Global Markets. This favorable prior period development was largely in response to claims department recommendations on several large claims based on updated information received during claim settlement in calendar year 2007; and Adverse development of $9 million on specialty consumer lines, primarily in accident year 2006. This adverse development was primarily driven by further deterioration of ACE Internationals homeowners warranty business in Norway. The indicated ultimate loss was revised upwards in 2007 in response to several key claim metrics underlying the reserve estimate: number of reopened claims, loss adjustment expenses, and frequency and severity of late reported claims. Insurance Overseas General experienced net favorable prior period development of $72 million in 2006, representing 1.3 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. The net prior period development for 2006 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements, driven by the following principal changes: Net adverse development of $20 million on long tail lines of business including: Adverse development of $29 million on the ACE Global Markets professional lines portfolio. In 2006, we continued to experience greater than expected reported loss activity related to years of account 2003 and prior, largely from claims related to corporate failures, allegations of management misconduct, and accounting irregularities. As a result, we have increased the expected ultimate loss ratios for these years in response to updated claim and legal information received in 2006 on specific cases; Adverse development of $14 million on asbestos liabilities, excluding a provision for uncollectible reinsurance, resulting from the completion of our annual analysis of our international A&E exposures by a joint legal and actuarial team during the fourth quarter of 2006; and Net favorable development of $23 million on ACE Internationals non A&E exposures from the 2002 2004 accident years. This movement was driven by continued favorable loss emergence, most notably on the U.K. casualty and Asia Pacific financial lines portfolios, as a result of favorable severity trends in 2006. Net favorable development of $92 million on short tail lines of business including: Net favorable development of $111 million on short tail property and fire lines, mainly related to accident years 2004 and 2005. The favorable development in 2006 was driven by lower than anticipated frequency and severity of late reported property claims that emerged during 2006, and favorable development and settlement of several previously reported large losses; and Net adverse development of $19 million on other short tail business including aviation, A&H, marine, consumer lines, and political risk. Most of the adverse development was driven by higher than expected loss activity in 2006 at ACE Global Markets, primarily on accident years 2002 and prior. We experienced $5 million of net adverse development in 2005, representing 0.1 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2004. Global Reinsurance Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $34 million in 2007, representing 1.3 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2006. The net prior period development recorded in 2007 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. The largest adverse movement was related to long tail lines of business for ACE Tempest Re USA of $13 million mainly as a result of higher than expected claims reported over the last few quarters primarily in the treaty years 2000 2005 for casualty and workers compensation business on several accounts. Favorable movements of $47 million largely related to claim closings on short tail property and other short tail lines of business primarily from treaty years 2005 and prior were recorded in 2007. Global Reinsurance experienced net favorable prior period development of $5 million in 2006, representing 0.2 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. The net prior period development in 2006 was the net result of several underlying favorable and adverse movements. The largest adverse movement was related to catastrophes from the 2005 accident year of $29 million as a result of increased loss reports from cedants. Favorable movements 55 Table of Contents largely related to property business from accident years prior to 2005 and a number of small movements on different specialty portfolios. We experienced $22 million of net favorable prior period development in 2005, representing 1.4 percent of the segments net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2004. Segment Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 The discussions that follow include tables, which show our segment operating results for the three years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. In presenting our segment operating results, we have discussed our performance with reference to underwriting results, which is a non GAAP measure. We consider this measure, which may be defined differently by other companies, to be important in understanding our overall results of operations. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other (income) expense, interest expense, income tax expense, and net realized gains (losses). We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance and reinsurance businesses. Underwriting results should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. We operate through the following business segments: Insurance North American, Insurance Overseas General, Global Reinsurance, and Life Insurance and Reinsurance. For more information on each of our segments refer to Segment Information, under Item 1.  Insurance North American The Insurance North American segment comprises our P&C operations in the U.S., Canada, and Bermuda. This segment includes the operations of ACE USA (including ACE Canada), ACE Westchester, ACE Bermuda, and various run off operations, including Brandywine Holdings Corporation (Brandywine Holdings). (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Net premiums written $ 5,833 $ 5,940 $ 5,803 Net premiums earned 6,007 5,719 5,730 Losses and loss expenses 4,269 4,026 4,577 Policy acquisition costs 515 530 503 Administrative expenses 530 502 427 Underwriting income 693 661 223 Net investment income 1,034 876 698 Net realized gains (losses) 125 (83 ) 15 Other (income) expense 11 (2 ) 18 Income tax expense 468 352 235 Net income $ 1,373 $ 1,104 $ 683 Loss and loss expense ratio 71.1% 70.4% 79.9% Policy acquisition cost ratio 8.6% 9.2% 8.8% Administrative expense ratio 8.8% 8.8% 7.4% Combined ratio 88.5% 88.4% 96.1% Net premiums written for the Insurance North American segment decreased two percent in 2007, compared with 2006. This decrease was primarily due to a decline in new and renewal business at ACE Westchester, our wholesale operation, which experienced very competitive conditions on P&C lines. ACE Westchester also reported a decrease in retention of gross premiums written, primarily due to changes in business mix. ACE Bermuda reported a decrease in net premiums written primarily due to a decline in assumed loss portfolio business as well as excess liability and professional lines, partially offset by an increase in political risk writings in 2007, compared with 2006. ACE USA, this segments U.S. based retail division, reported modest growth driven primarily by specialty casualty and energy lines as well as professional risk and a large assumed portfolio contract. These increases were partially offset by declines in production in ACE USAs large account risk management unit and the curtailment of middle market workers compensation writings in response to unfavorable market 56 Table of Contents conditions. Net premiums written increased two percent in 2006 compared with 2005. This increase was primarily driven by ACE USA which reported growth across many lines, including commercial property, energy, aerospace, and financial solutions. ACE Bermuda reported a significant decline in its financial solutions business as net premiums written in 2005 were bolstered by catastrophe related reinstatement premiums on multi year contracts. ACE Westchester reported modest growth driven primarily by primary and excess casualty, inland marine, environmental, and professional risk business. The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance North Americans net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 % of total 2006 % of total 2005 % of total Line of Business Property and all other $ 1,462 24% $ 1,289 22% $ 1,249 22% Casualty 4,298 72% 4,228 74% 4,299 75% Personal accident (A&H) 247 4% 202 4% 182 3% Net premiums earned $ 6,007 100% $ 5,719 100% $ 5,730 100% Entity/Division ACE USA $ 4,196 70% $ 3,795 66% $ 3,666 64% ACE Westchester 1,420 24% 1,465 26% 1,385 24% ACE Bermuda 391 6% 459 8% 679 12% Net premiums earned $ 6,007 100% $ 5,719 100% $ 5,730 100% ACE USAs net premiums earned increased 11 percent in 2007, compared with 2006. The increase was primarily driven by the assumed loss portfolio contract noted above, as well as new business in the energy unit, and growth in specialty casualty lines, including professional risk, umbrella excess, custom casualty, and environmental. ACE USAs curtailment of middle market workers compensation business partially offset these increases. ACE USAs net premiums earned increased four percent in 2006, compared with 2005. This increase was primarily driven by growth in specialty casualty and commercial property lines. ACE Westchesters net premiums earned decreased three percent in 2007, compared with 2006. This decrease was primarily due to lower production in casualty lines resulting from more competitive market conditions, partially offset by increased crop/hail business, which benefited from higher commodity prices. ACE Westchesters net premiums earned increased six percent in 2006, compared with 2005. This increase was primarily driven by increased primary and excess casualty, inland marine, environmental and professional risk business and also the negative impact of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums on the 2005 year. ACE Bermudas net premiums earned decreased 15 percent in 2007, compared with 2006. The decrease was primarily due to our curtailment of financial solutions business in 2006. ACE Bermudas net premiums earned decreased 32 percent in 2006, compared with 2005. This decrease was a result of the decline in financial solutions business, including the positive impact on the prior year of catastrophe related reinstatement premiums on multi year contracts. Insurance North Americans loss and loss expense ratio increased in 2007, compared with 2006. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. 2007 2006 2005 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 71.1 % 70.4 % 79.9 % Catastrophe losses (0.3)% (8.9)% Prior period development (0.2)% (1.2)% (1.8)% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 70.6 % 69.2 % 69.2 % Insurance North Americans catastrophe losses were $16 million in 2007, compared with $nil in 2006, and $557 million in 2005. Current year catastrophe losses were primarily associated with floods in the U.S. Catastrophe losses in 2005 were significant and included losses from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. Insurance North American incurred net adverse prior period development of $9 million in 2007. This compares with net adverse prior period development of $65 million and $103 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. Insurance North 57 Table of Contents Americans loss and loss expense ratio was negatively impacted by an increase in current year accident losses, reflecting current market conditions. Insurance North Americans policy acquisition cost ratio decreased in 2007 compared with 2006. The decrease was primarily related to reductions in the policy acquisition cost ratio at ACE USA and ACE Westchester. For ACE USA, the decline reflects higher ceding commissions as well as lower premium taxes due to reassessment of obligations for premium based assessments and guaranty funds. In addition, the assumed loss portfolio transfer contract, noted above, incurred low acquisition costs, which is typical for these transactions. For ACE Westchester, the decline in the policy acquisition cost ratio was primarily due to lower profit share commissions on crop business in 2007, compared with 2006. Insurance North Americans policy acquisition cost ratio increased in 2006, compared with 2005, which benefited from premiums earned on multi year contracts which generally do not incur acquisition costs. Administrative expenses increased in 2007, compared with 2006. This increase was primarily due to increased staffing costs at ACE USA, as well as a $15 million decrease in net profits for ACE USAs ESIS operation (third party claim services), which we include in administrative expenses. The administrative expense ratio was stable in 2007, compared with 2006, as net premiums earned increased. Administrative expenses increased in 2006, compared with 2005 as the 2005 year was favorably impacted by the reduction of $42 million in various accruals determined not to be needed. Additionally, net profits for ACE USAs ESIS operation were $14 million lower in 2006, compared with 2005. Insurance Overseas General The Insurance Overseas General segment consists of ACE International, which comprises our network of indigenous insurance operations, and the wholesale insurance operations of ACE Global Markets, our London market underwriting unit including Lloyds Syndicate 2488. This segment has four regions of operations: ACE European Group, which is comprised of ACE Europe and ACE Global Markets branded business, ACE Asia Pacific, ACE Far East, and ACE Latin America. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Net premiums written $ 4,568 $ 4,266 $ 4,195 Net premiums earned 4,623 4,321 4,239 Losses and loss expenses 2,420 2,259 2,583 Policy acquisition costs 963 856 836 Administrative expenses 669 609 566 Underwriting income 571 597 254 Net investment income 450 370 319 Net realized gains (losses) (69 ) (16 ) 51 Other (income) expense (20 ) 10 16 Income tax expense 183 206 107 Net income $ 789 $ 735 $ 501 Loss and loss expense ratio 52.4% 52.3% 60.9% Policy acquisition cost ratio 20.8% 19.8% 19.7% Administrative expense ratio 14.5% 14.1% 13.4% Combined ratio 87.7% 86.2% 94.0% Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written increased seven percent in 2007, compared with 2006. Foreign exchange impact on ACE Internationals results accounted for most of this increase as both the euro and the pound sterling strengthened significantly relative to the U.S. dollar during 2007 (refer to the table below for impact of foreign exchange on net premiums written and earned). ACE International reported growth in A&H business in virtually all of its regions of operation, particularly in Latin America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. On the P&C side, growth in continental Europe was more than offset by a decline in net premiums written in the U.K. and Asia Pacific due to competitive conditions for new accounts and adverse pricing on renewal business. ACE Global Markets reported increased reinsurance costs combined with rate decreases due to competition in aviation, property, and financial lines, partially offset by increased production in energy, political risk, and A&H lines. Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums written increased two percent in 2006, compared with 2005. The 2005 year was impacted by catastrophe related reinstatement premiums, which reduced net premiums written and earned by $38 million, primarily at ACE Global Markets. 58 Table of Contents The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Insurance Overseas Generals net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 %of total 2006 % of total 2005 % of total Line of Business Property and all other $ 1,697 37% $ 1,617 37% $ 1,609 38% Casualty 1,495 32% 1,479 34% 1,570 37% Personal accident (A&H) 1,431 31% 1,225 29% 1,060 25% Net premiums earned $ 4,623 100% $ 4,321 100% $ 4,239 100% Entity/Division ACE Europe $ 1,999 43% $ 1,819 42% $ 1,865 44% ACE Asia Pacific 631 14% 590 14% 545 13% ACE Far East 365 8% 361 8% 378 9% ACE Latin America 633 14% 521 12% 416 10% ACE International 3,628 79% 3,291 76% 3,204 76% ACE Global Markets 995 21% 1,030 24% 1,035 24% Net premiums earned $ 4,623 100% $ 4,321 100% $ 4,239 100% Insurance Overseas General reported a seven percent increase in net premiums earned in 2007, compared with 2006. This increase was primarily driven by a favorable foreign exchange impact on ACE International business. Net premiums earned for this segment increased two percent in 2006, compared with 2005. In 2006, this segment experienced growth in A&H business, offset by weakening market conditions for P&C business and higher reinsurance costs. Additionally, 2005 was impacted by catastrophe related reinstatement premiums of $38 million. ACE Internationals net premiums earned increased 10 percent in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to the impact of foreign exchange. This segment continues to grow its A&H business which has offset weak market conditions for U.K. and Asia Pacific P&C business, and higher reinsurance costs for certain lines. ACE Asia Pacific and ACE Latin America reported increases in net premiums earned primarily driven by solid growth in A&H business. These regions have been successfully utilizing unique and innovative distribution channels to grow their A&H customer base. ACE International reported a three percent increase in net premiums earned in 2006, compared with 2005. This increase was primarily driven by growth of A&H business, partially offset by weakness in P&C lines in the U.K. ACE Global Markets net premiums earned decreased three percent in 2007, compared with 2006. This decrease was primarily due to decreased production, higher reinsurance costs, and changes in business mix, specifically the growth of energy lines which earn over a longer period than other types of business. Net premiums earned for ACE Global Markets were stable in 2006, compared with 2005, as the decrease in catastrophe related reinstatement premiums was offset by higher reinsurance costs in 2006, particularly on aviation, energy, property, and marine lines. Insurance Overseas General conducts business internationally and in most major foreign currencies. The following table summarizes the approximate effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the growth of net premiums written and earned for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. 2007 2006 Net premiums written: Growth in original currency 0.6% 2.7 % Foreign exchange effect 6.5% (1.0)% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 7.1% 1.7 % Net premiums earned: Growth in original currency 0.7% 2.3 % Foreign exchange effect 6.3% (0.4)% Growth as reported in U.S. dollars 7.0% 1.9 % 59 Table of Contents The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. 2007 2006 2005 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 52.4 % 52.3 % 60.9 % Catastrophe losses (2.0)% (0.1)% (5.2)% Prior period development 4.2 % 1.7 % (0.1)% Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 54.6 % 53.9 % 55.6 % Net catastrophe losses for 2007 were $94 million, compared with $3 million and $201 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In 2005, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. Insurance Overseas General incurred net favorable prior period development of $192 million and $72 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. This compares with net adverse prior period development of $5 million in 2005. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. Insurance Overseas Generals policy acquisition cost ratio has increased over the last three years primarily due to changes in business mix at ACE International, specifically the growth of A&H business, which typically attracts higher commission rates than other business. The increasing impact on policy acquisition costs from A&H growth was partially offset by increased ceding commissions on political, financial, and energy lines at ACE Global Markets. Insurance Overseas Generals administrative expense ratio increased in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to the impact of foreign exchange. Additionally, ACE International reported increased costs associated with its entrance into emerging markets, specifically Eastern Europe and the Middle East, and in support of A&H growth at Asia Pacific. The increase in 2006, compared with 2005, was primarily due to investments in global expansion including staff additions and infrastructure enhancements at ACE International. Global Reinsurance The Global Reinsurance segment represents ACEs reinsurance operations, comprising ACE Tempest Re Bermuda, ACE Tempest Re USA, ACE Tempest Re Europe, and ACE Tempest Re Canada. Global Reinsurance markets its reinsurance products worldwide under the ACE Tempest Re brand name and provides a broad range of coverages to a diverse array of primary P&C companies. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Net premiums written $ 1,197 $ 1,550 $ 1,546 Net premiums earned 1,299 1,511 1,531 Losses and loss expenses 664 784 1,402 Policy acquisition costs 248 303 300 Administrative expenses 64 62 60 Underwriting income (loss) 323 362 (231 ) Net investment income 274 221 173 Net realized gains (losses) 21 10 (4 ) Interest expense 3 Other (income) expense 4 8 11 Income tax expense 32 38 11 Net income (loss) $ 582 $ 547 $ (87 ) Loss and loss expense ratio 51.1% 51.8% 91.6% Policy acquisition cost ratio 19.1% 20.1% 19.6% Administrative expense ratio 4.9% 4.1% 3.9% Combined ratio 75.1% 76.0% 115.1% Global Reinsurances net premiums written decreased 23 percent in 2007, compared with 2006. During 2007, Global Reinsurance experienced intense competition across all of its regions of operations, which resulted in our not renewing several 60 Table of Contents large policies, as well as clients increasing their retentions. Net premiums written for the Global Reinsurance segment were stable in 2006 compared with 2005. For 2006, this segment benefited from increased rates on property catastrophe coverages following two years of unprecedented hurricane activity, partially offset by lower casualty rates in Europe, and the cancellation of a large property account in the U.S. The year ended December 31, 2005, was impacted by catastrophe related assumed reinstatement premiums, which increased net premiums written and earned by $46 million. The following two tables provide a line of business and entity/divisional breakdown of Global Reinsurances net premiums earned for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 % of total 2006 % of total 2005 % of total Line of Business Property and all other $ 285 22% $ 354 23% $ 354 23% Casualty 671 52% 799 52% 829 54% Property catastrophe 343 26% 358 25% 348 23% Net premiums earned $ 1,299 100% $ 1,511 100% $ 1,531 100% Entity/Division ACE Tempest Re Bermuda $ 356 27% $ 367 24% $ 349 23% ACE Tempest Re USA 693 53% 872 58% 887 58% ACE Tempest Re Europe 241 19% 272 18% 295 19% ACE Tempest Re Canada 9 1% % % Net premiums earned $ 1,299 100% $ 1,511 100% $ 1,531 100% Global Reinsurances net premiums earned decreased 14 percent in 2007, compared with 2006. This decrease was primarily due to lower 2007 production at ACE Tempest Re Bermuda, ACE Tempest Re USA, and ACE Tempest Re Europe. ACE Tempest Re Canada commenced writing business in 2007. Global Reinsurances net premiums earned decreased one percent in 2006, compared with 2005, primarily due to reduced assumed reinstatement premiums at ACE Tempest Re Bermuda and ACE Tempest Re Europe and the cancellation of a large homeowners account at ACE Tempest Re USA. The following table shows the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on our loss and loss expense ratio for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. 2007 2006 2005 Loss and loss expense ratio, as reported 51.1 % 51.8 % 91.6 % Catastrophe losses (3.8)% (0.9)% (37.7)% Prior period development 2.6 % 0.4 % 1.4 % Loss and loss expense ratio, adjusted 49.9 % 51.3 % 55.3 % Global Reinsurance recorded net catastrophe losses of $49 million in 2007. This compares with net catastrophe losses of $14 million and $601 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In 2005, the catastrophe losses were primarily associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. Global Reinsurance incurred net favorable prior period development of $34 million in 2007. This compares with net favorable prior period development of $5 million and $22 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Refer to Prior Period Development for more information. The remaining decreases to the loss and loss expense ratio in 2006 were primarily due to favorable current accident year experience on property business and changes in business mix. In 2006, there was a greater proportion of property and property catastrophe business and pro rata business, which generally carries a lower loss ratio than excess of loss business. Global Reinsurances policy acquisition cost ratio decreased in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to changes in business mix, and lower ceding commissions at ACE Tempest Re USA. The policy acquisition cost ratio increased for Global Reinsurance in 2006, compared with 2005, primarily due to higher ceding commissions at ACE Tempest Re USA and the impact on the prior year of catastrophe related assumed reinstatement premiums, which do not generate acquisition costs. Administrative expenses have been stable over the last three years. The administrative expense ratio increased over the last three years primarily due to the decrease in net premiums earned. 61 Table of Contents Life Insurance and Reinsurance Life Insurance and Reinsurance includes the operations of ACE Tempest Life Re (ACE Life Re) and ACE International Life (ACE Life). We assess the performance of our life insurance and reinsurance business based on life underwriting income which includes net investment income. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Net premiums written $ 381 $ 274 $ 248 Net premiums earned 368 274 248 Life and annuity benefits 168 123 143 Policy acquisition costs 45 26 24 Administrative expenses 50 35 19 Net investment income 55 42 36 Life underwriting income 160 132 98 Net realized gains (losses) (164 ) (36 ) 19 Other (income) expense 1 Income tax expense (benefit) (8 ) (6 ) (2 ) Net income $ 3 $ 102 $ 119 Life underwriting income increased 21 percent in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to the profitability of the Bermuda based non traditional reinsurance business and improvement in the profitability of run off disability reinsurance business. Additionally, there has been a slight decline in underwriting losses at ACE Life and the U.S. based traditional life reinsurance business due to growth in premiums and investment income during their early development. Net premiums earned overall increased 34 percent in 2007, compared with 2006. Life Insurance and Reinsurances administrative expenses increased primarily due to increased expenses to support business development opportunities at ACE Life and the U.S. based traditional life reinsurance business, which was launched in 2006. Net realized gains (losses) primarily consist of changes in reported liabilities on GMIB reinsurance carried at fair value and, to a lesser extent, sales of invested assets. For 2007, substantially all of the realized loss related to an increase in reported liabilities on GMIB reinsurance resulting from adverse financial market conditions, including a reduction in long term interest rates, and an increase in implied volatility for both equities and interest rates. Life underwriting income increased 35 percent in 2006, compared with 2005. Net premiums earned increased 10 percent primarily due to growth in variable annuity business at ACE Life Re and ACE Lifes international operations. Life and annuity benefits declined due to favorable experience on variable annuity business combined with a decrease in group long term disability business, which typically incurs higher benefit ratios than other types of business.  Net Investment Income (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Fixed maturities $ 1,773 $ 1,463 $ 1,170 Short term investments 130 119 86 Equity securities 68 57 50 Other 25 26 22 Gross investment income 1,996 1,665 1,328 Investment expenses (78 ) (64 ) (64 ) Net investment income $ 1,918 $ 1,601 $ 1,264 Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors, including the amounts and timing of inward and outward cash flows, the level of interest rates, and changes in overall asset allocation. Net investment income increased 20 percent in 2007, compared with 2006, and 27 percent in 2006, compared with 2005. The increase in net investment income is primarily due to several years of positive operating cash flows which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. The investment portfolios average market yield on fixed maturities was 5.3 percent at December 31, 2007, compared 62 Table of Contents with 5.4 percent and 5.0 percent at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The following table shows the return on average invested assets for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Average invested assets $ 38,804 $ 34,007 $ 29,118 Net investment income $ 1,918 $ 1,601 $ 1,264 Return on average invested assets 4.9% 4.7% 4.3% Net Realized Gains (Losses) We take a long term view with our investment strategy and our investment managers manage our investment portfolio to maximize total return within certain specific guidelines designed to minimize risk. The majority of our investment portfolio is available for sale and reported at fair value. Our held to maturity investment portfolio is reported at amortized cost. The effect of market movements on our available for sale investment portfolio impacts net income (through net realized gains (losses)) when securities are sold or when other than temporary impairments are recorded on invested assets. Additionally, net income is impacted through the reporting of changes in the fair value of derivatives, including financial futures, options, swaps, and GMIB reinsurance. Changes in unrealized appreciation and depreciation on available for sale securities, which result from the revaluation of securities held, are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. The following table presents our pre tax net realized gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Fixed maturities $ (98 ) $ (220 ) $ (45 ) Equity securities 162 163 76 Foreign exchange gains (losses) 4 (13 ) Other 37 28 4 Sale of run off reinsurance subsidiaries (23 ) Derivatives: Equity and fixed income derivatives (19 ) (18 ) 12 Fair value adjustment on insurance derivatives (147 ) (15 ) 29 Subtotal derivatives (166 ) (33 ) 41 Total net realized gains (losses) $ (61 ) $ (98 ) $ 76 Subject to investment guidelines approved by our Finance and Investment Committee of the Board of Directors (relating to asset classes, credit quality, and liquidity), our investment managers generally have the ability to sell securities from our available for sale investment portfolio with the concurrence of ACE management when they determine that an alternative security with comparable risks is likely to provide a higher investment return, considering the realized gain or loss on sale of the held security and differential in future investment income. Often, sales of individual securities occur when investment managers conclude there are changes in the credit quality of a particular security or, for other reasons, market value is apt to deteriorate. Further, we may sell securities when we conclude it is prudent to reduce a concentration in a particular issuer or industry. Therefore, securities sales volume may increase in a volatile credit market in which credit spreads and, thus, the market value of fixed maturity investments are subject to significant changes in a short period of time. The interest rate environment will tend to have a limited effect on securities sales volume but extreme conditions could have an effect on the magnitude of realized gains or losses. For example, in a declining interest rate environment, the market value of securities increases, resulting in a greater likelihood of net realized gains and we would, therefore, tend to reduce the average duration of our fixed maturity investment portfolio. An increasing interest rate environment would tend to have the opposite effect. The effect of a high level of realized losses or gains for a particular period will tend to be offset by increases or decreases in investment income, respectively, in subsequent periods. From a liquidity perspective, our greatest risk is that we could be forced to sell a large volume of securities at a loss (i.e., in a high interest rate environment) to meet operating needs and are, thus, unable to reinvest proceeds to recoup such losses with future investment income (Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information). 63 Table of Contents In 2007, we recorded net realized losses of $166 million on derivative transactions. This compares with a net realized loss of $33 million and a net realized gain of $41 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. For a sensitivity discussion of the effect of changes in interest rates and equity indices on the fair value of derivatives and the resulting impact on our net income, refer to Item 7A. We regularly review our investment portfolio for possible impairment based on criteria including economic conditions, credit loss experience, and issuer specific developments. If there is a decline in a securitys net realizable value, we must determine whether that decline is temporary or other than temporary. If we believe a decline in the value of a particular investment is temporary, we record it as an unrealized loss in our shareholders equity. If we believe the decline is other than temporary, we write down the book value of the investment and record a net realized loss in our statement of operations. The decision to recognize a decline in the value of a security carried at fair value as other than temporary rather than temporary has no impact on our book value. Once a security is identified as having a potential other than temporary impairment, we determine whether or not cost will ultimately be recovered and whether we have the intent and ability to hold the security until an expected recovery period, absent a significant change in facts that is expected to have a material adverse financial effect on the issuer. The process of determining whether a decline in value is temporary or other than temporary requires considerable judgment and differs depending on whether or not the security is traded on a public market as well as by type of security. We review all of our fixed maturities and equity securities for potential impairment each quarter. Refer to Note 3 e) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for criteria we consider in assessing potential impairment and for a table which summarizes all of our securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2007 and 2006. Our net realized losses in 2007 included write downs of $141 million as a result of conditions which caused us to conclude that the decline in fair value was other than temporary. This compares with write downs of $214 million and $88 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The impairments were primarily due to an increase in market interest rates from the date of security purchase and as such, were not credit related. A breakdown of write downs by security type is included in Note 3 f) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. Other Income and Expense Items Years Ended December 31 (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 2005 Equity in net (income) loss of partially owned companies $ 39 $ (60) $ (60) Minority interest (income) expense 7 8 16 Federal excise tax 18 10 7 Other 17 7 12 Other (income) expense $ 81 $ (35) $ (25) Other (income) expense is primarily comprised of our equity in net income of Assured Guaranty Ltd. (included in equity in net income of partially owned companies). During 2007, Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) recorded mark to market losses in its credit derivatives portfolio, our portion of which was $122 million. These losses were reported as realized losses by AGO. Our relationship with AGO is limited to our equity investment, which had a carrying value of $392 million at December 31, 2007. We conduct no financial guaranty business directly or with AGO and we retain no financial guaranty exposures with AGO. For more information, refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors under Liquidity and Investments. Other income and expense also includes certain excise taxes incurred as a result of capital management initiatives. These transactions are considered capital in nature and are excluded from underwriting results. Investments Our principal investment objective is to ensure that funds are available to meet our insurance and reinsurance obligations. Within this broad liquidity constraint, the purpose of our investment portfolios structure is to maximize total return subject to specifically approved guidelines of overall asset classes, credit quality, liquidity, and volatility of expected returns. Our investment portfolio is invested primarily in fixed income securities with an average credit quality of AA, as rated by the independent investment rating service Standard and Poors (S&P). The portfolio is externally managed by independent, professional investment managers. The average duration of our fixed income securities, including the effect of options and swaps, was 3.5 years 64 Table of Contents at December 31, 2007, compared with 3.3 years at December 31, 2006. We estimate that a 100 basis point (bps) increase in interest rates would reduce our book value by approximately $1.3 billion. Our Other investments are principally comprised of direct investments, investment funds, and limited partnerships. Our exposure to sub prime asset backed securities was $135 million at December 31, 2007, which represented less than one percent of our investment portfolio. We do not expect any material investment loss from our exposure to sub prime mortgages. We hold no collateralized debt obligations or collateralized loan obligations in our investment portfolio. The following table shows the fair value and cost/amortized cost of our invested assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006. 2007 2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Fair Value Cost/Amortized Cost Fair Value Cost/Amortized Cost Fixed maturities available for sale $ 33,184 $ 32,994 $ 28,540 $ 28,389 Fixed maturities held to maturity 3,015 2,987 3,015 3,047 Short term investments 2,631 2,631 2,456 2,456 38,830 38,612 34,011 33,892 Equity securities 1,837 1,618 1,713 1,372 Other investments 1,140 880 845 661 Total investments $ 41,807 $ 41,110 $ 36,569 $ 35,925 The fair value of our total investments increased $5.3 billion in 2007, compared with 2006, primarily due to the investment of $4.3 billion of positive cash flows in the current period. The following tables show the market value of our fixed maturities and short term investments at December 31, 2007 and 2006. The first table lists investments according to type and the second according to S&P credit rating. 2007 2006 (in millions of U.S. dollars) Market Value Percentage ofTotal Market Value Percentage ofTotal Treasury $ 1,145 3% $ 1,322 4% Agency 1,820 5% 2,207 7% Corporate 9,015 23% 7,394 22% Mortgage backed securities 13,733 35% 11,346 33% Asset backed securities 1,150 3% 2,020 6% Municipal 1,844 5% 809 2% Non U.S. 7,492 19% 6,457 19% Short term investments 2,631 7% 2,456 7% Total $ 38,830 100% $ 34,011 100% AAA $ 24,553 63% $ 22,471 66% AA 3,747 10% 2,725 8% A 4,590 12% 3,909 12% BBB 3,297 8% 2,498 7% BB 1,073 3% 943 3% B 1,481 4% 1,365 4% Other 89 100 Total $ 38,830 100% $ 34,011 100% Municipal bond portfolio With regard to our $1.8 billion municipal bond portfolio, financial guarantee companies insure approximately $850 million. These investments are made based on the underlying credit of the issuer and, as such, any decline in value because of a downgrade of bond insurers would be minimal. For example, without the AAA insurance guarantees, the average rating of this portfolio would fall to AA from AA+, which would result in a nominal decline in value. We would expect a similar market impact from the loss of AAA insurance guarantees on our $250 million in other investments wrapped by financial guarantors. 65 Table of Contents Mortgage backed and asset backed securities Additional details on the mortgage backed and asset backed components of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2007, are provided below: Mortgage backed and Asset backed Securities Market Value S&P Credit Rating (in millions of U.S. dollars) AAA AA A BBB BBand below Total Mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed (RMBS) GNMA $ 395 $ $ $ $ $ 395 FNMA 5,330 5,330 Freddie Mac 2,287 2,287 Total agency RMBS 8,012 8,012 Non agency RMBS 3,070 11 1 12 3,094 Total RMBS 11,082 11 1 12 11,106 Commercial mortgage backed 2,611 3 10 3 2,627 Total mortgage backed securities $ 13,693 $ 14 $ 11 $ 15 $ $ 13,733 Asset backed securities Sub prime $ 125 $ 2 $ 8 $ $ $ 135 Credit Cards 76 17 8 101 Autos 621 27 8 656 Other 255 3 258 Total asset backed securities $ 1,077 $ 29 $ 36 $ 8 $ $ 1,150 Mortgage backed and Asset backed Securities Book Value S&P Credit Rating (in millions of U.S. dollars) AAA AA A BBB BB and below Total Mortgage backed securities Residential mortgage backed (RMBS) GNMA $ 390 $ $ $ $ $ 390 FNMA 5,272 5,272 Freddie Mac 2,259 2,259 Total agency RMBS 7,921 7,921 Non agency RMBS 3,066 11 1 12 3,090 Total RMBS 10,987 11 1 12 11,011 Commercial mortgage backed 2,574 3 10 3 2,590 Total mortgage backed securities $ 13,561 $ 14 $ 11 $ 15 $ $ 13,601 Asset backed securities Sub prime $ 135 $ 2 $ 8 $ $ $ 145 Credit Cards 74 17 8 99 Autos 619 27 7 653 Other 254 3 257 Total asset backed securities $ 1,082 $ 29 $ 35 $ 8 $ $ 1,154 66 Table of Contents Below investment grade securities In accordance with our investment process, we invest in below investment grade securities through dedicated investment portfolios actively managed by external investment managers that have investment professionals specifically dedicated to this asset class. At December 31, 2007, our fixed income investment portfolio included below investment grade and non rated securities which, in total, comprised approximately seven percent of our fixed income portfolio. We define a security as being below investment grade if it has an S&P credit rating of BB or less. Our below investment grade and non rated portfolio includes approximately 800 issues, with the top 15 holdings making up approximately 12 percent of the $2.6 billion balance at December 31, 2007. The greatest single exposure in this portfolio of securities is $28 million. Below investment grade securities have different characteristics than investment grade corporate debt securities. Risk of loss from default by the borrower is greater with below investment grade securities. Below investment grade securities are generally unsecured and are often subordinated to other creditors of the issuer. Also, issuers of below investment grade securities usually have higher levels of debt and are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as recession or increasing interest rates, than are investment grade issuers. We reduce the overall risk in the below investment grade portfolio, as in all investments, through careful credit analysis, strict investment policy guidelines, and diversification by issuer and or guarantor as well as by industry. Restricted Assets We are required to maintain assets on deposit with various regulatory authorities to support our insurance and reinsurance operations. These requirements are generally promulgated in the statutory regulations of the individual jurisdictions. The assets on deposit are available to settle insurance and reinsurance liabilities. We also utilize trust funds in certain large transactions where the trust funds are set up for the benefit of the ceding companies and generally take the place of letter of credit (LOC) requirements. We also have investments in segregated portfolios primarily to provide collateral or guarantees for LOCs and debt instruments. Refer to Notes 8 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. The following table identifies the value of restricted assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 Deposits with U.S. regulatory authorities $ 1,068 $ 999 Deposits with non U.S. regulatory authorities 2,101 1,968 Assets used for collateral or guarantees 1,116 1,045 Trust funds 4,349 3,008 $ 8,634 $ 7,020 The value of restricted assets increased 23 percent in 2007 compared with 2006, primarily due to an assumed loss portfolio contract (written during the first quarter of 2007) and the increased use of trust funds in support of U.S. managed business ceded by U.S. insurance entities of ACE USA to ACE Tempest Re Bermuda. Reinsurance Recoverable on Ceded Reinsurance The composition of our reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2007 and 2006, is as follows: (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses $ 13,990 $ 13,903 Provision for uncollectible reinsurance on unpaid losses and loss expenses (470 ) (394 ) Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses, net of a provision for uncollectible reinsurance 13,520 13,509 Reinsurance recoverable on paid losses and loss expenses 1,050 1,316 Provision for uncollectible reinsurance on paid losses and loss expenses (216 ) (255 ) Reinsurance recoverable on future policy benefits 8 10 Net reinsurance recoverable $ 14,362 $ 14,580 We evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and potential reinsurers on a regular basis and also monitor concentrations of credit risk with reinsurers. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is required principally due to the failure of reinsurers to indemnify us, primarily because of disputes under reinsurance contracts and insolvencies. Provisions have been established for amounts estimated to be uncollectible. 67 Table of Contents Asbestos and Environmental and Other Run off Liabilities Included in our liabilities for losses and loss expenses are amounts for A&E. These A&E liabilities principally relate to claims arising from bodily injury claims related to asbestos products and remediation costs associated with hazardous waste sites. The estimation of these liabilities is particularly sensitive to future changes in the legal, social, and economic environment. We have not assumed any such future changes in setting the value of our A&E reserves, which include provisions for both reported and IBNR claims. Our exposure to A&E claims principally arises out of liabilities acquired when we purchased Westchester Specialty in 1998 and the P&C business of CIGNA in 1999, with the larger exposure contained within the liabilities acquired in the CIGNA transaction. In 1996, prior to our acquisition of the P&C business of CIGNA, the Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner approved a plan to restructure INA Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the Restructuring) which included the division of Insurance Company of North America (INA) into two separate corporations: (1) an active insurance company that retained the INA name and continued to write P&C business and (2) an inactive run off company, now called Century Indemnity Company (Century). As a result of the division, predominantly all A&E and certain other liabilities of INA were allocated to Century and extinguished, as a matter of Pennsylvania law, as liabilities of INA. As part of the Restructuring, most A&E liabilities of various U.S. affiliates of INA were reinsured to Century, and Century and certain other run off companies having A&E and other liabilities were contributed to Brandywine Holdings. As part of the 1999 acquisition of the P&C business of CIGNA, we acquired Brandywine Holdings and its various subsidiaries. For more information refer to Brandywine Run Off Entities below. The table below presents a roll forward of our consolidated A&E loss reserves, allocated and unallocated loss expense reserves for A&E exposures, and the provision for uncollectible reinsurance for the year ended December 31, 2007. Asbestos Environmental Total (in millions of U.S. dollars) Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 3,221 $ 1,611 $ 489 $ 433 $ 3,710 $ 2,044 Incurred activity (6 ) (6 ) Payment activity (284 ) (115 ) (71 ) (40 ) (355 ) (155 ) Foreign currency revaluation 5 2 5 2 Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 2,942 $ 1,492 $ 418 $ 393 $ 3,360 $ 1,885 The A&E net loss reserves including allocated and unallocated loss expense reserves and provision for uncollectible reinsurance at December 31, 2007, of $1.885 billion shown in the above table are comprised of $1.323 billion in reserves held by Brandywine run off companies, $224 million of reserves held by Westchester Specialty, $169 million of reserves held by ACE Bermuda, $148 million of reserves held by Insurance Overseas General, and $21 million of reserves held by active ACE USA companies. The net figures in the above table reflect third party reinsurance other than reinsurance provided by NICO under three aggregate excess of loss contracts described below (collectively, the NICO contracts). We exclude the NICO contracts as they cover non A&E liabilities as well as A&E liabilities. The split of coverage provided under the NICO contracts for A&E liabilities as compared to non A&E liabilities is entirely dependant on the timing of the payment of the related claims. Our ability to make an estimate of this split is not practicable. We believe, instead, that the A&E discussion is best provided excluding the NICO contracts, while separately discussing the NICO contracts in relation to the total subject business, both A&E and non A&E, covered by those contracts. With certain exceptions, the NICO contracts provide coverage for our net A&E incurred losses and allocated loss expenses within the limits of coverage and above ACEs retention levels. These exceptions include losses arising from certain operations of Insurance Overseas General and participations by ACE Bermuda as a co reinsurer or retrocessionaire in the NICO contracts. Brandywine run off impact of NICO contracts on ACEs run off liabilities As part of the acquisition of CIGNAs P&C business, NICO provided $2.5 billion of reinsurance protection to Century on all Brandywine loss and allocated loss adjustment expense reserves and on the A&E reserves of various ACE INA insurance subsidiaries reinsured by Century (in each case, including uncollectible reinsurance). The benefits of this NICO contract (the Brandywine NICO Agreement) flow to the other Brandywine companies and to the ACE INA insurance subsidiaries through agreements between those companies and Century. The Brandywine NICO Agreement was exhausted on an incurred basis in the fourth quarter of 2002. 68 Table of Contents The following table presents a roll forward of net loss reserves, allocated and unallocated loss adjustment expense reserves, and provision for uncollectible reinsurance in respect of Brandywine operations only, including the impact of the Brandywine NICO Agreement. The table presents Brandywine incurred activity for the year ended December 31, 2007. Brandywine NICOCoverage(3) Net of NICOCoverage (in millions of U.S. dollars) A&E(1) Other(2) Total Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 1,503 $ 1,101 $ 2,604 $ 1,811 $ 793 Incurred activity (8 ) 33 25 25 Payment activity (172 ) (94 ) (266 ) (214 ) (52 ) Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 1,323 $ 1,040 $ 2,363 $ 1,597 $ 766 (1) The balance at December 31, 2006, has been reduced by $25 million of provision for uncollectible reinsurance as this balance was unrelated to A&E exposures. (2) Other consists primarily of workers compensation, non A&E general liability losses, and provision for uncollectible reinsurance on non A&E business. (3) The balance at December 31, 2006, has been adjusted by $104 million to reflect a change in reporting to an incurred basis from a cash received basis. The Brandywine A&E incurred benefit of $8 million was a result of a recovery recorded on a casualty clash reinsurance cover. The Brandywine Other incurred loss of $33 million is principally comprised of a reclassification of bad debt charges of $26 million from our active company run off operations to Brandywine. Reserve reviews During 2007, we conducted an internal review of our consolidated A&E liabilities as of June 30, 2007. As a result of the internal review, we concluded that our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, were adequate and, therefore, no change to the carried reserve was required. An internal review was also conducted during 2006 for our consolidated A&E liabilities as of June 30, 2006. For that review, we concluded that our net loss reserves for the Brandywine operations, including A&E, were adequate and, therefore, no change to the carried net reserve was required, while the gross loss reserves increased by approximately $210 million. In 2006, a team of external actuaries performed an evaluation as to the adequacy of the reserves of Century. This external review was conducted in accordance with the Brandywine Restructuring Order, which requires that an external actuarial review of Centurys reserves be completed every two years. The results of the external review were addressed with the Pennsylvania Insurance Department and no changes to statutory basis loss reserves were deemed necessary. Our A&E reserves are not discounted and do not reflect any anticipated future changes in the legal, social, or economic environment, or any benefit from future legislative reforms. Westchester Specialty impact of NICO contracts on ACEs run off liabilities As part of the acquisition of Westchester Specialty in 1998, NICO provided a 75 percent pro rata share of $1 billion of reinsurance protection on losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred on or before December 31, 1996, in excess of a retention of $721 million (the 1998 NICO Agreement). NICO has also provided an 85 percent pro rata share of $150 million of reinsurance protection on losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses incurred on or before December 31, 1992, in excess of a retention of $755 million (the 1992 NICO Agreement). At December 31, 2007, the remaining unused incurred limit under the 1998 NICO Agreement was $488 million, which is only available for losses and loss adjustment expenses. The 1992 NICO Agreement is exhausted on an incurred basis. The following table presents a roll forward of net loss reserves, allocated and unallocated loss adjustment expense reserves, and provision for uncollectible reinsurance in respect of 1996 and prior Westchester Specialty operations that are the subject business of the NICO covers. The table presents incurred activity for the year ended December 31, 2007. Westchester Specialty NICOCoverage(3) Net ofNICOCoverage (in millions of U.S. dollars) A&E(1) Other(2) Total Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 221 $ 147 $ 368 $ 327 $ 41 Incurred activity 2 2 2 Payment activity 3 (29 ) (26 ) (29 ) 3 Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 224 $ 120 $ 344 $ 298 $ 46 (1) The balance at December 31, 2006, has been reduced by $50 million of reinsurance recoverable as this balance was unrelated to A&E exposures. (2) Other consists primarily of non A&E general liability and products liability losses. (3) The balance at December 31, 2006, has been adjusted by $19 million to reflect a change in reporting to an incurred basis from a cash received basis. 69 Table of Contents Reserving considerations For asbestos, we face claims relating to policies issued to manufacturers, distributors, installers, and other parties in the chain of commerce for asbestos and products containing asbestos. Claims can be filed by individual claimants or groups of claimants with the potential for hundreds of individual claimants at one time. Claimants will generally allege damages across an extended time period which may coincide with multiple policies for a single insured. Environmental claims present exposure for remediation and defense costs associated with the contamination of property as a result of pollution. It is common, especially for larger defendants, to be named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at multiple sites. Our environmental claim count definition is based on policyholder by site numbers. For example, if a policyholder were named as a PRP at 10 pollution sites, we would track this as 10 claim counts. In addition, should we have multiple policyholders identified as PRPs at the same waste site, each would constitute a separate claim count. The table below summarizes count information for asbestos and environmental claims for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, for direct policies only, and excludes claims from assumed reinsurance. 2007 2006 Asbestos (by causative agent) Open at the beginning of year 1,391 1,349 Newly reported 87 80 Closed or otherwise disposed 309 38 Open at end of year 1,169 1,391 Environmental (by site) Open at the beginning of year 6,424 6,902 Newly reported 206 220 Closed or otherwise disposed 1,498 698 Open at end of year 5,132 6,424 In 2007, the number of newly reported asbestos claims rose nine percent to 87, compared with 80 new claims in 2006. The total pending asbestos claims decreased 16 percent to 1,169 at December 31, 2007, compared with 1,391 at December 31, 2006. This decrease in pending claims is influenced by the number of closings during the period. This decrease in claims was attributable, in part, to the formal closing of files that had been inactive for some time. A review of the inactive files revealed that payment was no longer sought on the files, therefore, the files were closed. In 2007, the number of newly reported environmental claims continued the decline experienced in recent years. The number of new sites in 2007 declined six percent to 206, compared with 220 in 2006. Total pending environmental claims at December 31, 2007, declined 20 percent to 5,132, compared with 6,424 at December 31, 2006. This decrease in claims was attributable, in part, to the formal closing of files that had been inactive for some time. A review of the inactive files revealed that payment was no longer sought on the files, therefore, the files were closed. The following table shows our gross and net survival ratios for our A&E loss reserves and ALAE reserves at December 31, 2007. 2007 Survival Ratios 2006 Survival Ratios 3 Year 1 Year 3 Year 1 Year Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Asbestos 10.2 10.7 10.6 10.6 10.9 10.5 8.8 7.6 Environmental 4.5 6.6 5.7 9.8 4.0 6.0 5.8 6.7 Total 8.9 9.3 9.6 10.4 8.9 8.9 8.3 7.4 The net ratios reflect third party reinsurance other than the aggregate excess reinsurance provided under the NICO contracts. These survival ratios are calculated by dividing the asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE reserves by the average asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments for the three most recent calendar years (3 year survival ratio), and by asbestos or environmental loss and ALAE payments in 2007 (1 year survival ratio). The survival ratios provide only a very rough measure of reserve adequacy and are significantly impacted by a number of factors such as aggressive settlement practices, variations in gross to ceded relationships within the asbestos or environmental claims and levels of coverage provided. We, therefore, 70 Table of Contents urge caution in using these very simplistic ratios to gauge reserve adequacy and note that the 1 year survival ratios, particularly, are likely to move considerably from year to year for the reasons just described. Three year gross and net survival ratios remained relatively consistent with the comparable three year ratios at December 31, 2006. The 1 year net survival ratio for asbestos increased to 10.6 from 7.6 in 2006. The 2006 net 1 year survival ratio for asbestos was adversely affected by a favorable settlement that resulted in a full buyback of policy obligations on a significant account that resulted in a large increase in payments for the year. Brandywine run off entities In addition to housing a significant portion of our A&E exposure, the Brandywine operations include run off liabilities related to various insurance and reinsurance businesses. The following companies comprise ACEs Brandywine operations: Century (a Pennsylvania insurer), Century Re (a Pennsylvania insurer), and Century International Reinsurance Company Ltd. (a Bermuda insurer (CIRC)). All of the Brandywine companies are direct or indirect subsidiaries of Brandywine Holdings. The U.S. based ACE INA companies assumed two contractual obligations in respect of the Brandywine operations in connection with the Restructuring: a dividend retention fund obligation and a surplus maintenance obligation in the form of an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement. In accordance with the Brandywine restructuring order, INA Financial Corporation established and funded a dividend retention fund (the Dividend Retention Fund) consisting of $50 million plus investment earnings. The full balance of the Dividend Retention Fund was contributed to Century as of December 31, 2002. To the extent future dividends are paid by INA Holdings Corporation to its parent, INA Financial Corporation, and to the extent INA Financial Corporation then pays such dividends to INA Corporation, a portion of those dividends must be withheld to replenish the principal of the Dividend Retention Fund to $50 million within five years. In 2007, 2006, and 2005, no such dividends were paid and, therefore, no replenishment of the Dividend Retention Fund occurred. The obligation to maintain and to replenish the Dividend Retention Fund as necessary and to the extent dividends are paid is ongoing until ACE INA receives prior written approval from the Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner to terminate the fund. In addition, an ACE INA insurance subsidiary provided reinsurance coverage to Century in the amount of $800 million under an aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement (the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement) if the statutory capital and surplus of Century falls below $25 million or if Century lacks liquid assets with which to pay claims as they become due, after giving effect to the contribution of the balance, if any, of the Dividend Retention Fund. Coverage under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement was triggered as of December 31, 2002, following contribution of the balance of the Dividend Retention Fund, because Centurys capital and surplus fell below $25 million at December 31, 2002. Effective December 31, 2004, ACE INA Holdings contributed $100 million to Century in exchange for a surplus note. After giving effect to the contribution and issuance of the surplus note, the statutory surplus of Century at December 31, 2007, was $25 million and approximately $321 million in statutory basis losses were ceded to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement. Century reports the amount ceded under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement in accordance with statutory accounting principles, which differ from GAAP by, among other things, allowing Century to discount its asbestos and environmental reserves. For GAAP reporting purposes, intercompany reinsurance recoverables related to the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement are eliminated upon consolidation. To estimate ACEs remaining claim exposure under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement on a GAAP basis, we adjust the statutory cession to exclude the discount embedded in statutory loss reserves and we adjust the statutory provision for uncollectible reinsurance to a GAAP basis amount. At December 31, 2007, approximately $572 million in GAAP basis losses were ceded under the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement, leaving a remaining limit of coverage under that agreement of approximately $228 million. At December 31, 2006, the remaining limit of coverage under the agreement was $255 million. While we believe ACE has no legal obligation to fund losses above the Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement limit of coverage, ACEs consolidated results would nevertheless continue to include any losses above the limit of coverage for so long as the Brandywine companies remain consolidated subsidiaries of ACE. Uncertainties relating to ACEs ultimate Brandywine exposure In addition to the Dividend Retention Fund and Aggregate Excess of Loss Agreement commitments described above, certain ACE entities are primarily liable for asbestos, environmental, and other exposures that they have reinsured to Century. Accordingly, if Century were to become insolvent and ACE were to lose control of Century, some or all of the recoverables due to these ACE companies from Century could become uncollectible, yet those ACE entities would continue to be responsible to pay claims to their insureds or reinsureds. Under such circumstances, ACE would recognize a loss in its consolidated statement of operations. As of December 31, 2007, the aggregate reinsurance balances ceded by the active ACE companies to Century were approximately $1.5 billion. At December 31, 2007, Centurys carried gross reserves (including reserves ceded by the active ACE companies to Century) were $3.5 billion. We believe the intercompany reinsurance recoverables, which relate to 71 Table of Contents liabilities payable over many years (i.e., 25 years or more), are not impaired at this time. A substantial portion of the liabilities ceded to Century by its affiliates have in turn been ceded by Century to NICO and, as of December 31, 2007, approximately $1.6 billion of cover remains on a paid basis. Should Centurys loss reserves experience adverse development in the future and should Century be placed into rehabilitation or liquidation, the reinsurance recoverables due from Century to its affiliates would be payable only after the payment in full of certain expenses and liabilities, including administrative expenses and direct policy liabilities. Thus, the intercompany reinsurance recoverables would be at risk to the extent of the shortage of assets remaining to pay these recoverables. As of December 31, 2007, losses ceded by Century to the active ACE companies and other amounts owed to Century by the active ACE companies were approximately $523 million in the aggregate. Sale of Certain Brandywine Companies Refer to Note 9 i) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8.  Catastrophe Management We continue to closely monitor our catastrophe accumulation around the world and have significantly reduced our U.S. wind exposure since 2005. Our modeled annual aggregate 1 in 100 year return period U.S. hurricane probable maximum loss, net of reinsurance is approximately $918 million; i.e., there is a one percent chance that ACEs losses incurred in any year from U.S. hurricanes could be in excess of $918 million (or less than six percent of our total shareholders equity at December 31, 2007). We estimate that at such loss levels, aggregate industry losses are approximately $133 billion. If the 2005 hurricanes were to recur, our net losses on an as if basis would be 30 percent lower. ACEs modeled losses reflect our in force portfolio and catastrophe reinsurance program as of October 1, 2007. The modeling estimates of both ACE and industry loss levels are inherently uncertain owing to key assumptions. First, while the use of third party catastrophe modeling packages to simulate hurricane losses is prevalent within the insurance industry, the models are reliant upon significant meteorology and engineering assumptions to estimate hurricane losses. In particular, modeled hurricane events are not always a representation of actual events and ensuing additional loss potential. Second, there is no universal standard in the preparation of insured data for use in the models and the running of the modeling software. Third, we are reliant upon third party estimates of industry insured exposures and there is significant variation possible around the relationship between ACEs loss and that of the industry following an event. Fourth, we assume that our reinsurance recoveries following an event are fully collectible. These loss estimates do not represent ACEs potential maximum exposures and it is highly likely that ACEs actual incurred losses would vary materially from the modeled estimates.  Natural Catastrophe Reinsurance Program ACEs core catastrophe reinsurance program provides protection against natural catastrophes impacting its primary operations (i.e., excluding assumed reinsurance) and consists of two separate towers. First, for losses arising out of North America, our core traditional program renewed on January 1, 2008, and we purchased $123 million part of $300 million excess of $200 million in coverage and we purchased $118 million part of $200 million excess of $300 million in coverage. We also purchased $9 million part of $100 million excess of $200 million retention. The combined effect of our traditional program purchase is that we have 50 percent of $100 million excess of $200 million in coverage placed and we have 100 percent of $200 million excess of $300 million layer placed. In addition, we have purchased a reinsurance treaty that provides $100 million part of $175 million in coverage for U.S. property perils other than U.S. wind excess of $500 million. This cover essentially replaces a swap agreement that was effective at January 1, 2007, and provided us certain earthquake protection. Each program noted above has a single reinstatement available. In addition to the foregoing, we have in place a multi year, peril specific program from a major reinsurer that is backed by their credit worthiness and the issuance of fully collateralized catastrophe bonds. Under this multi year coverage, we have $200 million of U.S. hurricane coverage in excess of $504 million attachment point. In addition, we have purchased U.S. earthquake coverage with a territorial scope of California, the Pacific Northwest, and the central U.S. This cover is 25 percent of $200 million of loss incurred in excess of $683 million attachment point. Finally, we also purchased a combined U.S. earthquake (covering the three territories noted above) and U.S. hurricane top layer cover of $100 million part of $150 million of loss incurred in excess of an $817 million attachment point. These multi year programs do not have a reinstatement feature. To keep the expected loss the same each year of these multi year covers, the attachment point is adjusted annually, either up or down, based upon an independent modeling firms review of the exposure data underlying each program. As noted above, we did not renew the swap agreement and instead purchased a like amount of coverage in the traditional reinsurance marketplace. By way of comparison, the 2007 program has potentially approximately $36 million less in coverage for U.S. hurricane and Cal 72 Table of Contents ifornia earthquake than the expiring program. We consider our effective retention to be approximately $250 million but this will depend upon the nature of the loss and the interplay between the underlying per risk programs and certain other coverages purchased by individual business units. Second, for losses arising outside of North America and effective July 1, 2007, our core program is made up of two layers. We have protection of $100 million from a single catastrophic event in excess of the retention of $50 million with two reinstatements. In addition, we have another layer that provides $100 million in protection excess of $150 million with one reinstatement. There is further protection above this core program for specific geographic regions, being $100 million excess of $250 million for Asia Pacific and $150 million excess of $250 million for Europe. Each of these top layers has a single reinstatement. In addition, there are various underlying per risk and catastrophe treaties underlying the core programs retention of $50 million. In comparison to the prior year, the core program and the specific layer for Asia Pacific were each reduced by $50 million, and the Europe specific layer was increased by $50 million.  Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate cash flows sufficient to meet short term and long term cash requirements of its business operations. As a holding company, ACE Limited possesses assets that consist primarily of the stock of its subsidiaries and other investments. In addition to net investment income, our cash flows currently depend primarily on dividends or other statutorily permissible payments. Historically, these dividends and other payments have come from ACEs Bermuda based operating subsidiaries, which we refer to as our Bermuda subsidiaries. As an insurance company, one of our principal responsibilities to our clients is to ensure that we have ready access to funds to settle large unforeseen claims. We expect that positive cash flows from operations (underwriting activities and investment income) will be sufficient to cover cash outflows under most loss scenarios through 2008. To further ensure the sufficiency of funds to settle unforeseen claims, we hold a certain amount of invested assets in cash and short term investments and maintain available credit facilities (refer to the section entitled Credit Facilities below). In addition, for certain insurance, reinsurance, or deposit contracts that tend to have relatively large and reasonably predictable cash outflows, we attempt to establish dedicated portfolios of assets that are duration matched with the related liabilities. With respect to the duration of our overall investment portfolio, we manage asset durations to both maximize return given current market conditions and provide sufficient liquidity to cover future loss payments. In a low interest rate environment, the overall duration of our fixed maturity investments tends to be shorter and in a high interest rate environment, such durations tend to be longer. Given the current low rate environment, at December 31, 2007, the average duration of our fixed maturity investments (3.5 years) is less than the average expected duration of our insurance liabilities (3.8 years). Despite our safeguards, if paid losses accelerated beyond our ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows, we might need to either liquidate a portion of our investment portfolio or arrange for financing. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could include several significant catastrophes occurring in a relatively short period of time or large scale uncollectible reinsurance recoverables on paid losses (as a result of coverage disputes, reinsurers credit problems or, decreases in the value of collateral supporting reinsurance recoverables). Additional strain on liquidity could occur if the investments sold to fund loss payments were sold at depressed prices. Because each subsidiary focuses on a more limited number of specific product lines than is collectively available from the ACE Group of Companies, the mix of business tends to be less diverse at the subsidiary level. As a result, the probability of a liquidity strain, as described above, may be greater for individual subsidiaries than when liquidity is assessed on a consolidated basis. If such a liquidity strain were to occur in a subsidiary, we could liquidate a portion of the portfolio as well as be required to contribute capital to the particular subsidiary and or curtail dividends from the subsidiary to support holding company operations. The payments of dividends or other statutorily permissible distributions from our operating companies are subject to the laws and regulations applicable to each jurisdiction, as well as the need to maintain capital levels adequate to support the insurance and reinsurance operations, including financial strength ratings issued by independent rating agencies, which are discussed below. During 2007, we were able to meet all of our obligations, including the payment of dividends declared on our Ordinary Shares and Preferred Shares, with our net cash flows and dividends received. Should the need arise, we generally have access to the capital markets and other available credit facilities. We assess which subsidiaries to draw dividends from based on a number of factors. Considerations such as regulatory and legal restrictions as well as the subsidiarys financial condition are paramount to the dividend decision. The legal restrictions on the payment of dividends from retained earnings by our Bermuda subsidiaries are currently satisfied by the share capital and additional paid in capital of each of the Bermuda subsidiaries. In 2007, ACE Bermuda declared and paid 73 Table of Contents dividends of $168 million. During 2006, ACE Bermuda and ACE Tempest Life Reinsurance declared and paid dividends of $491 million and $125 million, respectively. We expect that a majority of our cash inflows in 2008 will be from our Bermuda subsidiaries. The payment of any dividends from ACE Global Markets or its subsidiaries is subject to applicable U.K. insurance laws and regulations. In addition, the release of funds by Syndicate 2488 to subsidiaries of ACE Global Markets is subject to regulations promulgated by the Society of Lloyds. ACE INAs U.S. insurance subsidiaries may pay dividends, without prior regulatory approval, subject to restrictions set out in state law of the subsidiarys domicile (or, if applicable, commercial domicile). ACE INAs international subsidiaries are also subject to insurance laws and regulations particular to the countries in which the subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations sometimes include restrictions that limit the amount of dividends payable without prior approval of regulatory insurance authorities. ACE Limited did not receive any dividends from ACE Global Markets or ACE INA in 2007 and 2006. The debt issued by ACE INA to provide partial financing for the ACE INA acquisition and for other operating needs is serviced by statutorily permissible distributions by ACE INAs insurance subsidiaries to ACE INA as well as other group resources. Our consolidated sources of funds consist primarily of net premiums written, net investment income, and proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. Funds are used primarily to pay claims, operating expenses, and dividends and to service debt and purchase investments. After satisfying our cash requirements, excess cash flows from these underwriting and investing activities are invested. Our insurance and reinsurance operations provide liquidity in that premiums are received in advance, sometimes substantially in advance, of the time claims are paid. Generally, cash flows are affected by claim payments that, due to the nature of our operations, may be comprised of large loss payments on a limited number of claims and which can fluctuate significantly from period to period. The irregular timing of these loss payments can create significant variations in cash flows from operations between periods. Refer to Contractual Obligations and Commitments for our estimate for future claim payments by period. Sources of liquidity include cash from operations, routine sales of investments, and financing arrangements. The following is a discussion of our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. Our consolidated net cash flows from operating activities were $4.7 billion in 2007, compared with $4.1 billion in 2006. These amounts reflect net income for each period, adjusted for non cash items and changes in working capital. Net income increased to $2.6 billion in 2007, compared with $2.3 billion in 2006. For 2007, significant adjustments included increases in unpaid losses and loss expenses and unearned premiums of $838 million due to growth in our A&H line and a decrease in reinsurance recoverable of $343 million. Net cash flows from operating activities in 2006 were negatively impacted by increased catastrophe loss payments. Our consolidated net cash flows used for investing activities were $4.5 billion in 2007, compared with $3.8 billion in 2006. For the indicated periods, net cash flows used for investing activities were related principally to net purchases of fixed maturities. The 2006 year included the impact of the sale of the run off companies which reduced cash and investments by approximately $500 million. Our consolidated net cash flows used for financing activities were $253 million in 2007, compared with $284 million in 2006. Net cash flows used for financing activities in 2007 were primarily comprised of dividends paid on Ordinary Shares, partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of options for Ordinary Shares. Both internal and external forces influence our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Claim settlements, premium levels, and investment returns may be impacted by changing rates of inflation and other economic conditions. In many cases, significant periods of time, ranging up to several years or more, may lapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us, and the settlement of the liability for that loss. We believe that our cash balances, cash flow from operations, routine sales of investments, and the liquidity provided by our credit facilities, as discussed below, are adequate to meet expected cash requirements. As discussed under Long term Debt, below, we have issued debt and secured lender commitments totaling approximately $750 million in connection with our agreement to purchase Combined. We expect the balance of the approximately $2.4 billion purchase price ($1.65 billion) to be funded using internally generated resources. In order to enhance cash management efficiency during periods of short term timing mismatches between expected inflows and outflows of cash by currency, in 2006, we entered into agreements with a bank provider to implement two international multi currency notional cash pooling programs. In each program, participating ACE entities establish deposit accounts in different currencies with the bank provider and each day the credit or debit balances in every account are notionally translated into a single currency (U.S. dollars) and then notionally pooled. The bank extends overdraft credit to any participating ACE entity as needed, provided that the overall notionally pooled balance of all accounts in each pool at the end 74 Table of Contents of each day is at least zero. Actual cash balances are not physically converted and are not co mingled between legal entities. ACE entities may incur overdraft balances as a means to address short term timing mismatches, and any overdraft balances incurred under this program by an ACE entity would be guaranteed by ACE Limited (up to $150 million in the aggregate). The dedicated credit facility previously available to ACE Limited was cancelled in November 2007, following the completion of the renewed revolving credit facility discussed below, which was amended to allow same day draw downs for both programs. ACE Limited and its subsidiaries are assigned debt and financial strength (insurance) ratings from internationally recognized rating agencies, including S&P, A.M. Best, Moodys Investors Service, and Fitch. The ratings issued on our companies by these agencies are announced publicly and are available directly from the agencies. Our Internet site, www.acelimited.com, also contains some information about our ratings, which can be found under the Investor Information tab. Financial strength ratings reflect the rating agencies opinions of a companys claims paying ability. Independent ratings are one of the important factors that establish our competitive position in the insurance markets. The rating agencies consider many factors in determining the financial strength rating of an insurance company, including the relative level of statutory surplus necessary to support the business operations of the company. These ratings are based upon factors relevant to policyholders, agents, and intermediaries and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold securities. Debt ratings apply to short term and long term debt as well as preferred stock. These ratings are assessments of the likelihood that we will make timely payments of principal, interest, and preferred stock dividends. It is possible that, in the future, one or more of the rating agencies may reduce our existing ratings. If one or more of our ratings were downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs and our ability to access the capital markets could be impacted. In addition, our insurance and reinsurance operations could be adversely impacted by a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, including a possible reduction in demand for our products in certain markets. Capital Resources Capital resources consist of funds deployed, or available to be deployed, to support our business operations. The following table summarizes the components of our capital resources at December 31, 2007 and 2006. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 Short term debt $ 372 $ 578 Long term debt 1,811 1,560 Total debt 2,183 2,138 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Preferred Shares 557 557 Ordinary shareholders equity 16,120 13,721 Total shareholders equity 16,677 14,278 Total capitalization $ 19,169 $ 16,725 Ratio of debt to total capitalization 11.4% 12.8% Ratio of debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization 13.0% 14.6% We believe our financial strength provides us with the flexibility and capacity to obtain funds externally through debt or equity financing on both a short term and long term basis. Our ability to access the capital markets is dependent on, among other things, market conditions and our perceived financial strength. We have accessed both the debt and equity markets from time to time. Short term Debt Short term debt at December 31, 2007, consisted of AUD $100 million ($87 million) of 7.81 percent senior notes due December 2008, $250 million in aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes due October 2008 (classified under long term debt at December 31, 2006) and $35 million owed to brokers under a securities repurchase agreement. In April 2007, we repaid $500 million of indebtedness. During 2007, we executed a securities repurchase agreement with a counterparty. Under this repurchase agreement, we agreed to sell securities and repurchase them at a date in the future for a predetermined price. 75 Table of Contents Long term Debt Our total long term debt of $1.8 billion is described in detail in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. In February 2007, we issued, at a small discount, $500 million of 5.7 percent senior notes due 2017. We used the net proceeds from this issuance together with available cash to repay $500 million of indebtedness which matured in April 2007 (classified as short term debt at December 31, 2006). In connection with our agreement to purchase Combined, in February 2008, we issued, at a slight discount, $300 million of 5.8 percent notes that mature in 2018. We have lender commitments for us to borrow $450 million in a five year private transaction with a bank syndicate at a fixed rate of approximately 4.15 percent. The borrowing is contingent on the closing of the acquisition of Combined. We plan to use the net proceeds from both the bank loan and public issuance to pay a portion of the purchase price of Combined. The following instruments have specific collateral triggers. In 1998, ACE US Holdings issued $250 million of unsecured senior notes that mature October 2008. In December 1999, ACE INA issued $300 million of unsecured subordinated notes that mature December 2009; we repaid $100 million of this outstanding amount during 2002. We have a $450 million credit default swap in place that has the economic effect of reducing our cost of borrowing associated with these two issuances. The minimum collateral in connection with the credit default swap is $158 million. The actual collateral can be higher depending on the credit quality of securities pledged. Under these transactions, we would be required to provide collateral of $450 million if S&P downgraded our debt rating to BB+ or lower or downgraded ACE Bermudas financial strength rating to BBB or lower. Although there can be no assurance, we believe it is unlikely that either of these two events will occur. In the event that we terminate either of the swaps prematurely, we would be liable for certain transaction costs. The counter party in each swap is a highly rated major financial institution and management does not anticipate non performance. Trust Preferred Securities The securities outstanding consist of $300 million of trust preferred securities due 2030, issued by a special purpose entity (a trust) that is wholly owned by us. The sole assets of the special purpose entities are debt instruments issued by one or more of our subsidiaries. The special purpose entity looks to payments on the debt instruments to make payments on the preferred securities. We have guaranteed the payments on these debt instruments. The trustees of the trust include one or more of our officers and at least one independent trustee, such as a trust company. Our officers serving as trustees of the trust do not receive any compensation or other remuneration for their services in such capacity. The full $309 million of outstanding trust preferred securities (calculated as $300 million as discussed above plus our equity share of the trust) is shown on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability. Additional information with respect to the trust preferred securities is contained in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. Ordinary Shares Total shareholders equity increased $2.4 billion in 2007, primarily due to net income of $2.6 billion which was partially offset by dividends declared. Our ratios of debt to total capitalization and debt plus trust preferred securities to total capitalization have decreased due to the increase in shareholders equity and stable debt and trust preferred securities. As part of our capital management program, in November 2001, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of any ACE issued debt or capital securities including Ordinary Shares, up to $250 million. At December 31, 2007, this authorization had not been utilized. We generally maintain shelf capacity at all times in order to allow capital market access for refinancing as well as for unforeseen capital needs. Our unlimited shelf registration expires in December 2008. On January 12, 2007, and April 13, 2007, we paid dividends of 25 cents per ordinary share to shareholders of record on December 29, 2006, and March 30, 2007, respectively. On July 13, 2007, October 12, 2007, and January 11, 2008, we paid dividends of 27 cents per share to shareholders of record on June 29, 2007, September 30, 2007, and December 31, 2007, respectively. We have paid dividends each quarter since we became a public company in 1993. However, the declaration, payment, and value of future dividends on ordinary shares is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our profits, financial requirements, and other factors including legal restrictions on the payment of dividends and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. Dividends on the preferred shares are payable quarterly when, and if, declared by our Board of Directors, in arrears on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year. We paid dividends of $4.875 per preferred share on March 1, 2007, June 1, 2007, September 1, 2007, and 76 Table of Contents December 1, 2007, to shareholders of record on February 28, 2007, May 31, 2007, August 31, 2007, and November 30, 2007, respectively. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The table below shows our contractual obligations and commitments including our payments due by period at December 31, 2007. Payments Due By Period (in millions of U.S. dollars) Total Less than 1Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years After 5Years Payment amounts determinable from the respective contracts Deposit liabilities $ 351 $ 52 $ 82 $ 67 $ 150 Purchase obligations 380 58 175 103 44 Limited partnerships funding commitments 606 291 315 Operating leases 339 61 105 76 97 Short term debt 372 372 Long term debt 1,811 400 1,411 Trust preferred securities 309 309 Interest on debt obligations 1,941 157 267 233 1,284 Total obligations in which payment amounts are determinable from the respective contracts 6,109 991 1,344 479 3,295 Payment amounts not determinable from the respective contracts Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts 37,112 9,037 10,107 5,519 12,449 Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits 2,263 120 265 248 1,630 Total contractual obligations and commitments $ 45,484 $ 10,148 $ 11,716 $ 6,246 $ 17,374 The above table excludes the following items: Pension Obligations: Minimum funding requirements for our pension obligations are immaterial over the next year. Subsequent funding commitments are apt to vary due to many factors and are difficult to estimate at this time. Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Preferred Shares: Our Preferred Shares, issued in 2003, have no fixed repayment terms. We may redeem the Preferred Shares at any time after May 30, 2008, at a redemption value of $25 per depository share (each of which represent one tenth of one Preferred Share) or at any time under certain limited circumstances. Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits are recorded in accordance with issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). The FIN 48 liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $157 million at December 31, 2007. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate for the timing of cash settlement with respect to these liabilities. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for more information. We have no other significant contractual obligations or commitments not reflected in the table above. Deposit liabilities Deposit liabilities include reinsurance deposit liabilities of $325 million and $311 million and contract holder deposit funds of $26 million and $24 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The reinsurance deposit liabilities arise from contracts we sold for which there is not a significant transfer of risk. At contract inception, the deposit liability is equal to net cash we received. An accretion rate is established based on actuarial estimates whereby the deposit liability is increased to the estimated amount payable over the term of the contract. The deposit accretion rate is the rate of return required to fund expected future payment obligations. We periodically reassess the estimated ultimate liability and related expected rate of return. Any resulting changes to the amount of the deposit liability are reflected as an adjustment to earnings to reflect the cumulative effect of the period the contract has been in force, and by an adjustment to the future accretion rate of the liability over the remaining estimated contract term. 77 Table of Contents Additional information with respect to deposit liabilities is contained in Note 2 k) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8. Purchase obligations We are party to enforceable and legally binding agreements to purchase certain services. Purchase obligations in the table primarily comprise audit fees and agreements with vendors to purchase system software administration and maintenance services. Limited partnerships funding commitments In connection with our investments in limited partnerships, we have commitments that may require funding of up to $606 million over the next several years. The timing of the payment of these commitments is uncertain and will differ from our estimated timing in the table. Operating lease commitments We lease office space in most countries in which we operate under operating leases that expire at various dates through December 2033. We renew and enter into new leases in the ordinary course of business as required. Estimated gross loss payments under insurance and reinsurance contracts We are obligated to pay claims under insurance and reinsurance contracts for specified loss events covered under those contracts. Such loss payments represent our most significant future payment obligation as a P&C insurance and reinsurance company. In contrast to other contractual obligations, cash payments are not determinable from the terms specified within the contract. For example, we do not ultimately make a payment to our counterparty for many insurance and reinsurance contracts (i.e., when a loss event has not occurred) and if a payment is to be made, the amount and timing cannot be determined from the contract. In the table above, we estimate payments by period relating to our gross liability for unpaid losses and loss expenses included in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007, and do not take reinsurance recoverables into account. These estimated loss payments are inherently uncertain and the amount and timing of actual loss payments are likely to differ from these estimates and the differences could be material. Given the numerous factors and assumptions involved in both estimates of loss and loss expense reserves and related estimates as to the timing of future loss and loss expense payments in the table above, differences between actual and estimated loss payments will not necessarily indicate a commensurate change in ultimate loss estimates. Estimated payments for future life and annuity policy benefits We establish reserves for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts including, but not limited to, guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDBs) and GMIBs. The amounts in the table are gross of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts. The liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet is discounted and, with respect to GMIB reinsurance, reflected net of fees or premiums due from the underlying contracts, and with respect to GMDB reinsurance, does not consider benefit payments related to future fees or premiums not recognized through the balance sheet date. Accordingly, the estimated amounts in the table exceed the liability for future policy benefits for life and annuity contracts presented in our balance sheet. Payment amounts related to these reserves must be estimated and are not determinable from the contract. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing and amount of these payments, actual results could materially differ from the estimates in the table. Credit Facilities As our Bermuda subsidiaries are not admitted insurers and reinsurers in the U.S., the terms of certain U.S. insurance and reinsurance contracts require them to provide LOCs to clients. In addition, ACE Global Markets is required to satisfy certain U.S. regulatory trust fund requirements which can be met by the issuance of LOCs. LOCs may also be used for general corporate purposes and for funds at Lloyds. 78 Table of Contents The following table shows our credit facilities by credit line, usage, expiry date, and purpose at December 31, 2007. (in millions of U.S. dollars) Credit Line1 Usage Expiry Date Unsecured Liquidity Facilities ACE Limited2 $ 500 $ 64 Nov. 2012 Other3 66 66 Various Unsecured Operational LOC Facilities ACE Limited 1,000 852 Nov. 2012 Unsecured Capital Facilities ACE Limited4 595 409 Dec. 2013 Total $ 2,161 $ 1,391 (1) Certain facilities are guaranteed by operating subsidiaries and or ACE Limited. (2) May also be used for LOCs. (3) These facilities are issued in the name of ACE European Group Limited, Lloyds Syndicate 2488, and Century Indemnity Reinsurance Company. (4) Supports ACE Global Markets underwriting capacity for Lloyds Syndicate 2488. In November 2007, we entered into a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility expiring in November 2012. This facility is available for general corporate purposes and the issuance of LOCs and replaced the existing $600 million revolving credit facility. On the effective date of the new revolving credit facility, all outstanding LOCs issued under the replaced facility were deemed to have been issued under the new revolving credit facility and the replaced facility terminated. In November 2007, we entered into a $1 billion unsecured operational LOC facility expiring in November 2012. This facility replaced two LOC facilities permitting up to $1.5 billion of LOCs. On the effective date of the new LOC facility, all outstanding LOCs issued under the replaced facilities were deemed to have been issued under the new LOC facility and the replaced facilities terminated. In June 2007, Syndicate 2488 reduced the LOC balance supporting its funds at Lloyds in line with the requirements promulgated by Lloyds. The associated facility amount was also reduced to &pound;300 million. In November 2007, we gained approval from our bank group to extend the term of the facility by one year to satisfy Syndicate 2488s funding requirements through 2010. LOCs issued under this facility will expire no earlier than December 2013. With the exception of the LOC facilities noted under Other, the facilities in the table above require that we maintain certain covenants, all of which have been met at December 31, 2007. These covenants include (but are not limited to): (i) Maintenance of a minimum consolidated net worth in an amount not less than the Minimum Amount. For the purpose of this calculation, the Minimum Amount is an amount equal to the sum of the base amount (currently $9.6 billion) plus 25 percent of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter, ending after the date on which the current base amount became effective, plus 50 percent of any increase in consolidated net worth during the same period, attributable to the issuance of Ordinary and Preferred Shares. The Minimum Amount is subject to an annual reset provision. (ii) Maintenance of a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of not greater than 0.35 to 1. Under this covenant, debt does not include trust preferred securities or mezzanine equity, except where the ratio of the sum of trust preferred securities and mezzanine equity to total capitalization is greater than 15 percent. In this circumstance, the amount greater than 15 percent would be included in the debt to total capitalization ratio. At December 31, 2007, (a) the minimum consolidated net worth requirement under the covenant described in (i) above was $10.2 billion and our actual consolidated net worth as calculated under that covenant was $16.1 billion and (b) our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 0.11 to 1. In addition to these covenants, the ACE Global Markets capital facility requires that collateral be posted if the financial strength rating of ACE falls to S&P BBB+ or lower. Our failure to comply with the covenants under any credit facility would, subject to grace periods in the case of certain covenants, result in an event of default. This could require us to repay any outstanding borrowings or to cash collateralize LOCs under such facility. A failure by ACE Limited (or any of its subsidiaries) to pay an obligation due for an amount exceeding $50 million would result in an event of default under all of the facilities described above. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 r) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Item 8, for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 79 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Market Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. We are exposed to potential losses from various market risks including changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Further, through the writings of certain products such as credit derivatives (through our approximately 24 percent ownership of Assured Guaranty Ltd.) and GMIB and GMDB products, we are exposed to deterioration in the credit markets, decreases in interest rates, and declines in the equity markets. Our investment portfolio consists of both fixed income and equity securities, denominated in both U.S. dollars and foreign currencies, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates, equity prices, and foreign currency exchange rates. The majority of our fixed income and all of our equity securities are classified as available for sale and, as such, changes in interest rates, equity prices, or foreign currency exchange rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Nevertheless, changes in interest rates and equity prices affect consolidated net income when, and if, a security is sold or impaired. From time to time, we also use investment derivative instruments such as futures, options, swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage the duration of our investment portfolio and foreign currency exposures and also to obtain exposure to a particular financial market. In addition, as part of our investing activity, we purchase to be announced mortgage backed securities (TBAs). These instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are sensitive to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity security prices. Changes in the fair value of TBAs are included in net realized gains (losses) and therefore have an immediate effect on both our net income and shareholders equity. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, our notional exposure to investment derivative instruments was $15 billion. We seek to mitigate market risk using a number of techniques, including maintaining and managing the assets and liabilities of our international operations consistent with the foreign currencies of the underlying insurance and reinsurance businesses, thereby limiting exchange rate risk to net assets denominated in foreign currencies. The following is a discussion of our primary market risk exposures at December 31, 2007. Our policies to address these risks in 2007 were not materially different from 2006. We do not currently anticipate significant changes in our primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. Interest rate risk fixed income portfolio and debt obligations Our fixed income portfolio and debt obligations have exposure to interest rate risk. Changes in investment values attributable to interest rate changes are mitigated by corresponding and partially offsetting changes in the economic value of our insurance reserves and debt obligations. We monitor this exposure through periodic reviews of our asset and liability positions. The following table shows the impact on the market value of our fixed income portfolio of an increase in interest rates of 100 bps applied instantly across the yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario) at December 31, 2007 and 2006. (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 Fair value of fixed income portfolio $ 38,830 $ 34,011 Pre tax impact of 100 bps increase in interest rates $ 1,281 $ 1,062 Percentage of total fixed income portfolio at fair value 3.3% 3.1% Changes in interest rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Although our debt, Preferred Shares, and trust preferred securities (collectively referred to as debt obligations) are reported at amortized value and not adjusted for fair value changes, changes in interest rates could have a material impact on their fair value, albeit there is no immediate impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table shows the impact on the market value of our debt obligations of a decrease in interest rates of 100 bps applied instantly across the yield curve (an immediate time horizon was used as this presents the worst case scenario) at December 31, 2007 and 2006. 80 Table of Contents (in millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 Fair value of debt obligations $ 3,120 $ 3,219 Impact of 100 bps decrease in interest rates $ 236 $ 257 Percentage of total debt obligations at fair value 7.6% 8.0% Variations in market interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of prepayments due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual results could differ from those reflected in the tables. Equity price risk equity portfolio Our portfolio of equity securities, which we carry on our balance sheet at fair value, has exposure to price risk. This risk is defined as the potential loss in fair value resulting from adverse changes in stock prices. In addition, we attain exposure to the equity markets through the use of derivative instruments, which also have exposure to price risk. Our U.S. equity portfolio is correlated with the S&P 500 index and changes in that index would approximate the impact on our portfolio. Our international equity portfolio has exposure to a broad range of non U.S. equity markets. The following table provides more information on our exposure to equity price risk at December 31, 2007 and 2006. (millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 Fair value of equity securities $ 1,837 $ 1,713 Pre tax impact of 10 percent decline in market prices for equity exposures $ 184 $ 171 Changes in the fair value of our equity portfolio are recorded as unrealized appreciation (depreciation) and are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. Foreign currency exchange rate risk Many of our non U.S. companies maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Therefore, foreign exchange rate risk is generally limited to net assets denominated in those foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. Locally required capital levels are invested in home currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk for us are the British pound sterling, the euro, and the Canadian dollar. The following table provides more information on our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk at December 31, 2007 and 2006. (millions of U.S. dollars) 2007 2006 Fair value of net assets denominated in foreign currencies $ 1,651 $ 1,251 Percentage of fair value of total net assets 9.9% 8.8% Pre tax impact on equity of hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the U.S. dollar $ 150 $ 114 Reinsurance of GMDB and GMIB guarantees Our net income is directly impacted by changes in the reserves calculated in connection with the reinsurance of variable annuity guarantees, primarily GMDB and GMIB. These reserves are calculated in accordance with SOP 03 1 and changes in these reserves are reflected as life and annuity benefit expense, which is included in life underwriting income. In addition, our net income is directly impacted by the change in the fair value of the GMIB liability, which is classified as a derivative according to FAS 133. The fair value liability established for a GMIB reinsurance contract represents the difference between the fair value of the contract and the SOP 03 1 reserves. Changes in the fair value of the GMIB liability, net of associated changes in the calculated SOP 03 1 reserve, are reflected as realized gains or losses. The SOP 03 1 reserve and fair value liability calculations are directly affected by market factors, the most significant of which are equity levels, interest rate levels, and implied equity volatilities. The table below shows the sensitivity, as of December 31, 2007, of the SOP 03 1 reserves and fair value liability associated with the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. Note that the change in the fair value liability includes offsetting changes in the fair value of specific derivative instruments held to partially offset the risk in the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio. These derivatives do not receive hedge accounting treatment. 81 Table of Contents (in millions of U.S. dollars) 10% WorldwideEquity Decrease Impact of 100bp Decrease inInterest Rates Long termEquity ImpliedVolatility Up 2% Increase in SOP 03 1 reserves / Reduction in Life underwriting income $ 52 $ 12 $ Increase in fair value liability 27 122 24 Reduction in net income $ 79 $ 134 $ 24 The table above demonstrates, for example, that a 10 percent decrease in worldwide equities would reduce our life underwriting income by $52 million and cause a net realized loss of $27 million, for a total reduction in net income of $79 million. It should be noted that these sensitivities are not directly additive, because changes in one factor will affect the sensitivity to changes in other factors and also, that the sensitivities do not scale linearly and may be proportionally greater for larger movements in the market factors. The calculation of the SOP 03 1 reserve and fair value liability is based on internal models that include assumptions regarding future policyholder behavior, including withdrawal, annuitization, and asset allocation. These assumptions impact both the absolute level of the SOP 03 1 reserve and fair value liability as well as the sensitivities to changes in market factors shown above. ACE views our variable annuity reinsurance business as having a similar risk profile to that of catastrophe reinsurance, with the probability of long term economic loss relatively small. In the short run, adverse changes in market factors will have an impact on both life underwriting income and net income. When evaluating these risks, we expect to be compensated for taking both the risk of a cumulative long term economic net loss, as well as the short term accounting variations caused by these market movements. Therefore, we evaluate this business in terms of its long term economic risk/reward. The ultimate risk is a long term underperformance of investment returns, which can be exacerbated by a long term reduction in interest rates. In the short run, adverse market movements of the magnitude shown above do not translate immediately into a large increase in paid claims. In addition, while they do increase the probability of suffering long term economic loss, the probability is still small. Following a market downturn, continued market underperformance over a period of five to seven years would eventually result in a higher level of paid claims as policyholders accessed their guarantees through death or annuitization. However, if market conditions improved following a downturn, SOP 03 1 reserves and fair value liability would fall reflecting a decreased likelihood of future claims, which would result in an increase in both life underwriting income and net income. From inception (July 2000) to December 31, 2007, the variable annuity guarantee reinsurance portfolio has produced the following cumulative results, along with returns on equity in excess of 30 percent. Any increase in SOP 03 1 reserves and fair value liability should be taken in context of these results: Net premiums earned: $786 million Claims paid: $32 million SOP 03 1 reserves held at December 31, 2007: $198 million Fair value GMIB liability held at December 31, 2007: $157 million Life underwriting income: $581 million Net Income: $390 million 82 Table of Contents 
 
